ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Standing Committee of the Assembly of the Republic. Let's start our work. [[It was 15 hours and 1 minute.]] First of all, Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha has the floor to give information to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u2	Mr President, very late, everyone. I would like to inform you that Mr. President of the Republic's relocation to Dubai has been cancelled.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us start the agenda, which includes the debate, with the participation of the Minister for Agriculture and the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action, on the drought situation in Portugal. I would like to congratulate the Minister, the Minister and the Members. State Secretaries present here. in this opening period of the debate, which is 10 minutes, the honourable Members. Ministers will intervene by dividing the time between the two and then the parliamentary groups will be able to address their questions to one or the other, or both, as they understand. In order not to waste any more time, we have already spoken to the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u4	Ex. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The drought in Portugal is not conjuncural, it is structural. The Tejo valley traces a line in the middle of our country that determines the distribution of water: south, scarcity and intermittent; north, greater availability, but increasingly rare. This is really our condition and the studies leave us no doubt. Over the past 20 years, rainfall in Portugal and Spain has decreased by around 15 % and is expected to decrease between 10 % and 25 % by the end of the century, and there are even worse scenarios than this one. The adaptation, one of the key words of the Paris Agreement, means the need to acclimatize ourselves. We need to adapt to the new conditions caused by climate change, not the territory that needs to adapt to us. This means living with less rain, less water in dams, less availability in aquifers and more uncertainty in the distribution of rain throughout the year, from seasons and even days. We must therefore be more and more partisan in the use of water. We have to save at home, we have to preserve its sources, we have to use it regularly in agriculture, we have to return in good condition to river courses after use, we have to be able to reuse for purposes that do not require its potability. These are the principles that have guided our action. In order for high quality water to reach our safe house, over 25 years have been invested over several governments over EUR 13 billion, an average of about EUR 500 million per year. Under the PO SEUR ( Operational Programme Sustainability and Efficiency in Resource Use ), to strengthen supply, reduce losses and treat effluents, EUR 560 million of European funds were mobilised to guarantee funding to 940 operations on the Portuguese continent. These investments enabled the construction or remodeling of more than 3300 km of drainage network, 317 ETAR (residual water treatment stations), improving the supply and sanitation service to more than 4, 6 million Portuguese, almost half of the national population. Between 2015 and 2020, approximately 1400 km of rivers and rivers were rehabilitated and invested—they are still EUR 160 million in the water network. The main interventions aimed at protecting and valuing water resources, based on measures to ensure the flow of water lines, minimizing erosion, fillings and floods and also bathing use. This extraordinary effort has enabled us to increase the resilience of supply systems to the rapid changes we witnessed. We can also remember other measures that we have taken for the same purpose: the review of emissions allowances in the water environment, to adapt industrial activity to seasonal water availability; the cleaning of the Tejo river bed in Vila Vellha de Rodão; the investments in strengthening the system of Low Mondego dikes; the strengthening of Alentejo interconnections, leading Alqueva water to more locations and strengthening the security of supply in the area most affected by drought. What about the future? Investments in supply and sanitation will be increased from EUR 875 million in the current framework to more than EUR 1000 million in the next Community support framework. We will have 14 times more funds—from EUR 4 to EUR 57 million—to support the reuse of waste water, giving a decisive impetus to these projects. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, water is circular, by nature. It transforms itself over and over again, constantly regenerating itself in different ways. However, its over-use and degradation impose on us an ecological ceiling and the imperative need to use water in an integrated way, from its territorial management and enhancement to its use in industry and at home. Therefore, a substantial part of the 200 million euros of water efficiency in the Algarve — the country's area most affected by water scarcity — is dedicated to water reuse and loss reduction. The situation is as follows: the first notice has already been issued for the reduction of losses in the urban sector, with the allocation of EUR 14 million, and all other projects are under way. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, to conclude, it is known the hierarchy of uses that we have established for water in a framework of scarcity of this resource. First, and before all the others, there is human consumption and so we set minimum quotas in the albums, limiting other uses in those approaching this safety threshold. The situation has been monitored daily by the Portuguese Environment Agency ( APA ) and in these dams the volume of water is recovering — slowly, but is recovering. We are advised to be cautious and to defend the public good that these limitations remain until the situation in these dams changes. Depending on the rains of this spring, and at the moment the perspective is more optimistic than it was two or three weeks ago, we can modify these measures, either in the sense of its strengthening, or in the sense of its smoothing, according to the evolution of the situation. But one thing is right, the main and most noble use, that of human consumption, is assured for two years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u5	Even in the use of the initial time allocated to the Government, you have the floor for an intervention by the Minister of Agriculture. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon, everyone. We went through a difficult context, still marked by the recovery of the effects of the pandemic and by the increase in production costs, and the drought that engulfs Portugal and Spain has aggravated the instability of the times. The Government therefore monitors the situation at all times. As far as hydro-agricultural trees are concerned, it is important to clarify and clarify that, of the 44 existing, the majority have the guaranteed irrigation campaign provided that the efficient and sustainable use of water is ensured. Only three albums represent critical situations: Bravura, Campillas and Monte da Rocha. Thanks to the connection to Alqueva, Vigia, Odivelas, Roxo and Fonte Serne are not at risk. In fact, I mean, for the first time, Fonte Serne receives water from the Alqueva — a reinforcement that was made through the National Regadios Programme. All these situations are monitored in permanence. Following the meetings of the regional subcommittees and the management of the albums, several measures have been defined, some of which I would like to highlight. In relation to Bravura, the suspension of all uses, except that of the public supply, until the end of March, was decreed to carry out, urgently, the topobametric survey of the flooded area to better know the water area reserved for the so-called "dead volume" and the waterproofing of the Alvor water perimeter channel, for the reduction of losses. As regards Campillas, the activation of a contingency plan for the drought situation was decreed, ensuring the public supply for two years and the water of permanent crops. And, in relation to Monte da Rocha, it was decreed to strengthen water availability from Alqueva by the water block, but also the connection of Alqueva to this album through the project of the Messejana hydraulic circuit provided for in the National Regadios Program, in the third notice in competition. in this context, I signed yesterday even the order through which we recognize the existence of a severe and extreme drought situation and that will allow to operationalize measures mitigating the effect of drought, as well as trigger a set of derogations to the commitments made by farmers in the context of direct and surface aid. In addition, several measures are already being implemented to mitigate the negative effects of drought on agricultural activity. The situation of the Algarve is the one that worries us the most, so the Water Efficiency Plan is already being implemented in that region. As far as agriculture is concerned, around EUR 17 million is being invested within the framework of the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ), to which approximately EUR 1 million from the Rural Development Programme is being added, and I want to highlight the recovery of the hole in Light of Tavira, the repair of the bottom discharge of the Bravura dam, the modernisation of the distribution network of the Alvor hydro-agricultural use and the construction of the link of the funcho adductor to the hydro-agricultural use of Silves, Lagoa and Portimão. At the same time, and together with Spain, we have presented to the European Commission a package of interventions to support Iberian farmers, of which I would like to highlight the strengthening of the percentage of advances on payments to be made in October, in the context of direct aid and on-the-spot measures for rural development, to allow a new, temporary and exceptional measure, using rural development funds, to support the income of farmers and livestock producers affected. However, and because climate change is increasingly recurrent extreme phenomena, it is necessary to bet on structural policies framed in a global strategy. Therefore, it was and is so important the National Regadios Programme, that with an investment of about 560 million euros, it would create more resilience to the effects of climate change by modernizing existing systems. Along with the strengthening of collective, efficient and sustainable public recreation, we launched support for the construction of private tanks, allowing farmers to increase their water storage capacity, and, in order to define the next stage of a national irrigation programme, we commissioned a study to support the lifting of the potential of public initiative recreation, with the horizon of a decade. in this context, investments are planned at around 750 million euros, half to continue to modernize existing systems and both so that we can build new systems whenever this is justified. Convinced that it is important to ensure a fair and inclusive transition, without disruptive effects, we have concluded the agreement of the CAP (common agricultural policy), one of the most ambitious of recent decades. The proposal of the National Strategic Plan presented to the Commission materializes this ambition of commitment with Portuguese, with farmers, in particular through the creation of ecological regimes and agri-environmental measures that want to promote soil improvement, sustainable use of resources — including water, one of our largest assets — support for green investment, water system precision technology, collective irrigation and also the new instrument, the Rural Emergency Fund.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u7	I ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u8	I shall conclude, Mr President. We want to continue to bet on knowledge, technology, and that is why under the PRR we have already opened notices that mobilise 400 companies to give effective responses to adaptation to climate change. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u9	You now have the floor to begin the debate and ask questions from the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u10	Ex. Mr. President, Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the subject brought to you by the honourable Members. Ministers to this House, the drought, in addition to being very serious, can have even more profound and devastating consequences than in the past, in other meteorological droughts. From that point on, because, according to data from meteorology, there are already areas in the country, especially in the south, where the permanent ripening point has been reached. In fact, analyzing last February, the lack of water in the countryside, dams and plant vegetative development was visible. It is not surprising, therefore, that the IPMA ( Portuguese Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere ) announced that 91 % of the territory was in severe and extreme drought, with an average monthly value of only 7 % of the average precipitation value between 1971 and 2000. Moreover, in the various numerical models, drought is expected to worsen over the next few months throughout the country, including in the northernmost regions. There is therefore an unpublished challenge in agricultural terms and not only because at the moment the seriousness of the drought is aggravating to coincide with the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, two of the main cereal-producing countries, with and without grain, suppliers of the European Union. So, I'd say we're facing an almost perfect storm. The lack of raw materials, such as cereals and meat, from these countries due to economic blockades and sanctions, the escalation of prices of production factors and the reduction of agricultural production due to lack of water will lead to a very strong pressure on agricultural prices and, who knows, to a shortage as has not been seen in Europe in the past. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, the PSD does not, as it has never had, have a guilty stance. However, it cannot fail to express the enormous concern about the public policy responses announced and so far taken by the Government for the giant drought problem. On the measures already announced, I have three very specific questions. What is the overall amount available for the measures already announced by the Minister for Agriculture? Who are the main agents eligible for the defined support? And when such support comes into force, that is, when they will be available to farmers, especially to those most penalized, what is the dramatic case with whom they have animals? Mr Minister, the PSD understands that the problem in agriculture is taking on disaster proportions and, as such, the immediate action of public policy with compensation and financial support is urgent. Contrary to what Mr Capoulas Santos said a few days ago, the situation is not merely a matter of conjuncturality and poses real dangers for the general population. It is therefore not possible to wait for administrative or formal decisions. It is necessary for the current Executive to find measures and implement them with the greatest urgency. I would also like to take this opportunity to ask the Minister of Agriculture about the support measures to be drawn up for exporting companies to Russia, whose market is closed. Finally, I must regret that during the last six years of socialist governance the Ministry of Agriculture has not planned a water management in Portugal. Let us hope that political will will will emerge now in the new government — that has not existed so far! — to take on this challenge, by valuing agriculture in the very value of the interior. Let us hope that the PRR and the next Community funds will be an opportunity to draw up a true water policy in Portugal, building, for example, a motorway of water that will allow it to be transferred from north to south and inland. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u11	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister for Agriculture.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your questions and would like to start by saying that joining a pandemic — which has not yet left us — came a drought and now a crisis like the one we are living in Europe. In fact, the common agricultural policy was created many years ago, precisely for Europe to face a post-war war in which it did not have the capacity to feed its citizens. This was one of the first projects, if it wasn't even the first, that united us all around the need to feed a population that needed to leave a post-war era. As we have done in the past, we will continue to do so now and in the future. Yesterday, we had a meeting of the Council of Ministers for Agriculture of the Member States and we asked the Commission to speed up all the measures it had to present until Monday, acting in regulatory terms in the Common Market Organisation, and to let each of the Member States take exceptional and temporary measures to deal with the impacts, not only of drought — as we had already requested in the last Council of Ministers — as well as of the situation in which we are now. So we want to get to farmers with concrete measures, with concrete values, and we know who we want to get to. We know that those who are most affected with this drought are the livestock sector, because the autumn/winter crops have still been made, but have not developed, the meadows have not grown and the pasture is made more difficult, which leads to animals having to be fed with food. In the last year, the price of rations increased by 53 % and that of fertilizers 166 %, so we have to have answers. But that was not only in Portugal, it was throughout Europe. We therefore need a collective response from the European Union in order to help create conditions that guarantee food sovereignty, food supply throughout Europe. It is in this sense that we are working and we expect, at all times, as we have always done, to say 'how', 'how' and 'for whom', we are sure that we will always follow this up together with our partners in Europe and with the best follow-up responses to the sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u13	Mr Luís Leite Ramos has the floor to ask questions from the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Minister of Agriculture, before such concrete and objective questions as to who and when the support your Ministry and Government have undertaken to allocate, the Minister simply ignored all the questions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u15	It's true! You don't understand...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u16	... ignored the full clarification of the questions asked by the PSD Parliamentary Group. Be registered. Of course, the Government does not intend to clarify these doubts nor to clarify the country, but we continue to wait and the Minister still has time to do so. So if I wanted to do this next, it would be a good service to Parliament and the country. Mr Environment Minister, I cannot help but follow up when you simply say that the drought has come to stay. It's predictable! From what we know about climate change and the transformations that are taking place in the country and on the planet, regarding the occurrence of extreme climate events and, above all, a substantial increase in the impact of drought, this is more than predictable. Moreover, as has already been reiterated, this situation of having almost 90 % of the country in severe or extreme drought is a perfectly predictable and expected phenomenon. In view of this predictability, we are surprised that the government has dealt with this crisis in a very slow manner. Finally, we know that the country has been facing this crisis since the end of November, that the measures are adhoc and, above all, that there are a set of provisions that reflect a navigation in sight, a sudden, a ability to go and remedy the situation, but at the same time a structural lack of planning. The questions I would like to ask you are very simple. In view of this feeling that the country has that we are browsing in sight, improvising and somehow reacting, because we did not at the right time what we had to do, I ask you, Minister, what has been the role of the Standing Committee on Prevention, Monitoring and Monitoring of the Effects of Dryness in the management of this crisis. We know that the Commission met in February, but the last meeting record that existed until recently on the APA website was 2019. Question : From 2019 this Commission did not meet, did it not work, did it not prepare? Another issue, Minister, concerns the Prevention, Monitoring and Contingency Plan for Dry Situations. Is this Plan updated today or at the end of last year? Is it operational? Has the government used it to make decisions, to implement measures? If so, on what basis? The third question has to do with efficiency. The Minister has repeated — and we can no longer agree with your concern! — that much of the measures and strategies to combat the problem go through more efficient use of this resource, but when we look at the National Programme for the Effective Use of Water (UNEP) in 2020, we find that it has not been revised. Is that true, Minister? Is it true that the plan isn't revised? Oh, my God! When we look at PRR investments, we see that only the Algarve is that it has a regional water efficiency plan. What about the rest of the country? When are we going to have water efficiency plans for the other regions? Or does the drought just touch the Algarve? Oh, my God! Why is it that, within the framework of the RPP or other funds, the Government has not decided to implement and to draw up plans of the same nature? Are we going to have similar plans in the other regions of the country? In closing the questions on support, he announced that he would provide EUR 5 million from the Environment Fund for awareness-raising campaigns and contingency solutions that might be necessary. Our question, Minister — I would like you to answer me and not do as the Minister for Agriculture — is the following: in concrete terms, this will translate into exactly what? What are these solutions? What are the beneficiaries? Are they really to apply? I remind the Minister that in 2018 his Ministry approved a package of short-term actions, and I quote « aiming to strengthen the storage of water in 10 albums », having made available EUR 3, 5 million for this measure. However, according to the information we have of 2019, nothing has been done. Has anything been done in this area, Minister? Has the government prepared and in any way sought to implement the measures necessary to combat this drought crisis? Even to conclude, Minister, we know that the drought has come to stay and that the country has to be prepared to face these increasingly critical situations, but we do not go there with announcements and promises. We need to anticipate, we need to plan, we need to prepare the country, over time, to deal with the drought because, of course, the economy and the Portuguese will have very difficult days ahead to win. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u17	To reply, Mr President, the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u18	Mr President, Mr Leite Ramos, I begin with the end of his speech, so that you do not end with the question you have considered that requires more concrete answers. Mr President, when, about three years ago, we decided to concentrate a set of funds from the Environment Fund on supporting emergency solutions, the only ones that were not implemented had to do with cleaning up the funds from the trees, and for a very simple reason: when we started this task it rained a lot and there was no need. Financed by these same words, I remember, for example, the lifting of the Pretarouca dam, which became more water, and the support of the tank trucks, especially in the Alentejo and, in a general way, in which there was a need to take water to places where the systems, being isolated, had no redundancy. These EUR 5 million will be managed by APA. I don't know exactly where they're going to be applied, but I know they're going to be for awareness campaigns and to look for alternative sources, really, looking for old public origins. I give you the concrete example of Barlavanto Algarvio and the dam of Bravura, which is exclusively reserved for human consumption and which has water for two years. Therefore, these activities will be financed by these EUR 5 million. Mr President, the Standing Commission of the Drought has met regularly, and in more than six years I have been a Minister, there has been only one year in which there has been no drought in 2021. In fact, over the past year—and when I say 'year' I mean, as you well know, the period between October 2020 and October 2021, because this is the case with the hydrological year—there was no need to act on it. Mr President, I cannot deny that much of the management is done year by year and with the information available to us. Is there a lot of basic measures? They are! I already noticed them. But in fact, there are things that are only decided every year, and it is possible to decide every year because we have much more information and knowledge than we had today. Acting in anticipation, in some things, is inhibiting uses that can eventually be done. For us it is very clear that the most important thing is to ensure human consumption. Regardless of which is the album – and the albums supply about 80 % of human consumption in Portugal — having a reserve for two years without a drop of rain is even preventing, planning and deciding in advance. In fact, there are uses with which it is not worth finishing on Monday, for the simple pleasure of having the album a little bit more full, if they can extend until the next Saturday, as long as it is guaranteed—and it is! — the same water supply. Algarve was the first region in the country to have a water efficiency plan. It's done! Alentejo's almost done. In the Alentejo it was already designed, and with the possibility of being financed — and my colleague for agriculture has already spoken about it — a set of links from Alqueva and it was, in fact, necessary for the Algarve to make this greater concentration of money in the prospect of defending that same territory in the face of drought. But always for the purpose, and now I am quoting you, quoting me, if you allow me to do so in this way, to ensure that there will be no less water, because it is absolutely illusory to think that we will have more water. Because the rain is less in the Algarve what do we have to do? Firstly, and above all, increase efficiency. I gave up to the example of EUR 14 million already for home networks and a value greater than that — I can give it to you if you want! — for agriculture and for the deeper collection of water in the Odeleite Album and a new catch in Pomarão, two major investments. For what? To put water in the Odeleite / Beliche system, because there are no barriers to being empty, I need water in the dams that exist, to me and I think that to everyone. Therefore, it is essential to have this new uptake that has a very large advantage: it may not be used, it does not require continuity in its use. It can only be used, for example, from November to April, when there is usually greater water availability, and so in fact this great advantage. The other option is the desalinizer whose environmental impact study is now starting. Mr President, we have even more knowledge every year, but there are things we do every year. For example, in October, we actually proceed by intentionally lowering the water level in dams. Look, if we hadn't done it two years ago in Aguieira and in Riva, what would have happened in Lower Mondego? We need this ability to fit and precisely because we need this ability to fit and because last October was as rainy as it is usual we did what was common to do. We were soon surprised in November, but this is absolutely unpredictable. In fact, in November it hardly rained in Portugal, in December it rained a little more and in January we had again numbers close to zero. However, we have more and more fundamental solutions that pass through knowledge, not denying it, which is every year and every hydrological cycle that we take the right measures, otherwise it is « perish overnight». And "dead on the eve" means inhibiting uses that go back very naturally from the questions that your banker has asked. That is why we have the right plan knowing that we will have less and less water and that we cannot have the illusion of multiplying uses that may require the same water that we will not have in the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u19	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor to speak and ask questions by the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u20	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I will divide my speech into two parts, at two different times, and present a question to the Minister and then another question to the Minister. With regard to what the Minister has just said, we must be prepared to have less water in the future, I believe that this truth is unattainable. It follows from the facts, from all available scientific data, from the climate change panel, because scientists have been presenting this indication in their reports for years, and it is also evident from the same line of reasoning: in Europe, it is in the Mediterranean basin and particularly in Portugal and Spain that the effects of droughts will feel more in the future. All that I said and that Mr. Minister just said is not new today, it wasn't new yesterday, it wasn't new yesterday, it wasn't new last year, it wasn't new, even when Mr. Minister arrived at the government. Portugal must be prepared to live with less water, because that is why the future will condemn us. And from this point of view, it is interesting to realize that there are a set of strategic investments and a set of strategic choices that have been protected. And that, yes, is the responsibility of a government that has not been expected in this matter. Let us take concrete examples: in the Algarve we have a wide range of golf courses, exactly in the same place where the country faces the worst drought difficulties. from this amount of golf courses, 40, only two usually use recycled water, i.e. water resulting from waste water treatment. My question is: how is it that, six years after the Minister is in the government, so many years after we know that Portugal had to live with less water, this simple matter, obviously to whom anyone who deals with this subject, has not been duly cautious? And now, the answer to us is that it will be for the future, it will be until 2025. You know if it won't be after that. This is the key question: what did the Minister do during the six years he had to deal with this fundamental issue, one of the fundamental pillars for the response to drought in the Algarve? Secondly, we know that there is news on this subject, which, for example, a parish board in Lisbon will also use waste water to water gardens, to clean public roads. I ask the question once again: how does a country, which is in the 'eye of hurricane' of climate change in Europe and which has a forecast of water reduction, which is not now, already comes from the past, only now sporadicly, until almost as a case of study, do these new uses of water? How come we don't get ready before that? I believe that is the question in which the Minister leads the test and that is the fundamental question I wanted to ask him. There is a second question arising from the relationship with Spain. We know that some of our water resources are transposing the border, as they come from the Spanish space. In particular, the Tejo River has historically in recent years a water shortage problem, because Spain, as is recognized, withdraws, diverts water from the Tejo bed. I ask you, directly, whether the Government has followed this reality, which is even more difficult to deal with in the droughts, whether Spain has complied with the ecological flows, whether Spain is ensuring that Spain is complying with the agreements with Portugal, and if it does not consider that these agreements are also manifestly detrimental to the interests of the Portuguese State.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u21	To reply, Mr. Minister for Environment and Climate Action, João Pedro Matos Fernandes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u22	Mr President, honourable Member, you are absolutely right: Spain uses water. It's normal. The river is born in Spain and Spain uses water from the same river, having Spain much higher water stress than Portugal has. Spain adheres strictly to the Albufeira Convention and goes further because, for example, and this comes from the origin of the convention and is evidence, there is an exception mechanism for when the year is far from what is the average amount of rainfall. However, in these six years Spain has never used this mechanism of exception, that is, even if it could do so, it has always transferred the water that was obliged to transfer to Portugal. Mr President, yes, in fact, we have less water and that is not the consequence of climate change everywhere. We learn from one of your benchmates, and we remember, the expression 'evapotranspiration' and, in fact, there is an increase in temperature there is more evapotranspiration. This happens in the world and even rains more. However, in the Mediterranean basin this does not happen. Mr President, on the Algarve golf courses, I should like to say that by the end of this year, with a work that was missing — more specifically an elevated station to the exit, if I may say so, one of the STARs of Vila Real de Santo António — two more golf courses will become watered with waste water, so there are technical conditions for almost everyone to be watered by waste water. There is no doubt that two if three in which the quota they are obliged to have such a large amount of energy that it was « worse the amendment than the sonnet ». On re-use, Mr President, it has been a long time since the directive allowing the reuse of waste water. In fact, it is even — of all the diplomas in which I remember having participated, at the European Union level — the only one in which there is a condition that some of the countries do not implement this rule. That is, there is a deep wrong reaction — I fully agree with you — about the reuse of waste water in Europe. The countries of northern Europe do not feel this difficulty and find that there are risks to public health here. There isn't. If everything's done with the rule, there's no. In fact, this is a recent reality in Portugal. I remember the case of the Beja STAR, in which the water was prepared to be able to water the fields around there, and in which we saw ourselves afflicted — that is what it is said — to find an agricultural owner who wanted to make the experience with us. We found it and it went so well with the experience that we are now looking for more than it offers. I repeat, the Community support framework we have inherited — and this is not even a criticism of anyone — was not prepared for this, because, by the way, six years ago, for you — you will be enlightened! — that was clear, it was not for the generality of the Portuguese. It wasn't, really!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u23	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u24	It was not really and there were no funds in the SEUR PO which could be allocated to it. I repeat: this is not a criticism of anyone, it is a fact. We have achieved that four million euros from the same SEUR PO were used for these projects and that in the next Community support framework, I have already said the number and repeat, 57 million euros are used. Of these EUR 4 million are executed about 1 million. Why? Because this, in fact, is still a recent reality. What we have to have, much more than fine-tuning the treatment, is always a perspective of fit for purpose, that is, we always know what we want to use that same water in order to calibrate the treatment of these STARs. Yes, Mr President, the only real water factory we can have is that of the effluents treated. This is a great bet that we have to make in order to have the principles of circular economy in which it is, in fact, the most circular of the goods we have, which is, according to nature, the water itself. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u25	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u26	Mr President, Minister, I have every respect for the knowledge that Mr. Minister has of climate change and therefore I know that Mr. Minister was not serious when he said that six years ago no one knew that Portugal was going to have a drought problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u27	That's not what I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u28	He knew! It was a consciousness that existed even beyond the political means, academic means and social consciousness. From that point of view, the only thing I can see is that you have diverted the response from the use of treated waste water for agricultural uses—and I even admit that it is one of the possibilities! - but that's not what I was talking about. I spoke about the example of the golf courses that should have this obligation long ago, as they have in other countries, but here they do not have, and I told you, for example, about cleaning streets, urban cleaning, things that also come from practices that the Ministry of the Environment could, and should, look out for them to happen and not do. I believe that there is a criticism here and that the Minister should be serious about recognizing that the government has not managed, as it should have managed, one of the fundamental points that is to make circular water also in terms of human use. Mrs. Agriculture Minister, I'd like to use the seconds I'm missing to ask you a set of questions. I have noted that the Minister has given an answer to the PSD saying that one of the most real problems of drought these days is related to animal nutrition. However, in his first speech, he did not have a single word on the subject, being curious as it was in response to a parliamentary group that identified him. Now, I would like to ask you a number of questions about this because they were left unanswered. First, what support can there be for this animal feed, how will it be distributed and, above all, this is fundamental in all the policies of the Ministry of Agriculture, what guarantees of equity exist in its distribution? I said that this point is fundamental, because we look at several of the examples you have given here in answer to the questions of drought, for example, the use of more efficient water systems and we realize that it is soon directed to the sectors that are currently the most productive and profitable in national agriculture and not to help a transformation of our agriculture, especially those that have been left behind because they are not so profitable, because they are not so productive. In other words, it is the intensive activities I always repeat preferred by the government that, once again, will be benefited from this support and I believe that this is not sustainable. When we talk about drought we have to talk about the use of water, but also about the function of soils and, from this point of view, making soils, only and alone, profitable for such intensive crops is not a perspective for the future, from response to climate change, from response to drought periods. I am referring to the concrete example I did not mention to Mr Environment Minister, but he could have done so: in the Algarve, what is the environmental and agricultural rationality — the economy I understand! — that there is an increase in the expansion of the area for the production of avocados exactly on the site of the country which has less water available either for human consumption or for agriculture? It doesn't make sense, but why is it happening? Because there is no structured thought about this matter. In conclusion, the Minister says: "Well, in the face of the war that no one wanted, but that is happening, in the face of the global environment in which there is a shortage of goods, we have a response for national and European food sovereignty. » But we see that in intensive culture...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u30	I shall conclude with this sentence, Mr President: in the intensive culture to which the Government has given precedence, it is precisely in the part of sovereignty, in that plurality of food that we can have, that the Government fails since it is always the same, olive and almond, and sometimes also the avocado, who gives it out.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u31	In reply, Mrs. Minister for Agriculture, Maria do Céu Antunes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the questions you have put to me. I would like to begin by saying that this crisis in which we find ourselves, caused by drought and increased production costs, must indeed have an immediate response. For this reason, the Government has set up a set of immediate measures to respond to this situation. You will tell me, Mr President, that the measures are still few. The creation of a medium- and long-term credit line of three years with one year's shortage is currently in the legislative process; it has already been a short-term one, with a great bonus for the Family Agriculture Statute. But since yesterday, since there has been an order that recognizes that the whole country, except for some councils of the district of Braga and Viana do Castelo, is in severe or extreme drought, virtually the whole country will be able to enjoy a set of conditions that, if not financial, will help our farmers who have certain obligations, which, at this time, have to deal with, but, because we are in a severe drought, that may no longer meet. I can give some examples, in the zone support, of the decriminalization of the reduction in areas of commitment, as well as the study we are conducting with the European Commission to raise the areas in place, so that our pastors can use them for pastoral care — these are things we are still studying. But of course we don't stay here. We have already opened a warning of EUR 15 million for areas vulnerable to rural fires, which is a very wide area of our territory, to be able to adapt, also with the construction of tanks, with the construction of tanks, with the transport of water for animal consumption. Now let's open another one, to the rest of the territory, plus 3 million. We have opened a specific warning of EUR 12 million for farmers to create charcas, to increase their allocation, their capacity for water. Also now, and from yesterday, for both integrated production and biological production, it is already possible to create alternative sources for animal nutrition. We have extended VITIS ( Vinha Restructuring and Reconversion Support Scheme ) for another year to allow investments to be made. That is to say, all that was within our immediate reach, we have done - and we are doing so, creating the best conditions is treasury, or support for farmers, in particular with support for income. I repeat: the function of the common agricultural policy, of creating a stable income to the farmer, is to ensure that we as Member States are able to produce as a whole, so that we are also food sovereign. These two crises and the third that we are living now clearly demonstrate this need. All instruments of the common agricultural policy must therefore be called upon to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u33	Thank you very much, Minister, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u34	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that this is what we are waiting for and that the Commission yesterday, in the Council of Ministers on these effects which are being felt in European agriculture, has committed itself, by Tuesday next week, to presenting financial measures, technical measures, which help farmers to have a full response to the problems in Europe. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u35	It is the time of the PCP Parliamentary Group. First of all, you have the floor of Mrs Alma Rivera to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Portugal is going through a very serious drought, with the consequences we all know. That is why the CFP wanted a debate on this matter so urgently. This is because, in order to ensure that there is no water, neither in taps nor in the fields, action must be taken. We know that, with climate change, the trend is to intensify these drought periods. However, contrary to what has been fashionable, we cannot expect it to rain, we must face the problem with appropriate measures. Government behind government has been postponed investments that are essential for water capture and storage. We have dams, albueiras, hydro-agricultural works that were subsequently announced, as they were today, and then not implemented. Small infrastructures of use are lacking throughout the country, of which much is spoken, but never done. The large dams, also thanks to the action of this government, have ceased to be under public control and are therefore not guaranteeing security in the supply and regularization of the caudals. The hydroelectrics open and close doors, depending on the energy produced is more profitable,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u37	You can also speak the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u38	...even if this undermines water safety or ecological flows. On the other hand, the water study, planning and monitoring services, such as the Water Institute, were dismantled. There is no doubt that these options do not help the drought. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, the CFP proposed a national plan for the structural prevention of the effects of drought, which the PS, the PSD and the Liberal Initiative have plummeted. Today, with extreme and severe drought at more than 90 % of the country, is there any other willingness to take the necessary measures? The country needs the management and administration of water resources exercised by the State that prevents the mercantillization of water that always appears at these times, but also the increase of costs for the populations. Is there a compromise or not? The country needs responsible management, based on the hierarchy of uses in periods of scarcity, so that it is defined where it saves itself and where it cannot miss, prioritising human use, public health, agriculture and industry adapted to climate conditions, ecosystem services. Is there any will to act in this regard today? It is necessary to go beyond the measures of circumstance and of minimization of impacts. It is necessary to plan the necessary investments with specific deadlines. We have a government committed with deadlines to carry out the so many investments that are still to be made in Mira, Alvor, Mondego? In each year that passes without substantive measures, the consequences will be more severe. what the country needs is not to delay, it is to prepare and guard—and now! — so that the consequences are no longer dramatic. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u39	To reply, Mr President, the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u40	Mr President, because the CFP still has time, I do not resist asking the honourable Member what was the barrier that came out of public management during the six years in which we were government. I'd like you to give at least one example. You must have several,... [[Protests by PCP MP Alma Rivera.]] ... by the way you put the question! There's got to be a lot of them! Madam Member, I cannot tell you otherwise: I have, in fact, the view of the sector that is diametrically opposed to yours. Ex.a says there are no dams. For what? So they don't have water? Oh, my God! Are those the dams he's missing? Oh, my God! Look, Mrs Deputies, I have no doubt — and without any prejudice to any work — that there are agricultural shells that may be needed and that they are even very important to promote the discontinuity of the landscape and to increase biodiversity. However, the only barrier that Portugal needs, if this is the solution technically found, is even to ensure the regularity of the flow in the river Tejo, since we have a piece in the river Tejo of about 70 to 80 km, between Belver and Constance, that is, at the mouth of Zezere, where, in fact, often there is little water. And it wouldn't be in the river Tejo — I repeat: not in the river Tejo! — but in the Ocreza, which is the first completely Portuguese sub-basket, if I may say so. Precisely to be less dependent, regardless of compliance with the Albufeira Convention by Spain, we need to have a water reservoir, which, in addition to being able to have other uses, has above all the most relevant use of placing water in the river Tejo. Mrs Deputies, in fact, we really have to know how to live with the nature and the proposal that the CFP makes to us is the opposite: it is to artificialize everything; it is to think that water is one of the only species — which is its own, and now my own —; it is to ensure that we manage water as any other commodity that is outside the ecosystems. That is what the honourable Member has proposed. That is not really my proposal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u41	The Parliamentary Group of the CFP continues to speak through Mr João Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister for Agriculture, came here to announce that yesterday he even signed an order. In good time the CFP has scheduled this debate; the sooner we had scheduled it, the sooner they would have announced measures! [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]] Mrs Minister, your intervention was clear and made explicit the role that the ministry has played in this problem, which is difficult, which is even unbearable and unsustainable for our farmers and livestock producers. In fact, the ministry has been lagging behind in the measures, which are very shy for what farmers and producers need. The measures should be direct aid, but the direct aid announced here by the Government is in anticipation. Mrs Minister, I ask you: in the last 10 years, tell me a year in which there has been no anticipation of the aid? They were supposed to be paid in December, but usually they're all paid in October. By pressure from the CFP, in 2020, they were paid in August! Tell me, Minister, whether the CFP is right or not, when it says that these aid should be directed towards support for farmers. The help that will be needed later on, should not be used now. What we also want to tell you is that the Minister here has announced that the solution is more indebted. Are there sectors that are already heavily indebted and what is the solution that the Minister brings here? Make more indebtedness, to cope with the difficulties they are facing. What we need, Mrs Minister, is not what the Environment Minister here has said, that he has certain measures. The main mistake not to do what is necessary is to think that you are on the right path and that you are taking the right action! Every year of drought, what farmers and producers face is in difficulty, is an unsustainable situation. That is proof that these are not the right measures. We need immediate measures, medium-term measures and structural measures. Therefore, Mrs Minister, you cannot leave here without clarifying the situation of livestock producers, livestock producers, who face difficulties. The increase in the prices of production factors is already known, the increase in the cost of cereals is expected: what response does the Minister have to give to livestock producers who are faced with the unsustainable situation in relation to feed? Moreover, Mr Minister, in an interview, made it clear to the Government that agriculture uses too much water and that it pays a low price. What the Minister also said today is that agriculture should make moderate use of water. Madam Minister, please clarify whether or not you will increase the cost of water, if the price of water will reflect what farmers and producers pay. Let us clarify whether this increase is intended by the Government for small and medium-sized farmers and, at the end of the chain, for consumers. Tell us if you are going to assume, here and now, that you will increase the cost of water for agriculture. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u43	In reply, Mrs. Minister for Agriculture, Maria do Céu Antunes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u44	Mr President, Member, I would like to begin by saying the following: The office came out yesterday because we had to wait two months,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u45	And so far?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u46	... to verify, according to IPMA data, the conditions of severe drought, practically throughout the country. We had to wait these two months so that we could do it effectively. But I also want to tell you that we had to come here to be raining, and I'm glad we came. We will be here tomorrow and Saturday and Sunday, every day that is necessary if it is to continue raining. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] But I would like to say, now without a joke, that the anticipations, Mr President, are indeed only anticipations, and if we do so in October and if, in direct payments, instead of our farmers receive 50% receive 70%, or if, in rural development, instead of 70%, they receive 85 %...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u47	That's just to save money!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u48	... and if you receive the agri-environmental and MZD (Maintenance of Agricultural Activity in Unfavoured Areas) in August, you will have conditions of predictability and treasury, to better manage your farms. This is a measure which is not quantified, but which is also important for our agricultural companies. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, to say that the current and the former Government did not care about the issues of efficient water use and irrigation, when it was the former government that developed the National Programme of Regadios with EUR 560 million, which is being completed and which for the first time supplies the dam of Fonte Serne, which, as I have just said, is no longer in extreme condition at this time to become normal with efficient use of water! Is that what you're talking about? To say this, when this government, in addition to completing the works that were coming from behind, launched the necessary warnings for the timely completion of all the necessary works not only for modernization but also for the construction of new systems! Is that what you're talking about? To say this, when this government launched a warning for the private to be able to build their own tanks and create conditions for, through the PRR, to build the dam of Pisão and the water network, in the Upper Alentejo, and the Regional Plan of Water Efficiency of the Algarve! Is that what you're talking about? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u49	Answer the question! What about the water price? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u50	In addition, we also requested a national study that takes advantage of all the opportunities we have to develop agriculture in Portugal, looking at soil quality and the availability of water. It is that water is little, that is, the soil is good, that is, so we must preserve and use our natural resources as best as possible. That is what we want to do: modernize existing systems and create new systems, if necessary and possible, to prevent the human and territorial desertification of our country. In addition, for the first time, we created the Innovation Agenda for Agriculture 2020 - 2030, which is also included not only in the PRR, by means of dedicated warnings for innovation and technological development, to mitigate and promote adaptation to climate change, such as to improve soil quality with the use of organic fertilizers to the detriment of synthesis fertilizers, seeding in between lines or promoting the use of the regional varieties best adapted or our native breeds where we value them...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u51	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u52	...or because we want our soil to be able to capture more nitrogen and more carbon.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u53	I ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u54	We also want to reach our farmers, regardless of their size. This is because large farmers go to large companies that develop technology looking for this technology to apply it in efficient use of water—because it is also a way of saving water and saving costs and producing more and better. But we also want to reach the small and medium-sized farmers, with a precision agriculture, because we do not want anyone to stay behind. It is that in this disruption which is caused by this adaptation to climate change, the digitisation of agriculture is also fundamental. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u55	For the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u56	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mr. Minister, Mrs. Secretary of State, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I was thinking that I would have finished my parliamentary life and I would have done my last intervention, but, after all, in the face of the events we all know, that had not yet happened. So today we are in a somewhat exceptional situation, because the government is still in office, but it is waiting for the takeover of a new Parliament ; because this Parliament which is here today no longer has the configuration that results from the elections, but a different configuration ; and because my situation in particular is exceptional within the already exceptional situation. As I have always advocated that the mandates and duties should be fulfilled to the end, I will therefore leave a few questions to the Minister of Agriculture, above all, in the follow-up of many others I have done during this term, and I also use them to congratulate her last time. We have often had disagreements in many debates, but this does not imply, nor has it ever involved, a lack of mutual respect. First of all, Mrs Minister, much has already been said here about the situation in agriculture, but it is good to think about what is happening. We had a pandemic situation, which many imagine did not affect the agricultural sector, but affected, and much, even by the absolute disruption of the channels why they used to drain their products, and we followed that. But when we now expect some stabilization, we are having an increase in production costs which is very significant, either by the increase in energy costs or, as the Minister mentioned here, by the increase in the price of fertilizers, rations, fertilizers, etc. , increases these that are nothing in line with what is usual. Therefore, the first question that was left to you was to know what the government is doing to assist companies in this situation or, alternatively, what price increase is that we expect in food goods. It is that, at some point, this increase in costs will have to appear, because, of two, one : or companies close, because they cannot drain their products at a profitable price, or there will be an increase in the price of food, let's say, to simplify things. On top of this, we now have the war situation we know. Since Ukraine is a producer of cereals and Russia is a producer of fertilizers, this leads us to believe that the increase in prices will worsen. So I ask again, and I ask you to be concrete in this, if there are measures prepared. From among all sectors—and there are some more affected and others less affected—, I would like to ask you a specific question about the milk sector. Many times, milk is sold by most producers, small producers, raw to cooperatives, so the control of producers over the price is virtually non-existent and has difficulty in surviving because they cannot increase the price of the goods they sell to respond to the increase in their production costs. More specifically, in relation to the water area, I would like the Minister to make a balance sheet of what has already been done, with regard to water management, over the past five years. He said — and it is a reality — that we have to be realistic, because we are not going to have any more water. It's true, we're not going, but we can take better advantage of the one we have. I would therefore like to know, in particular, about encouraging best irrigation practices and the modernisation of existing irrigation infrastructures, for example by placing on precision irrigation equipment and on technology and innovation in agriculture, what the Government is doing in this area. Finally — and with this ending — the Minister said here that there must be a collective response from the European Union. In fact, agricultural policy is common, we are not isolated, so it is clear that the situation of rising energy prices, both fertilizers and fertilizers — finally, of all that derives from the war — does not just affect us, but affects Europe as a whole. Mrs. Minister said that they were working on this and that she was going to say how, how much and who. I therefore conclude by asking whether it is possible to say how these aids will be and what are the amendments, what is the European package, how much it is for Portugal and who it is directed to. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u57	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister for Agriculture.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u58	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, it is a pleasure to see you again here, and it is with great satisfaction that we find you. We will miss you in Parliament. I would like to start by telling you that what we are preparing to do is to have a national measure, using rural development funds, like what we did in the COVID-19 pandemic, i.e. we are going to pick up a 1 % or 2 % share — it will depend on what we have been authorised by the European Commission — which will be available to the most affected sectors, as we did during the COVID measure. During the COVID measure, we have identified the sectors through, inter alia, the months affected and in relation to agricultural markets and now we are also doing so. We clearly know the most affected sector is the livestock sector, the extensive livestock sector and also some more intensive livestock, particularly the production of milk, because of the prices of rations. Therefore, we are monitoring the agricultural markets weekly through the planning office and, through the PARCA ( Platform for Monitoring Relations in the Agri-Food Chain ), we are also accompanying all agricultural markets, but more specifically the dairy sector which, because of its crisis situation, now has a greater approach here. I would also like to say that we ourselves constitute a specific working group to accompany the pigmeat production sector, because it is one of the most affected sectors, even because markets in third countries are different, are more closed, particularly the market in China, with these changes. We have also brought this issue to the European Commission — and like our own countries have also done so — and we hope to have the ability to draw nationally a measure that serves all sectors that are being affected by this just measure, by attaching the drought, by attaching the effects of drought to those which we are already feeling, with the increase in production costs and with the effects of this war between Ukraine and Russia. Therefore, it is in this sense that we are truly working. As I recently had the opportunity to say, I would like to have brought more concrete measures today. Yesterday we were still able to close this order, which allows us to have a very significant set of measures on the street, but I have not yet been able to bring the authorisation of Brussels, of the Commission, which I would like to have brought, because the Commissioner has also brought together his group of experts — his « PARCA », I would say — to present on Monday what is possible to do. I repeat, what we should take into account is that the funds of the common agricultural policy are resources of all of us. So it is these resources that we need to first examine to deal with this. Therefore, we already have a set of measures to support treasury, income and technical issues linked to obligations which farmers themselves have and which can now be lifted. And a support that we hope to give, a flat-rate support, check in hand — let me say it this way — will be given as soon as possible. We have the measure designed, but we expect the European Commission's authorisation to do so. As for the other issue that raises me, we are very committed to having answers for efficient use of water, for sustainable production, for use of soil that is consistent with it. We know that, in order to have a viable occupation of the territory, we need to have a farming that is competitive, where there is a combination of these factors. Therefore, the Innovation Agenda for Agriculture 2020 - 2030, the Recovery and Resilience Plan and the Strategic Plan of the CAP have the necessary and sufficient tools to equip farmers, irrespective of their size, of public policy instruments to deal with the use of technology, of precision technology, for these matters to be used by all and not as an exclusion factor. On the contrary, we don't want anyone to stay behind. A little while ago, in my initial speech, I wanted to go a little further, but I didn't have a chance to do it. I therefore want to say now that, with regard to the two notices that we have opened, with about EUR 4 million each, for the adaptation and mitigation of the effects of climate change, more than 400 companies have mobilized with knowledge centres and technology production to provide answers. This is what we are interested in so that we can then replicate in the service of Portuguese farmers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u59	I have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. On 18 February, the NAP proposed a debate on drought, but unfortunately that debate was rejected by the Conference of Leaders. However, this is a pressing issue, the debate of which is urgent and must not, in fact, be dealt with today, given that drought has been a phenomenon that has been affecting our country for several decades. We must not forget that in 2003 drought caused losses that amounted to more than EUR 8 billion for national producers. in this sense, we will only be designing for what the European Union's decision can be, in our view, and once again, we will be'strengthening with the belly' the problem, until climate change is a reality of the present, they are already knocking on our door and they will hit us even more severely. We recently heard a minister relativizing climate change, normalizing drought, and we had a minister praying for it to rain. And now, Minister, we have heard you say, as if this reassured us, that we are going to have water for the next two years. However, none of this allows us to sleep restless, because we know that two years are not enough, we need to think about this problem structurally and cross-sectionally to the various ministries, precisely so that we can have water—in the future, in a decade or more! — to ensure not only human drinking but also a prepared territory. in this sense, there were some issues that were not addressed. We did not talk about the pollution of our water resources, particularly in rivers and banks, for example in Leiria, because of livestock activity. We haven't talked about the Castelo do Bode dam, which serves the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon and whose levels, we know, are far below what is necessary.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u61	Necessary for what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u62	More: 7 in every 100 l of water serves to water something as superfluous as golf courses and, however, it is allowed to be built on the coast of Melides, in the Heritage of Pinheirinho. In fact, although there is no occupation yet for housing, golf courses are already being watered. Nor can one continue to normalize intensive or massive crops, such as avocado production, where for each kilogram of production we have to spend 72 l of water. We still have municipalities—and we have not heard a word about this—in which it is more expensive to spend zero of water than to spend 1 m3 of water, for example, for each individual. For all this, we need to have a National Water Plan that is adapted to climate change, scarcity and efficient use of water. The Albufeira Convention has already been mentioned here, but there is a question that is always outside this lexicon, which is its renegotiation. We cannot give thanks only for having a Convention which in some way regulates the use and flow of water, until Spain closes the taps always for its own benefit, leaving Portugal damaged. We therefore ask you, Minister, how long will it take to comply with the decision of this House of the Republic of Review of the Albufeira Convention. As for the so-called « Tejo Project », it is essential to know, given the consumption of water, whether it will or will not listen to the non-governmental organizations of the environment, because this project will create new outlets and dams that will fragment the last kilometres of the Free Tile, which has a fluvial dynamics; it will destroy landscape and biodiversity; and it will constitute a clear contradiction with the objectives set out in the guidelines of the water, birds and habitat framework and the 2030 Biodiversity Strategy of the European Union. Therefore, we want to know, Mr Minister, about this Tejo Project, what you will effectively do to ensure the existence of free rivers, because it should already be happening at this time. Mr Minister, when will the report of the National Water Efficiency Programme be made available to us? The NAP has already requested it in writing and has not yet received an answer. Madam Agriculture Minister, in conclusion, because I do not want to exceed my time, still with regard to animals, drinking and feeding, we have heard in fact speaking in support of producers. It is essential to know when there will be such support, not only for food, but above all for the transition of these activities.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u63	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u64	I really am concluding, Mr President. It is manifestly unsustainable that we continue to have livestock holdings with the level of production they are having, it is unsustainable with the use of soils. We would therefore like to know what this Government's vision is for the transition which necessarily has to take place in this area, because we must not forget that 1 kg of beef implies a consumption of more than 15 000 litres of water.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u65	We're going to have electric cows!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u66	If the issues of animal welfare are not on the table, at least the issues of our own survival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u67	To begin the answer, Mr. Minister for Environment and Climate Action, João Pedro Matos Fernandes, to whom the reply will be followed, having time, Mrs. Minister for Agriculture, Maria do Céu Antunes. Mr. Environment Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u68	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, in fact, this is a coming to the House of the Republic which is already an extemporaneous one in relation to what I myself thought and in that sense - together with the words of Mrs Cecilia Meireles. But from there you say that I have relativized the issue of climate change, and I can't even imagine where you were looking for that idea.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u69	I wasn't talking about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u70	Well, here I heard the NAP say, for example, that Leça da Palmeira's refinery had no emissions. This is not relativizing climate change, it is much worse! As far as I'm concerned, you certainly never heard such a thing. Mrs. Member, when you say that the levels of the Bode Castle dam are far below what is necessary, I ask you: for what? what is necessary for what? It is that we have water for human consumption for two years in Castelo do Bode, being caught per day—by day! — 350 000 m3 so that everyone who is a customer of EPAL ( Portuguese Free Water Company ) can drink water and have water at home. More: there is also an ecological flow — I think it will not be against — 300 000 m3 a day to ensure that the river Zézere is not only ours, of the human species, but of the entire ecosystem that needs it. And yet we were able to recover, in about a month, 64 cm from the flow of the album. So this is really called managing well. As for the national water plan, it exists and a new one will now enter into public consultation, aiming at the supply of waste water and, for the first time, of rainwater, because in the context of climate change it is essential that it be so. It is a question that now begins to be discussed at the beginning of the new Community Support Framework. Madam Member, I apologize very much for contradicting an indication of this House, but I cannot go against my conviction. I will not even renegotiate the Albufeira Convention, because that would be a terrible service to the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u71	In order to complete the Government's response, the Minister for Agriculture has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the questions. Mrs. Depute, there is no Tejo Project, a study is being done that raises very pressing questions, such as a saline, mushrooms' rumbs or other questions, such as flow regulation, so important to help preserve biodiversity and the use of its ends that is the biggest asset we have in the country. This study is still being done to raise these questions. Then, as regards livestock and livestock effluents, there is a national strategy for livestock and agro-industrial effluents, which was recently published and will be implemented. This strategy clearly states that, in relation to livestock effluents, the first priority is agricultural recovery, the second is organic recovery and the third is energy recovery. It is in this sense that the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of the Environment work together, with farmers, to have the best answers and the masses of water can effectively have the best possible quality. The Strategic Plan of the CAP has provided for ecological regimes and agri-environmental measures which can not only improve animal welfare as the digestive processes and enable our farmers to continue producing their native breeds, to have their breeds of barrosan meat, to have their bordal sheep, or other scattered across the country, so essential that they are to maintain economic and social activity.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u73	I ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u74	So let us work side by side to find measures and ways to balance greenhouse gases. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u75	What about the transition? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u76	You have the floor to ask questions, Mrs Mariana Silva, Mr Dos Verdes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, to discuss the drought situation in our country, the government is self-agreed and self-satisfied. There is water for two years—the Minister for the Environment says. There are measures to be studied—the Minister for Agriculture says. I mean, it's all normal, there's no reason to worry, it's all controlled. It is certainly wrong for farmers who do not have pasture to feed cattle, or the populations who see empty dams, or the populations that are supplied through tanks, to be confused. Perhaps none of this is understood by IPMA experts who say that 90 % of the territory is in severe or extreme drought. Climate change is one of the greatest challenges for mankind, as all human activities depend on ecosystem functions that are seriously threatened by rising temperature and changing climate patterns that are already felt. It is urgent to mitigate its effects. Water is an essential natural resource, a fundamental element of balance in terrestrial systems, with value in the environmental, social and development dimension. Water is a right of all humanity, and therefore we reinforce the idea that it is inconceivable that the management of its use, of public supply and sanitation is done according to profit-making logics. Thus, we are directly against privatization of the water sector or private concession and management. These days are responsible for giving us reason. As we consider it serious that, rather than the promised viability of sustainable agriculture, it has favoured and continues to favour the implementation of eucalyptus monocultures and the increase in the promotion of superintensive crops such as olive oil, peanut or pears, with scandalous consumption of water in areas where their scarcity is obvious and the risk of soil impoverishment is considerable. To respond to today's problems, Greens remember that it is necessary to ensure the ecological flow of our rivers, promoting its recovery and ecological restoration of coastal ecosystems. It is pressing the renewal and maintenance of water supply pipelines to control loss situations in transport. It is urgent to cover the entire territory by a public sanitation network, with adequate treatment of waste water, in order to avoid contamination of water resources, impacts on public health and degradation of ecosystems. They're talking about plans and realisations. All plans, strategies, measures, projects and good intentions are in the role, the question is whether they will be put into practice. More: the question, Minister of the Environment, is whether the political options for the future, such as the associated lithium and mineral mining projects, near the dam of Upper Rabagão, are viable options for water management. from this dam, which is almost empty, will leave 200 m3 of drinking water per day to supply the mine and will go out more 5000 m3 of raw water per day, if the banks do not have water. This water is essential for the operation of the mining complex. We ask: are projects like this, which will exacerbate the problem of access to water — and allow me to quote Mr Minister, « why is it really illusory that we will have more water in the future» — that the government will keep?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u78	You have the floor to answer, Mr Minister for the Environment and Climate Action. If you understand, you will be able to leave response time for the Minister of Agriculture. The government manages time as it understands. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the solution you have presented here is an unknown solution. I imagine that it is the one that is in the environmental impact study of the mine, which will be evaluated by the Portuguese Environment Agency and that will, of course, strictly say what you think about this process. Madam Member, I fully agree with you. I am completely against the privatization of water services, and, as you know, the responsibility for taking the water to the familial tap and even the companies is the authorities. And indeed, local power is really one of the great achievements of April and the authorities have every right to think differently from what I think. I think this way, i.e., I am against the privatization of water services. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] During these six years — I think strictly — no authority has privatized, or rather, granted even the use of water services to private people, but, if it had done so, it would have been even a local option and hardly gone if there was a protection of merit or political protection over the authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for saying, unlike other benches, that plans are already tired and therefore it is important to do things. All right! 25 years ago, long before this government became a government, only 50 % of the water coming from the taps was that it was of good quality; today, 99 % is of good quality. 25 years ago, there were 65 beaches with blue flag in Portugal ; today, there are 362. That is, much has been done, even much has been done. Do you need to do more on the side of efficiency and good management? It is! Therefore, against the will of the CDU (Unitarian Democratic Coalition ), we promote the aggregations that have excellent results from the management point of view of the same water in reducing losses. By the way, Mrs. Deputy, there is no zero loss.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u80	But there's 30%!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u81	If we have, and it is serious, a 30 % level of losses, which is the benchmark of the whole world will be between 15% and 20%, which does not mean that there is no huge work to be done. Yeah, there's a lot of work to do. Madam Member, these EUR 800 million of investment will become EUR 1000 million in the next Community Support Framework, with headings that are not completely new. Finally, some will certainly emerge as news over time, such as for example — and I think this is a good example, indeed — that of re-use of treated waste water. It is absolutely essential that this happens in a scenario where we have less and less water. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u82	To put questions, you have the floor of Mr. André Ventura, from arrive.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u83	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have more than 90 % of the territory in severe drought. That is why it is a bit caricature that the Minister says 'I would like to bring concrete measures here to this Parliament today, but I do not have'. It seems like a joke to a ruler to come to Parliament saying that he is very sorry, but he has nothing concrete to present. So, we came here a good afternoon everyone, it's all very nice, but now we're leaving. And we stayed in the same. It is not the way of a ruler to address this Parliament. It is also a bit strange, Mr Minister, to say here: 'Don't worry, the water plan for the Alentejo is almost done' — 'almost done'! We are talking about the region that has been most affected by the country's severe drought and we have a Minister of Environment who comes here saying that « it is almost done». Don't worry, they've only been in government for seven years, it's almost done, another 10 years and we certainly have the thing planned! It is a government caricature, which has left agriculture and farmers alone and without any support, listening to the PCP, the Left Block and the Greens, as if they had no responsibility in the governance of the Socialist Party over the past few years. That is why, Minister, I would like to ask two specific, very specific questions. First, farmers want support and they don't know when or how they're going to get it. In fact, they don't even know the value of the support decided at the moment for agriculture. Shall we, or shall we not, anticipate the European aid to the CAP? That is what farmers want to know right now. Can we, or should we not, take a piece of the value that is going to be allocated by the CAP and be the Portuguese Government to support agriculture? Secondly, we are having a war in Eastern Europe which has already caused the cost of energy to rise by 35 %. at this time, there are many farmers, producers and companies in the various sectors of agriculture and livestock that have no way to sustain energy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u84	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u85	I will finish, Mr. President. These people requested seasonal energy contracts from the government, asked for help with the costs of electricity. What does the Government have to offer them, besides a minister who comes to Parliament saying that he is very sorry but has nothing concrete to tell us?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u86	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u87	That is that it is shameful and should deserve the most vehemently repulsive part of the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u88	You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Minister of Agriculture, Maria do Céu Antunes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u89	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your questions, but I do not thank you for taking them completely out of context. What you brought here was a set of actions that farmers themselves know and that they already feel daily in their activity. More: in August, we approved the anticipations of payments of agri-environmental measures and measures to support disadvantaged areas.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u90	But how much?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u91	Farmers know. Mr Deputy, in October farmers also know that they can count on 50% increase in direct payments and 70% increase in rural development payments.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u92	That's how it is every year! [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u93	What we asked for was an increase from 50 % to 70 % and from 70 % to 85 %. And, yes, honourable Member, what I would have liked to have brought to this House today was monetary support, check in hand, to the farmers most affected by this crisis. I'm hoping I'll be able to announce it on Monday.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u94	We're talking to the week then!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u95	I would have done it today, but it depends on the European Commission. I already said it here today, in front of the gentlemen. Members, and I reiterate, that we presented this measure to the European Commission last week, we spoke again about it yesterday at the Council of Ministers and hope that it will be approved until Tuesday next week.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u96	You must conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u97	Let me just conclude, Mr President. Mrs Mariana Silva, I would like to say that I am not satisfied, at all, with what I am doing,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u98	Imagine the farmers!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u99	You must conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u100	...because, otherwise, I didn't do politics. Every day, we have to do different things to answer the lives of Portuguese and Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u101	You have the floor to ask questions, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u102	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Ladies and gentlemen, this debate on drought has, in fact, strong impacts on areas that are under the protection of each of you. Ministers and I am glad that it took place because, at the end of the seventh or eighth round, we began to understand a few things. I had prepared questions as to whether what happened at the Agriculture Ministers' Council last week was the effective declaration of catastrophic situation and whether this would allow the derogation of a series of things. We knew it was, but only on Monday is that we know if they were accepted. We also learned that it took two months to make that statement and that request, because the IPMA only gathered data that allowed it to do so a few days ago. Mr. Minister, what you said makes no sense at all, because since October or November we have been aware of the gravity of the situation. Regarding the anticipation of direct aid payments, there were already four or five questions on the subject and we now realize that there will be exactly the same aid as when the situation was not as tragic as it is now. As for the derogations from certain rules which do not depend on the European Union, which are national and only hinder, concerning the diversification of crops, or the laying down schedule, or on the areas of commitment, I continued to ignore whether they also depend on Monday, whether they remained in yesterday's office or if any other order is still missing. I also did not know how the regional development plan2020 is being adapted, not only for livestock, but for all areas that it could need and, indeed, benefit from direct support already. Mr Environment Minister, I would like to know whether you will agree with your colleague, Mrs Agriculture Minister, if she requests the mobilisation of the Environment Fund, which has money — almost EUR 600 million — of all taxpayers, to be used for emergency support for some agricultural activities, which will need so much. And I'm just talking about short-term concerns. As far as energy is concerned, I ask you, Minister, whether you are prepared to, in the light of what is thought to be a galloping increase in fuel prices, finally revise the tax burden on fuels. I am not talking only about agriculture, but I am talking about it in general, because there is a serious problem here.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u103	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u104	Mr Minister, have you now been able to use the national strategic fuel reserve at any time of this crisis? How are you thinking about looking at this question? It is an honest question, because I think it is at this point that national strategic reserves can serve something.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u105	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u106	I had thought about asking a few more questions, but for the time being I still have only 1, 5 minutes! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u107	You have the floor to answer, Mr Minister for the Environment and Climate Action.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u108	Mr President, Mr President, going to the last question you asked very briefly - I am replying that Portugal has indeed 90-day fuel reserves - I am talking about fuels such as petrol, diesel and crude - and are parked almost entirely in Portugal. When there is a need to use these reservations, I can tell you, Mr President, that logistics is designed. For natural gas, we had reserves three or four days ago in the order of 79 %. In the meantime, three ships were unloaded. I do not have the number of the last ship, but we had 85% of the natural gas reserves before that.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u109	You have the floor, too, to answer, Mrs. Minister for Agriculture.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u110	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your questions. I would like to begin by saying that the plan for drought situations clearly defines that in order to define a situation as a severe or extreme drought class we need to have two months of effective drought...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u111	We're on the six months!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u112	...and only by the end of February did we have that statement. It is that in December, as well as it is well remembered, it rained, so only in January and February is that we had no rainfall.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u113	We had luck, it rained!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u114	Mr President, as I have said since the beginning of my speech, there are several measures, but some of them depend on us and are being applied—for example, the organic or integrated production methods for animal nutrition can already, from yesterday's notice, be made with alternative forms—and others, such as the question of areas in lieu, not being our own competence, expect Commission authorization. Indeed, we presented these measures last week and we also expected to have had an extraordinary response yesterday in the Council, but we were not given that answer and said that they would only present it on Monday. Many things have happened all of a sudden and all the institutions are preparing to have the best answers and the fastest. It has been recognised by everyone, by the Commissioner himself and by colleagues from the other Member States, that we have to have answers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u115	On behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, you have the floor to put your questions to Mr Hugo Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u116	Mr President, Minister for Environment and Climate Action, Minister for Agriculture, Mrs. Secretary of State, fortunately, on the day we debate in this House the problem of drought has already rained and I believe that in the coming days it is planned to rain more intensely. Although they are good news, the problem of drought in Portugal is not conjuncural, the problem of drought in Portugal is a structural problem, particularly in the south of the Tejo. This phenomenon is a consequence of climate change that is happening a little everywhere and, above all, in this area of the globe, in the Mediterranean basin, the trend is even to walk for longer periods without rainfall. The challenge we have today is not to have more water than 15 or 20 years ago, the challenge is to ensure that we will have no less water in the future than we have now. In order to do so, we must better manage this resource that is indispensable to our survival, both on the demand side and on the side of the service provider, that is, on the side of water supply systems. It is essential to deepen the adoption of savings habits in domestic consumption. There is a need for a change in water consumption habits for industrial purposes and for agricultural activity and a change in consumption habits by the authorities is also necessary when they use company water for the watering of gardens or cleaning of streets. These changes will require political decision-makers from the various levels of governance, from national to parish, effective measures to move towards a more sustainable use of water. We need to better manage our water supply systems. This is what the government has been doing by encouraging the aggregation of various systems, making them more efficient and sustainable. We must find new sources of water, such as desalination, for example in the Algarve, or waste water treatment, so essential for the efficient use of water, particularly in the southern territories of the country, such as Alentejo and Algarve. Mr Minister, the question I want to ask you has to do with investment. In the current Community Framework, PT 2020, which is already at its final stage, I believe that there is no investment line for waste water treatment. What I would like to know is whether in the next Community Support Framework, which has already been negotiated by the Government of the Socialist Party, any investment in waste water treatment is planned. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u117	You have the floor to answer, Mr Minister for the Environment and Climate Action.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Hugo Pires, that is exactly what you say. I feel that we have indeed the political obligation to adapt to ensure that we will have no less water, because there is a centenary habit of using that water for various purposes. But in making this statement, I have no illusions about the low rainfall, because water always has its origin, even if it is in our aquifers. That is why, Mr President, we shall essentially have to act on the demand side. It is even acting on the side of the search that we have to concentrate our action, that is, reducing, compriminating, allowing at least it not to increase. And that is a very extravagant action, if you will, the political action of the Ministry of the Environment and even a great deal extravagant the political action of those — the authorities — makes the day-to-day management of their systems. It goes a lot further and, when it is, it becomes necessary a big compromise, but, however great this commitment is, everything is longer in time, everything is more complex, because there are many tensions that are generated here. It's really that management we've been doing. In meeting your question in particular, I would like to say that, since it is the truth, because it is new and because at no time I said that treated waste water should be used only for the water of agriculture, as Mr. Bloc de Left said — I gave only the example of Magra's ETA (Water Treatment Station ) — it is clear that treated waste water, as I have already mentioned, has as uses all those that are possible, even for human use, except for drinking. It does not mean that, in some cases, this cannot happen until then, but we must recognize that this is not why we should start. And therefore, for everything that is washing, cleaning of streets, running chafarizes, watering of gardens or other urban meadows, preferably with increasing water intensity, these waste water should even be used. We have experiences! As this matter is really recent—and I have never said that six years ago it was not expected that the drought would come, I said, yes, six years ago that the use of treated waste water was even, only and so alone, an academic issue—I remember that the directive was only adopted later, in fact, the month after I arrived, and that only after that was that there were laws and projects in Portugal and only after that was that there was investment, despite having achieved EUR 4 million that were not foreseen in this Community Support Framework. And, I repeat, this is no criticism of anyone. I am sure that during the next Community Support Framework, there will certainly be investment needs that we do not imagine today and will therefore need to correct it. That's what I said and not what they said, i.e., that waste water was just to water permanent crops. The next Community Support Framework will increase investment in the water sector and in the urban water cycle from EUR 800 million to EUR 1000 million over the same period. And let me tell you, Mr, that, as far as the urban water cycle is concerned, perhaps this is our last chance to complete the investments we have to make. It has already come a lot of money to Portugal and it has all been well invested, because indeed our delay was very great. But we are indeed a success in Europe and the outside world, with regard to the recovery of water quality indicators for humans and also in the rejection of effluents. I already gave that number and I repeat it: in 20 years, we passed from 65 blue flags to 262. As you can imagine, it was not the water from the sea that improved, it was even the treatment of sewage that allowed the improvement of bathing water. Our forecast is that EUR 57 million will be the investment that will be financed during the next Community Support Framework, which means increasing the funds we can quickly find 14 times. These EUR 57 million can still be added, as acquired, the EUR 23 million for the Algarve, to improve the treatment conditions of 6 to 7 ha, which will then allow their direct use, among other things, to water golf courses. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u119	To put questions, Mr Pedro do Carmo has the floor for the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this debate, it must be said — it is never too much — that we are living in a difficult time. We live a period of extreme drought, although droughts in Portugal are a constant recorded in recent decades. The truth is that they feel more and more frequently, with greater intensity and with greater longevity. Otherwise, at the temperature level, of the 10 warmest years, 7 occurred since 1990 ; at the precipitation level, 5 of the 10 driest years occurred after 2000. It is therefore clear that this situation has worsened. In our country, seasonal precipitation has great variability, with decrease in spring, summer and winter and an increase in autumn, which represents a reduction of the winter period and the anticipation of spring, thus causing a direct influence on winter cultures in our Mediterranean climate. It is clear that climate change is making itself feel and as a result of an increase in drought and desertification, mostly in the interior of the country, particularly in the territory of Alentejo. These are the facts. But what should we do to overcome this adversity? What should be our future performance, specifically in the most affected territories? First, recognize and replicate good examples. Yeah, I'm talking about Alqueva. Alqueva is a good example of how to cope with desertification and allow a highly productive agriculture. I cannot help but recall some unfavorable comments when building the dam, in which many mentioned, among other problems, the climate impact that it would cause in the region, which would be highly harmful to crops. Nothing, nothing too wrong! Twenty years later, we can say, of course, that the Alqueva has transformed the Alentejo region and has avoided further desertification much announced. The large barrier of Alqueva produces energy and provides water for agriculture and human consumption. Conclusion: We must replicate this model in other regions of the country, thus complementing the National Regadios Programme, and we have the example of the Pisão dam.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u121	Great thing! 10 percent!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u122	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the little water that rains cannot be wasted and there is only one way to take advantage of it, which is to keep it in shells and dams. The way is not to blame agriculture. Agriculture is food, agriculture is sustainability, agriculture is life, it is ecology, it is people's fixation in the territory. We can only effectively avoid drought with sustainable agriculture and with motivated farmers, because it is only a solution to stop producing to justify the reduction of water consumption, to then import these same products from another region of the world, creating the illusion that the problem no longer exists. No, it doesn't cease to exist just because it's not at our door, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Agriculture has been able to evolve in the efficient use of water. We have a growing technological index, with innovative precision tools, implementing new varieties, demonstrating that we are using more effectively available water, greatly reducing its losses. In short, in order to overcome drought, we need to increase our storage capacity, taking advantage of all rainwater, when it occurs, to make it available in drought periods, such as this one we live in, and to continue to advance in an increasingly efficient use of water. However, this is an emergency moment, Mrs. Minister, because much of the winter cultures are lost. There are no pastures to feed the animals. It is necessary to promote and ensure the drinking of animals. I repeat, this is even an emergency period because it adds to this serious situation of drought the crisis that had already been felt with the increase in production factors—as has already been widely mentioned, for example in relation to fertilizers—and now, Mr President, worse with this stupid and criminal war in Ukraine, which has aggravated the situation and has no justification. There is an urgent need for Europe to respond to the countries of the south, particularly the whole of the Iberian Peninsula, where these effects are felt with a higher incidence. No, it's not just our own problem, it's everyone's problem, it's a problem of the whole European Union. So, Mrs Minister, in addition to the urgent measures already mentioned here, I ask you: to mitigate the harmful effects of this drought, what measures will you propose in Brussels to help our agriculture and our farmers? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u123	To conclude this debate, I have the floor of Mrs Maria do Céu Antunes, Minister for Agriculture.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u124	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the questions raised here. I would like to begin by saying that we, together with Spain, have submitted a set of four concrete proposals to the Agriculture Commissioner. On the one hand, the increase in the advance percentages of the funds that farmers would receive in December and which, in advance, in recent years, receive in October, on the basis of 50 % in direct payments, which we ask for to receive to 70 %; and, in rural development, we request to move from 70 %, which would normally receive to 85 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u125	I've said that three times!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u126	On the other hand, we call on the European Commission to ensure that the areas in place can be used for grazing; we call for a derogation from the practice of diversification of crops; and, finally, we call for direct support for farmers affected by this crisis. I recall that, recently, I did not mention these figures at the time of the COVID, we made a similar measure, and the Commission said that we could use 2 % of the rural development package for this purpose. It was EUR 71 million for farmers affected by the pandemic. We are now also waiting for the Commission's guidance on how we can help Portuguese farmers cope with the impacts of drought. As I have had the opportunity to say, Mr President, the planning office is studying with the sectors and accompanying the agricultural markets, so that we can effectively and fairly know whom these values must be attributed to. For now, the answer I can give you is that it will be for the livestock sector, to deal with the increase in the price of rations. I also mentioned today that from 2020 to 2021 they have increased 53%. So we really have to be careful about this factor. I would also like to tell you the following: at the meeting of the Council of Ministers yesterday, which was called upon to discuss the impact that the situation between Ukraine and Russia is already setting aside for European agriculture, was first of all decided that we must do everything to ensure security in food supply, first in Ukraine and then in all the Member States of the European Union. This will involve a set of derogations which will increase at this time the production areas, including the use of the land being stopped, which is in place, since in spring we will not be able to count on Ukraine, which is one of our cereal and oil-producing countries. Therefore, they will further enhance feed and feed for animals and so we ask for these derogations. We also call for the implementation of the Common Market Organisation Regulation — which is why there is, that is, to deal with times like this — in order to create conditions to ensure our strategic autonomy and, in some way, to achieve price stabilization, so that we can prevent increases from being reflected in the final consumer. This is what moves us every day. You have made an intervention, which I endorse, in particular, whether these are immediate, immediate and emerging measures to move forward with answers that must be given because of the situation we are experiencing. But another situation is when we look at the drought, which is not, as my colleague said at the beginning of our intervention, conjuncturally, it is structural, it drags itself many years ago, and the Mediterranean climate will increasingly have consequences aggravated by climate change. We need to change the paradigm, all of us as citizens, but also from an agricultural point of view. We need to have a more ready agriculture to use technology, to use alternative sources, for example waste water. If in some urban agglomerations that have farms nearby it will be easy to do so, in other places it will be impossible to make such use, but we are doing the work needed to adapt. There is all work that can and must be done: the use of organic fertilizers in place of synthesis, to better retain water; the production of clean energy, to avoid the consumption of electricity; the installation of photovoltaic panels, whose installation we have been promoting, with more than 50 million euros that we have already targeted our farmers;...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u127	I ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u128	... the replacement of obsolete equipment and, with this, wanting an agriculture that needs to be prepared for the future, where climate change, in which the least amount of water available, the most rational use and soil are the main assets that we have to value. Agriculture is able to generate wealth, fix people and feed a territory and a continent, and that is why the common agricultural policy has been created and that is why it continues to be developed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-03.u129	Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded this meeting. It remains to be announced that the Conference of Leaders is scheduled for 8 Tuesday at 16 p.m. Thank you very much and a good afternoon. The meeting is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 1 minute.]]
