ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on behalf of the Bureau, compliance with VV. For example, as well as the members of the Government here present. The session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] I request that the gates of the galleries be opened for access to the citizens who want to accompany us. First of all, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha has the floor to report on the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted by Mr President, several legislative initiatives: Proposal for a Law No 3 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), which drops to 1. Commission ; Draft Resolution Nos 22 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which falls to 4. the Commission, 23 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 24 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), 25 / XV / 1. a ( BE), 26 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), 27 and 28 / XV / 1. a ( CH), 29 / XV / 1. a ( L) and 30 / XV / 1. a (IL) ; and Draft Law Nos 40 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 42 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 45 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 14. the Commission, and 49 / XV / 1. a ( IL). I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, as you know, today we will discuss the Stability Programme ( EP ), together with the Resolution Projects Nos 24 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Developing the Country, valuing work and workers, promoting national production, breaking with external dependence, 25 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Budget policy for expenditure growth and public investment, 26 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the submission of a genuine Stability Programme, including a Portugal return strategy to convergence with European countries, 27 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — By rejecting the Stability Programme 2022 - 2026, 28 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends that the Government supplement the Stability Programme with an investment programme in national defence, 29 / XV / 1. a ( L) — A dynamic economy for a society of dignity: the strategic development programme for the sustainability of Portugal. It recommends that the Government use the Stability Programmes to focus government bodies on the transition to a new development model, incorporating more long-term economic indicators, including indicators of sustainable development, giving priority to aspects more directly related to the environment, quality of life, happiness, health and well-being and 30 / XV / 1. a (IL) — By a growth-focused development model. To begin the debate, Mr. Minister for Finance, Fernando Medina, who will present the Stability Programme, has six minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u4	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: in my first speech in the Assembly of the Republic ( RA ) as Minister of Finance, I begin by saying a very special greeting to all Members of Parliament and to all Members. Members, wishing them the greatest political and personal happiness in the performance of such a high responsibility in this context of demand for our democracy. I reaffirm the commitment of closer institutional cooperation, which is not only the government's legal obligation as the spirit of all democrats in the House of our democracy. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Stability Programme 2022 - 2026 was developed in a context of high uncertainty. The world, which has not yet recovered from more than two years of pandemic, is now facing a new crisis caused by the invasion of Ukraine. But if the context is uncertain, the Stability Programme defines a clear strategy: economic and social recovery, convergence with the European Union ( EU ), reduction of public debt. We do so because only strong, lasting and sustainable growth is a pillar of high levels of employment and improved income and guarantees the financing of a strong, modern and effective social state. We do so because debt reduction is the path that enables us to maintain the country's external credibility, a pillar of the financial stability of the state, companies and families. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This year we will exceed the product levels recorded in 2019 — pre-pandamia — and will record the highest investment weight in the Product since 2010. In 2026, we will have almost a decade of convergence with the euro zone, confirming the path started in 2016 and only interrupted in one year by the pandemic.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u6	It will be the largest period of convergence with the euro area's income since the creation of the single currency. in this period, unemployment will continue to fall, reaching rates below 5 % of the active population, while we will continue to value wages, including the national minimum wage. [[P.S.'s applause.]] To achieve these objectives of convergence and valuing work, we will continue with an ambitious agenda of reforms and investments within the Recovery and Resilience Plan ( PRR ), investments that will promote a greener, more digital, more qualified and competitive economy that will allow us to converge with Europe over the next decade. And yes, we will continue to reduce our public debt. in a context of growth, but also of high uncertainty, in which possible interest increases are expected, the best contribution that the State can offer to the Portuguese is to ensure a consistent trajectory of debt reduction. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We want and will be able to withdraw Portugal from the group of economies with greater public debt in Europe, not because we want any distinction but because that is the best way to defend businesses and families. We will gain budgetary space to deal with the uncertainty of growth and we will be better prepared to reduce the impact of any interest increases.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : They wanted the political circumstances that this debate on the Stability Programme 2022 - 2026 took place when the State Budget for 2022 was already delivered in this House, being known to the Portuguese and being us on the eve of the debate. The budget proposal for 2022 minimizes the effects of inflation and its effects on families and businesses, renews the commitment to boost Portuguese income and investment and ensures that the country's accounts will remain true. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We will reduce the budget deficit and public debt and provide for measures equivalent to 2, 4 % of GDP (gross domestic product) to contain the impacts of geopolitical shock and strengthen Portuguese income and public investment. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have faced times in Europe that imagination would have been difficult to anticipate in a very short time. In the face of the unexpected and uncertainty, history calls on us to respond in a balanced and determined way, without yielding to facilitation or populism and focused on building solutions that promote national growth and cohesion. This is the commitment which the Government, through this Stability Programme, reaffirms today to the country and to the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u9	The Minister of Finance has eight requests for clarification. Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor for the first request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister for Finance, I give you a first word to welcome you and sincerely wish you the greatest happiness in the tasks you are starting, with the conviction that the success of your performance is positive for the country, which is what should always motivate us all. However, the Minister is fortunate in his first presence in the Assembly of the Republic in this capacity. And it is unfortunate that we have come here to have a debate on a programme which, firstly, has not prepared, has not prepared; secondly, it has been presented by a government and a finance minister who is already history—on the basis of a reality which, as Mr President confirmed, has changed dramatically since this document was delivered to the Assembly of the Republic—and thirdly, there is no. This is the truth, Minister. This document, or this blank role, which the previous Government has sent us, is nothing more than that, Minister. The speaker posted the Stability Programme 2022 - 2026. The Government has the primary responsibility to comply with the law and, secondly, to respect the Assembly of the Republic. I know that direct responsibility is not yours, because, as I said to you, this document has been presented by a government and by a minister who has already made history, but it is up to you to the ungrateful task of being here to defend. Who claims that the Programme does not comply with the law? Indeed, I read the report by UTAO (Technical Unit for Budgetary Support): 'The EP delivered to the RA does not meet the legal requirements and is surprised that it has been submitted by a government that would not be able to execute it. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u11	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u12	The Council of Public Finance considers that, in the absence of a Stability Programme, "the conditions for assessing this macroeconomic scenario underlying that document are not met" and urges the new Government to "present an effective Stability Programme at the beginning of a government cycle". Well, we're talking about independent entities, we're not here in the political-party game. This means that what we are doing today is only meeting the timetable, and that is why the Minister had to spend part of his time talking about not the document that does not exist, because he has this conscience,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u13	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u14	... but from the Budget, which we are going to discuss in the next week – forgetting that this Budget, which has already been delivered and which we are going to discuss, leads families to a widespread loss of purchasing power in the face of inflation that the country has recorded. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u15	So my question is very simple. Mr. Minister, over the past 20 years, we have passed from 16. or 22. the place with regard to the parity of purchasing power in the European Union. Do you really believe that it is with what does not exist here that the country can reverse this direction and stop being the last of the European Union? It is before us, in particular, but it quantifies, timetables, for a real political debate to take place! — the Government's strategy to make us grow and get closer to the front platoon and not to the tail of Europe. Have the courage to do it! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u16	Mr President, the Bureau has left it to use the word without a time limit in the request for clarification, which has no problem, but cuts in the overall time of the Democratic Social Party. The Minister said he would respond to requests for clarification in sets of four. However, this will no longer be the geometry, since, however, there is another request for clarification, in a total of nine. I would like to ask the Minister if he would respond first to a set of four requests for clarification and then to the other five. [[Pause.]] All right, that's how we'll do it. Therefore, you have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mrs Jamila Madeira of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u17	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank the Minister for bringing about a Stability Programme that maintains a commitment line with the Portuguese and the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u18	It wasn't him, it was the other one!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u19	They are firm commitments that the government — this government, the former government, over the past six years — assumes that it has and has always had difficult challenges, which we have overcome, so we will also overcome these with hope and constant monitoring. And this is well poured into this Stability Programme. On the other hand, the right claims that it is not a real Stability Programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u20	And it's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u21	But what would be to the right a real Stability Programme? I remember that, on the right hand, we had more and more austerity, in addition to the austerity that external instruments impose upon us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u22	That was José Socrates!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u23	On the right hand side, we had cuts in pensions, cuts in public service salaries, cuts in holiday and Christmas allowances, absence of support for businesses and families, cut in family allowance, more taxes, more charges, blind cuts in public expenditure, dismantling of the social state... Finally, we could continue out there. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests of PSD and CH Members.]] In fact, in this Stability Programme, the uncertainties we face are accommodated, but not the austerity that the right blindly defends in the face of any difficulty—because it always goes to Excel leaf and cuts, cuts, cuts!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u24	That was José Socrates!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u25	We know today that, with the logistical crisis and the war, many are the data we do not control, so now, as in the pandemic, the government is trying to overcome the difficulties by solving the problems of businesses and families, but by safeguarding them whenever they do so with certain accounts. I am talking about certain accounts that will lead us to: to quickly get out of the crisis situation, reaching levels of recovery, economic growth and convergence — convergence as an indicator and expectation that we always want to have in our sight —; to reduce public debt, which, despite the trend of decline, still weighs on our public accounts; to maintain very competitive levels of interest so that the burdens we have do not affect the objective of supporting families; to keep the deficit controlled; and to ensure our international financial credibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u26	I didn't read the document!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u27	Only with less deficit, less debt, less interest and more economic growth can we continue to strengthen support for families and businesses, as is done in the State budget proposal. Only with this Stability Programme can we continue to mobilize measures to mitigate the prices most affected by the pandemic and the war, at the level of energy and production factors, and support the most vulnerable families with additional support both at the energy level and at the food level. Therefore, Minister, I would like to thank you for delivering an empty document in the perspective of the right: empty austerity because the right desires,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH's laughs and protests.]] ... but filled with ways of hope to solve the problems of people, our citizens and our companies, who believe that, given with international partners, we will overcome this challenge, that no one before and no one can expect their crystal ball to solve. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u28	What was the question?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u29	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u30	Mr President, Minister for Finance, I would like to ask you a very specific question about the situation of the New Bank. As the Minister will certainly know, the New Bank has already consumed 3500 million of this guarantee of EUR 3900 million which would not be used, according to its predecessors Finance Ministers. There is, however, funding for the New Bank which will cost the State more than 750 million euros according to the audit conducted and disseminated by Deloitte. Each year, the State injects more capital into the New Bank on the basis of this mechanism, which is called « deferred tax assets » and causes the State to directly inject capital into the New Bank, 154 million in 2017, 99 million in 2018, 128 million in 2020. In January 2022, the Tax Authority approved a new injection of 133 million in the New Bank. I know that I have heard the Minister say, in the presentation of the State budget, that the State budget for 2022 would not bring another penny to the New Bank, but when I read the Stability Programme, I see that it has more than 138 million for deferred tax assets. So the question that I have to ask you is very direct: is this money that is planned in the Stability Programme and what is going to be, or is it already, planned in the State budget for 2022 envisage a new injection into the New Bank? Will or will not the government inject some EUR 130 million into the New Bank's capital on account of deferred tax assets?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u32	I know, in anticipation of your reply, that the Minister will tell me that with these injections the State is entitled to a percentage of the capital of the New Bank. at this moment—see for yourself! — the injections are such that the State is already entitled to 16 % of the New Bank's capital. But see, Minister, how disastrous the contract is! [[Protests by PS MP Miguel Matos.]] And I will explain to Mr. Miguel Matos why he is disastrous.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u33	Don't get mad, you're friends! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u34	It is that the state may have 16 % because it put the money there, but the percentage that is diluted is that of the Resolution Fund, and not that of Lone Star. Lone Star's property and profits are unaffected, however, the State makes a new injection into the New Bank, and the property may be its own, but it is diluted to the Resolution Fund, which is also of the State. Therefore, Minister, tell us, please, that the statement you made in the presentation of the State budget that there will be no more than one cent for the New Bank in 2022. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u35	To request clarifications, you have the floor of Mrs Diana Ferreira of the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister for Finance, the economic and social situation of our country has deteriorated significantly with the brutal increase in the cost of living. It increases the price of fuels, energy, food goods, among others, speculating with fundamental needs, and increases the profits of millionaires, especially those of the large economic groups, many of them holders of the supply of these same goods and services. They only increase wages and pensions so as to restore all the lost purchasing power, not only today, but from years behind. Over a month's wages and pensions, Minister. There are many who, days after receiving, go to make accounts to life to understand how it will endure the rest of the month, because, paid bills, if any, that money gets short to feed the family all month long and to respond to many other needs. And it's not with assistance measures that we're going there, Minister. This daily reality of hundreds of thousands of families in our country has no answer in this document, which refuses to solve the structural problems that the country faces. The Government's explicit refusal to increase wages and pensions in order to recover purchasing power from the speculative increase in prices means the imposition of cuts in wages and pensions to millions of workers and pensioners. What the government is saying is that it will be the workers and the reformers to pay for the crisis with the degradation of their living conditions. Minister, is this what the government wants to do, effectively? In addition to a question of social justice, a better distribution of wealth, of combating inequalities and poverty, of valuing those who work — who produce the wealth of our country — and of those who have worked a full life, the general increase in wages and the recovery of pensions are unacceptable measures to respond to the daily suffocation facing millions of workers, pensioners and pensioners. Therefore, Minister, what matters is whether the Government will: increase the national minimum wage to €850 in a short period of time; end the expiry of the collective contract so that the average wages can effectively increase; correct the injustices experienced by the employees of the Public Administration, which more than a decade ago are losing purchasing power, a situation which the government proposes is far from completing; and ensure an extraordinary increase of at least €20 for all pensioners and pensioners. Without these measures, the government can well speak of the objectives of deficit and of certain accounts, but the lives that are wrong are those of workers, pensioners and pensioners, who continue to account for life and impoverish these options that the government intends to take. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u37	To respond to these four requests for clarification, Mr President-in-Office of the Council has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Duarte Pacheco, allow me to start by thanking you for your words and expressing the great pleasure I have in reviewing in discussions on financial matters, in which we have also crossed ourselves a few years ago. The reasons for the simultaneous debate of the Stability and Budget Programme — which is not, in fact, practical or usual — can be attributed to all, except to the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u39	Those who decided to give way to the State budget and provoke a political crisis—knowing, in fact, that our obligations regarding the presentation of the Stability Programme remain those that were always, in April—were all parties, with the exception of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u40	And the PAN!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u41	And, yes, the circumstances in which the Stability Programme was drawn up, in the nearest possible fulfillment, of everything that is included in the Stability Programme, make it possible for us to present it and defend it with conviction. Allow me, Mr, to tell you the following : the way in which Mr and the PSD bench have referred to the Stability Programme, building on the criticisms in formality, shows a huge blank page on the part of the PSD. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u42	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u43	And on this blank page of the PSD, it was necessary to know exactly how they would fill it in the Stability Programme, if it were your responsibility to prepare it. The truth is that we do not know, on the PSD side, the alternative to a sustainable and convergent economic growth strategy. The question is that we do not know from the PSD the alternative to a policy for the sustainability of our public accounts and for the reduction of debt.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u44	We've been scrutinizing the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u45	That is why, in the context of the enormous uncertainty in which we live, this Stability Programme ensures, at the same time, with firm conviction, with determination, a clear path for the next few years in the country's economic and financial policy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u46	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u47	... with growth of our economy, convergence with the European Union and reduction of public debt as essential elements for the protection of the Portuguese and Portuguese economies. Mrs Jamila Madeira, I would like to thank you for your intervention, because you stressed precisely this aspect of the stability programme's capacity to, in a context of uncertainty, accentuate the fundamental elements of the course and a political strategy: economic growth, convergence and debt reduction. Yes, because these elements are instrumental to what is essential in our country, what is to be able to maintain very high levels of employment, as we have today, which will enable us to pursue the policy of improving living conditions and income and a strategy of fiscal consolidation and reduction of our public debt, which — I stress again their words and my own — is not an approach to being used at a meeting, but simply of the greatest possible protection, in a context of uncertainty, in a context of high public and private debt, of the incomes of our families and our businesses. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u48	Reducing our public debt at the moment is an imperative to protect the living standards of Portuguese families, and I am therefore grateful for the emphasis you have put on our Programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Mariana Mortagua, I understand your question and why you did it. I was very clear at the press conference when I said there was no transfer to the New Bank. It won't happen! In fact, I am absolutely sure that on the day of the delivery of the State budget, the honourable Member went to check whether it was on the budget pages or not.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u49	I trust your word!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u50	It's not in there! I repeat: it does not appear! Now, since there is no record of what Mrs Deputy has always fought over the years so that she does not, I ask you not to try to create a new story by inventing a transfer that does not exist,... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u51	But is it or isn't it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u52	... a transfer that arises not from the basic contractual mechanism, but from the application of the legislation, and that will, yes, allow that conversion to capital.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u53	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u54	Mrs Deputy, I'm telling you one thing: your story about the New Bank is over! If you want to count another one, you will count on it, but I admit that, possibly, like every second season, you will not have the success of the first one. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Diana Ferreira, I have listened to your speech with great attention and respect and, in the end, I have missed something.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u55	From friendship!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u56	I have missed an apology from the PCP to the hundreds of thousands of pensioners who will only receive through retroactively the increase of pensions to which they are entitled, because the PCP has led the State budget! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u57	The honourable Member speaks of the obligations of a government and the guidelines of a policy. The truth is, Mrs. Member... [[Protests by PCP MP Diana Ferreira.]] I know, I know, Mrs. Member, that it is difficult to hear, but the truth is this: if it had not been for a PCP option, the hundreds of thousands of pensioners would already be receiving this increase, which, in fact, was defended by the Communist Party. [[PCP protests.]] Madam Member, I have listened to you carefully, with respect, not in agreement, as you imagine, but now let me answer how I believe I have the right to answer, which is true of the facts.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u58	Be serious! Seriously in the debate!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u59	All measures to enhance the incomes contained in the political orientation of the Socialist Party, which have been enriched with the contribution of other parties,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u60	On proposal from the PCP!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u61	...including the Portuguese Communist Party, they can only enter into force, with retroactive effects, after the feasibility of the State Budget, against the will of the Communist Party, because it has led the previous Budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u62	That's demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u63	Seriously!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u64	Therefore, Mrs Deputy, do not place so much emphasis and emphasis on words, bearing in mind, indeed, as great, or the main one, as a defender of the incomes of workers and pensioners, because lessons on this matter we do not accept from anyone. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u65	You're the gentlemen who don't want to raise wages! That's why you wanted the absolute majority!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u66	The Bureau records the entries of four more Members to request clarifications, and not five, as I said earlier, because, in the meantime, there was a withdrawal. For a request for clarification, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira of the Social Democratic Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister of Finance, things are what they are rather than the names we give them. Mr President, the Government and the Socialist Party can call this document whatever they want — I repeat, whatever they want — but the Stability Programme is certainly not. It is regrettable that the Government does not comply with the law and the Socialist Party beat its hands. And, no, Minister, we're not talking about formality! [[PSD applause.]] We are talking about illegality, as if inferring from the opinions of UTAO and the Council of Public Finance. It is regrettable, Mr Minister, that the Government, by this way, disqualify this debate and devalue the Assembly of the Republic. It is regrettable, Mr Minister, that in addition to the beginning of a new legislation, the government despises—because that is the clear expression! — an excellent instrument for planning its strategic options and the size of the financial resources to enable them in the medium and long term, because that is what we are talking about. The truth is, Mr Minister, that the government is presenting itself before this House to fulfil the timetable. But we are not here to fulfill the timetable, Minister. Don't count on it! We have not given up on making the debate possible, and I am therefore asking you again what my colleague Duarte Pacheco has already asked and what Mr Minister has not answered. Mr Minister, is he able to state what economic and budgetary policy measures the Government has to put an end to — please note: to put an end to — an alarming path of divergence towards Europe, of which the document does not speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u68	Divergence against Europe? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u69	Mr Minister, is it possible to elucidate whether these measures, which we do not know, break up with the past, which the government says is successful, but which, in turn, have thrown us into the tail of Europe? In fact, Mr Minister, how can the government speak of success, knowing that in the last six years — look well: in the last six years! — GDP per Portuguese head rose from 78 % of the European average to 74 %? How can the Government speak successfully, knowing that in the last six years, the 14 countries of cohesion, in addition to Portugal, have grown to an average annual of 2, 5 %, while Portugal has grown less than half of that, only 1, 1 %? Minister, tell us: Is that what the government is going to change? Or are you expecting to be overcome by those who have not yet surpassed us — speaking of Romania, Latvia, Croatia, Slovakia, Greece and Bulgaria, and thus occupying the poorest place of the European Union? Look, we've been much further, Minister, you know? Oh, my God! Yesterday, the International Monetary Fund ( IMF ) drew attention to the fact that Portugal was back behind the European East after 2023.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u70	After 2023!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u71	Minister, is this the time we're going to change our lives? Or are we gonna catch up on the road and do it right now? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u72	For a request for clarification, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, Dear Colleagues, between the delivery of the Stability Programme and the delivery of the Budget, spent about two or three weeks and that short period was sufficient to forecast GDP growth from 5 % to 4, 9 % and the forecast of inflation from 2, 9 % to 3, 7 %. Do you think we can take a document seriously that does not pass from a set of tables up to 2026, but whose forecasts for a year that already goes half, within two or three weeks, change at that speed? We're talking about predictions that the Ministry of Finance itself doesn't believe today. How can we believe in a document that has forecasts for 2025 and 2026, when not even the 2022 forecasts stand longer than a few weeks? What I think is that we are all wasting time discussing a document that is a fiction and that does not meet the minimum requirements — not even the legal ones — to be discussed here. I understand that it is unfair to be asking you this because I know that this document has not been prepared for you or for your team, but for your predecessor, who has, however, already left, but not before now assigning to your future employer funding which has not attributed to other institutions. Knowing that Mr Minister has already served as curator of the ISCTE ( Higher Institute of Labour and Enterprise Sciences ), I have a very abstract doubt: what is the ISCTE? Really, what is the ISCTE? Regarding ISCTE : the rector has already been minister of the PS and her head of office is married to a current minister of the PS, who has also been curator ;... [[Protests of PS Members.]] ... the communication advisors are connected to the PS ; two thirds of the political students are from the PS ; and seven ministers have already had some kind of connection to that institution. Therefore, despite the fact that the country is stagnant and many universities have difficulty financing their projects, the ISCTE has grown considerably with the help of the PS. The question remains: as a former curator while he was President of the Chamber of Lisbon, what is the ISCTE? Is it a public higher education institution or is it a PS satellite, entitled to public funds to use former PS leaders and distribute diplomas to future PS frameworks? [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u74	For a request for clarification, you have the floor of Mr. André Ventura, from arrive.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister of Finance, the document that brings to this House today is not a Stability Programme, is a draft of its predecessor, given to this House with a huge lack of shame, with the ticks of an absolute majority that the PS thinks is absolute power, but which in this Parliament will find a serious dose of opposition. The Public Finance Council and the Technical Unit for Budgetary Support say that this document violates the law and, nevertheless, the PS has the power to come to this House to present it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u76	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u77	It is a sign of a good beginning of legislation, supported by Mr. Miguel Matos Chaves... [[PS Members' laughs.]] I apologize for the lapse in the name. As I said, it is a sign of a good beginning of legislation that you have come to say that this document is a Stability Programme, when the main financial organisations say it violates the law. We know that this is not Fernando Medina's PEC (Stability and Growth Programme), it is João Leon's, which, in fact, made it necessary to allocate government funding to the institution where he now went to work.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u78	All right! [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u79	It is curious that today we have known that, of the various institutions that requested funding from the Socialist Government, only the ISCTE, where John Leon went to work, has succeeded. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u80	Nobody wants to discuss the program!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u81	That is why, Minister, the arrival today called your predecessor to this Parliament — which we hope to have the Socialist Party's agreement, even if there is nothing to hide — to explain this case. It is still curious, Mr Minister, that there the pulpit has said that we have faced times in Europe that we could not imagine for some time. It's true. The difference is that we stopped imagining to see and the government continued to do absolutely nothing about the new scenario in Europe. I therefore ask you if you know that today the IMF has reduced the forecast of Portuguese economic growth to 4 %, since as Minister of Finance, it has not said a single word about it. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u82	The Portuguese will lose purchasing power, lose growth and we have a minister here who doesn't say anything about it. [[Congrats from the CH.]] But to be honest, Minister, more embarrassing than I have heard you is to listen to MP Jamila Madeira of the Socialist Party, who said, with that authority that only socialists know to have,... [[CH's laughs.]] ...that the right — this vague and abstract thing that is the right — has only one program, which is austerity.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u83	It's not right, it's extreme right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u84	I would like to remind you, Madam Member, that it was neither the PSD, nor the Liberal Initiative, nor the Arrival that brought the troika to Portugal. It was the Socialist Party and José Socrates who brought the troika to Portugal! [[Congrats from the CH.]] You brought the troika to Portugal! Yes, it was the Socialist Party that allowed the cutting of pensions, the cutting of wages, the increase of the tolls, with a minister of whom I know they are ashamed, but who was yours, who was a « ferocious animal», sitting where Fernando Medina is now, and who is called José Socrates. The story doesn't go away, it's paid, and you have to pay for the disastrous story you had in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]] However, honourable Member, to come to talk about employment, when the region for which she was elected has the highest unemployment rate in the country, a rate that last year was 10 %, 2 %... [[Protests from PS Eurico Brilliant Dias and Jamila Madeira Members.]] Today, if I were elected by the Algarve, I would come here, look at the algae and say: «I'm sorry I took you to this abyss in which they have been living for years! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Protests of PS Members.]] The Minister for Finance also said that we are on the right track: less deficit and less debt, which is what is needed. Less debt? Oh, my God! In April, the debt reached the record of 262, EUR 1 billion! And you're here talking about less debt? Oh, my God! [[PS protests.]] You want to throw sand at whose eyes? You are the face, the face, the stamp printed in Portuguese of the brutal increase in debt that we will all pay in the coming years in this country. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Now, to finish, Mr President, because I know that I am already a long way off, we have to say this: what a bad beginning of legislation, Minister! Right now, who comes to this House with the smile we all like to see you, the officials of the Ministry of Finance say they haven't received their salary. What a shame for a country that says it is at the forefront and evolving so much, when, a few hours ago, the officials of the Ministry of Finance said they had not received their salary. It is a good beginning of legislation: more debt, more unemployment, debt to employees and a debt almost equal to that left in the Lisbon Chamber for all of us to pay.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u85	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u86	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u87	That's what we have from the PS, with the support of the extreme left, and that's what we're going to be here to fight over the next few years. [[Ch's applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u88	For a request for clarification, Mr. Miguel Costa Matos of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, it is seen that no one wants to discuss the Stability Programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]] The PSD and now the Arrival are accusing the government of supposed majority tics, but it is curious to recall the last Stability Programme that the PSD — and at the time Mr André Ventura was a PSD militant! — submitted to the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was in this programme that they seriously proposed to cut Portuguese pensions by 600 million euros alongside Brussels. [[It's true!]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u90	And when the time has come for the elections, they have already denied it. It was at that time that he presented a calculator for the return of the supertax, which, before the elections, returned a lot, after the elections, had returned almost nothing. These, yes, were the tics of the majority of the PSD and Mr. André Ventura. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]] If any tick was revealed here, it was even the bad loser tick of the PSD, of whom it invented problems in form, to escape the debate in substance. It's just, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, what really disqualifies the Assembly of the Republic and the debate is your lack of ideas, is the lack of proposals they have for the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u91	I haven't read the program!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u92	It is from those who refuse to see that our country today is growing seven times more than it was growing in the previous 15 years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And perhaps your Eurostat is broken, but I am glad that the PSD asks how to make the country's economy grow because it was even with the Socialist Party government that we made our economy grow more than that of the European Union. It was also with this government that we made wages grow by 25%, we put public debt down, we managed to get the first surplus of the history of our democracy. And it's also from someone who wants to escape the debate. They want to anticipate the measures every four years so that they can come and say that after all, the government is not shaping the measures, increasing the measures according to developments.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u93	What about the program? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u94	Well, this is a government that presents EUR 1800 million to combat inflation, to support businesses and families. Therefore, Mr Minister, given that this Government honours its electoral commitments, which seriously deals with the Stability Programme, which protects the country from risks, reducing public debt, protecting families and businesses, and protecting their income, I ask you who the empty criticisms of the opposition intend to protect. [[Not empty!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u95	When they want to put the same taxes on the richest and the poorest, who do they want to protect? What opposition is this and what is your agenda? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u96	Having concluded that these are the requests for clarification, I give the floor to Mr. Minister for Finance, Fernando Medina, to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u97	Mr President, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, I would also like to thank you for your speech and to tell you clearly: it is not the government that devalues the debate, the PSD is devaluing the debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And it is devaluing the debate, because it is not contributing to its substance, which is on the way, on the guidance, on the path we must follow, from the economic and financial point of view, in the coming years of the country. It is that, throughout this debate time, there has been something we have not heard, which was precisely what the PSD's position on this matter was.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u98	It's known!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u99	He said that the strategy of recent years was the strategy of divergence, of impoverishment. I do not know, but I believe that the honourable Member has already found that this is not the view that the Portuguese have, and have not, in particular in the last elections, when they have strengthened their confidence in the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]] The truth is, Mr, that from 2016 to 2021, taking the year of 2020, Portugal converged with the European average. And this was the only convergence period since Portugal is in the single currency,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u100	That's going to the Polygraph!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u101	... withdrawing the year 2017, in which it also happened. Now, ladies and gentlemen, to ignore that this has happened is serious because it means a path that the country is able to do. It is because there is a modern Portugal, there is an innovative Portugal, there is a qualified Portugal, there is a Portugal of people investing in innovation, companies investing in export, which are able to break the difficulties of so many and so many decades to succeed in the internal market. And you call the IMF report, yes, the IMF report, with the projections you have made. I do not know whether the honourable Member has found anything about the IMF report and other international projections: either the IMF or the European Central Bank say that Portugal will continue to converge with the European Union from 2022 to 2026. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As long as the PSD does not realize this, the PSD simply does not understand the country's progress.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u102	Yeah, the trend! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u103	Mr Guimarães Pinto, I would like to thank you for your intervention. We're at a time of great volatility. With regard to the data and forecasts contained in the Stability Programme and the State Budget, which I had the opportunity to present, there were changes in the projections of some indicators — a slight decrease in growth, a rise with the meaning of inflation — and that is what you can expect to happen in a context of volatility, with the decrease of some indicators and projections and the increase of others, we do not know.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u104	In two weeks!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u105	But, Mr President, there is one thing I can assure you, is that on the Government's side you will always find a culture of respect and truth, which is to always transmit the best information available and always make your forecasts based on the best information available and not on the pessimism of some, on the optimism of others or on what may be of interest at any time. Don't! What we saw in the State Budget was the new data, known after the approval of the Stability Programme, which were precisely the projections...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u106	Two weeks! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u107	Exactly! March inflation was known after the approval of the Stability Programme and what I had the opportunity to do was immediately to correct these projections for the State budget, adapting to what is the largest consensus of the institutions on economic projections. With regard to the other subject, I have already had the opportunity to observe the initiatives which the parties have put forward and, in this context, all the clarifications will be provided and, of course, second the words of my predecessor on this matter. I would like to end sympathetically, saying that I believe that we are from the same school, which is the University of Porto.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u108	And friends too!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u109	Ah! That's good!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u110	Mr André Ventura, you have an intervention style which is that of...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u111	Aren't you gonna thank me? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u112	...to put on everything that says a great level of enthusiasm and excitement, which always leads your bench to do it...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u113	Unlike you!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u114	Yeah, unlike me.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u115	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u116	But there is also something that is contrary to me. Do you know what it is? It is that you are not telling the truth and I am telling the truth. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]] It is very well observed, very well observed! In fact, I have to agree with you. It is that all you said is purely and simply a lie to those who are the data of the economy. He said: "But the country has more debt than it had, the governance of the PS is indebted to the country. Do not keep on seeking. ” Well, debt in 2016, 131 % of the Product; in 2017, 126 %;...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u117	In numbers! It's not in percentages!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u118	... in 2018, 121 %; in 2019, 116 %. And, taking out the pandemic, Mr. Depute... [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u119	I call for silence in the Chamber to hear Mr. Minister for Finance. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u120	Member, after the pandemic, 135 % of the product in 2020 ; 127, 4 % in 2021,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u121	The values! Numbers!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u122	...the biggest drop in debt weight since World War II. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]] And let me also tell you that in the State budget for 2022, the debt will be 120, 7%, which will be a new record in the decline in public debt after World War II. Mr President, on unemployment, he says that unemployment increases. Unemployment in 2015, 12, 9 %...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u123	No Algarve!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u124	You didn't hear well!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u125	No, no! He said, in his speech, for me, generic,... [[CH protests.]] ...I apologize: « Unemployment increases. Do not keep on seeking. ” Now unemployment in 2015 was 12, 9 %; unemployment at the beginning of the year was 6 %; and the last known figure of unemployment in February was 5, 9 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Isn't unemployment still falling? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Isn't unemployment still falling? Oh, my God! Aren't we in a situation that's getting closer to full employment? Oh, my God! And is that not the result of the economic policy that has been developed in recent years and how we have been able, during the pandemic, to protect employment, protect incomes and ensure faster recovery? Oh, my God! [[CH protests.]] Mr. Miguel Costa Matos, I thank you for the reminder you brought to this House. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u126	It is that the memory that brought this House is very important, because without memory there is no future. And it is very important that we always keep in mind the memory that has brought here about the policies of other times.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u127	« Without memory there is no future»! José Socrates!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u128	And I would like to thank you for stressing precisely what this programme brings and what we are trying to show in this programme. It is true that we live in a time of rare uncertainty. We live at a time when we have the uncertainties of a pandemic, an absolutely extraordinary phenomenon that no one of our generation knew and with which he was not even prepared to deal with, and when we are not yet recovered from this pandemic process, we face the process of war in Europe, with profound economic, geopolitical and social consequences. in this context, we are able to define a line, a path, which will naturally adapt to concrete policies, in its details, in its realisations, contexts and rhythms, but which is very firm in relation to its orientation and its commitments: growth of the economy, convergence with the single currency, reduction of public debt. And that is why, in this Stability Programme, as it is more clearly and more clearly expressed, already on Friday, in the Bill No 1 / XV / 1. the — which will be voted on in this House — will be one of the most important measures to respond to the environment we live in, which is the reduction in fuel tax, which will allow the reduction of 72% of the increase — and 50% of the increase in gas oil — that this crisis has brought. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is our commitment and this is our resolution: with rigour, with truth, but with great determination and confidence, we will follow this path of growth, convergence and reduction of public debt. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u129	Thank you very much, Minister for Finance, for the clarifications you have given to Parliament. We will now enter the stage of intervention by the various parliamentary groups. I call your attention to the time that is left to you, because now we will be stricter in using that time. For a first intervention, it has to do with the Resolution Project No. 24 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Developing the country, valuing work and workers, promoting national production, breaking with external dependence, has the floor Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Once again the Assembly of the Republic welcomes part of this ritual of submission of the country to the supranational power of Brussels. The ceremony is carried out with the presentation by the government of a so-called stability programme, pointing out scenarios, criteria, goals, which serve, in essence, to show and validate with bureaucrats that they must stamp a previous visa. There will be more authorization than budgetary options, which should be an expression of sovereignty, but which are subordinate. Following the poster of the European Semester and the Pact — said — of Stability and Growth, we have thus presented a programme that brings stability in the name, but which denies it to the country. And why should the question be asked, stability for whom? For workers, pensioners, who see wages or pensions getting shorter and shorter for a decent life? Oh, my God! Stability for professionals — and users! - the National Health Service ( SNS) and the generality of public services, where the lack of means is chronic and the lack of staff is shocking? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u131	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u132	Stability for micro and small enterprises, for the productive sectors, crushed by economic groups in costs and unfair competition and for an increasing degradation of purchasing power and domestic demand? Oh, my God! The stability that is being discussed here, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is the stagnation in investment, it is the freezing of wages, it is the backwardness of social and economic rights in the face of the constraints of the budgetary policy imposed by the European Union. The PS government assumes itself as enthusiastic defender of this obsession of deficit, such as alpha and omega of our existence, exacerbating restrictions precisely when the problems are more demanding and demanding answers and resources. In the right accounts of the PS and the Government, the response to national problems does not count only blind obedience to Brussels and to markets. That is the way in which the government follows in an acritical manner.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u133	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u134	Forgetting that, in the last 20 years, with the adoption of the euro rules — well present in the documents now presented — Portuguese public debt has fired, the economy has practically stagnated, with long periods of recession, investment has fallen, public services have deteriorated, precariousness and exploitation have increased. To insist on this will correspond to the deepening of the policies that have weakened and accentuated the dependence of the country. And, moreover, there is still the indisputable question of the credibility of the foundations of these options — with the infamous doctrine of inevitability — with predictions from the government itself that the government rejects. The government provides for an inflation rate of 2, 9 % in 2022, and 4 % in an adverse scenario, forecasts already exceeded by reality. The Banco de Portugal projections point to an inflation of 4 % in 2022, which the Government already assumes in the proposal of the State budget for 2022, which may be up to 5 %, 9 %. The macroeconomic scenario presented does not correspond to reality, especially in the context of instability and uncertainty at the international level. Looking at such scenarios, for national reality and for priorities, some of them already stated by the government itself, then the conclusion is obvious: the criteria and options of the Stability Pact are contrary to national interest. In fact, it is particularly revealing that in this debate the Government will try to impose the rewriting of history, repeat falsehoods already denied, passing the blame on the CFP for its refusal and the systematic difficulties which it has always placed on the increase in pension pensions, which the CFP has proposed and defended, and which was the PS government which has stopped, and which is halting. The government was expected to have more respect for the Portuguese reformers and more respect for the truth. It is increasingly clear for the absolute majority to serve, but we will not fail to affirm and defend another policy and another way of being in politics.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u135	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u136	If you really want to say that you are telling the truth, you must stop telling the CFP what you said in this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u137	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u138	It is only that, Mr. President, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the country is not doomed to this journey without exit. As the CFP has always stated, it is national interests that must prevail in political decisions rather than submission to the single currency and other European Union taxes. Today, more than ever, responding to the problems of the present and preparing the country for the future demand other options and other policies. The option for valuing workers' rights and wages, as a condition and objective of economic and social development, for raising social protection, for better reforms and pensions. The option to control and fix maximum prices for essential goods, in particular fuels, electricity, gas, food products. The option of reducing public debt through greater economic growth, combined with the prospect of recovery of monetary sovereignty, freeing resources for investment and public services. The choice to defend the national production apparatus, replacing imports by national production, creating jobs, reducing external dependence and exposure, dynamizing the economic fabric, in particular micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. The option for strengthening public services, the National Health Service, the public school, public transport, culture, housing promotion, the public network of day care and other social equipment, such as homes. They are fundamental options for a sovereign and developed Portugal. And the political courage to take this path implies, of course, refusing the options based on submission to the European Union and to the euro, as well as the instruments of conditioning of the country resulting there, affirming the sovereign right of the Portuguese State to decide on its future. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u139	Mr Bruno Dias, we stress the denial that you have given your speech, since you have left 5 seconds, which is the time to answer, if you want, a question from Mrs Vera Braz of the Socialist Party. You have the floor, to that end, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, whom I welcome, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Bruno Dias, the CFP says that this government is obsessed with reducing the deficit. For I must remind you that this requirement of budgetary responsibility to reduce the deficit is the same as that which allowed a fight against the harmful effects of the pandemic; that it allowed to protect jobs; that it allowed 300 000 workers in layoff to receive their wages; that it allowed to strengthen social support. Is it or is it not true, Mr President, that it was this budgetary responsibility that allowed us to combat this pandemic crisis further? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, the draft resolution of the CFP repeats several times that there are restrictions and restrictions on public investment, public services, wages, pensions. It speaks of an increase in inequality, an increase in poverty. Mr President, this repetition is certainly just to convince you yourself.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u141	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u142	We need to remind you that we have the biggest public investment. We have the PRR, we have the PT2030 ( Portugal 2030 ), we have European funds from that Europe that the CFP rejects, but that will greatly contribute to public and private investment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr, we have a new strengthening of the National Health Service, plus EUR 700 million. Do you remember how much we have strengthened the SNS since 2015? As far as the national minimum wage is concerned — as Mr Minister has already mentioned — he recalls how much we have already increased the national minimum wage in the last six years?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u143	They're forgotten! [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u144	With regard to pensioners, there will be 1 million and 900 thousand pensioners who will see their pensions increased with this Budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u145	All right! [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u146	And, Mr President, I am sorry, but I am going to have to repeat what Mr Minister said: if the families, if pensioners do not have their improved living conditions, it is because the CFP and all those who have dropped the State budget for 2022 have contributed to this. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u147	Maybe, that's why they didn't vote for PCP! Open... [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u148	Mr Bruno Dias has a great challenge: he has 5 seconds to answer these questions from Mrs Vera Braz. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u149	Mr. President, I promise you I'll try to answer, I don't know if in 5 seconds, but let's see.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u150	It's over!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u151	Mrs Vera Braz, I wanted to start by saying that it is very bad to repeat falsehoods. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u152	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u153	It is that falsehoods must be denied, they must not be repeated. And the Prime Minister himself, António Costa, has already managed to deny this lie in which you insist. [[PS protests.]] During this time when we found ourselves, even before the new State budget was approved, there were all legal conditions for the government to increase — as the CFP defends — pensions for people. [[PS protests and PCP counter-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u154	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u155	So once and for all, it is appropriate to end the spread and repetition of this lie.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u156	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u157	Even if it repeats a thousand times, it doesn't become true. Mr President, there would be much more to answer, but let me just add the following: it was precisely because the draconian rules of the deficit were set aside that it was possible to respond to the pandemic. If they were to apply — and if they were to apply the draconian rules of the Stability Pact, it was impossible to respond to the problems of the country, and you know that.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u158	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u159	That's why they were suspended! And investment restrictions are not in speech or role, they are in practice, as you well know. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u160	Your effort is remarkable, but it really failed to fit in the 5 seconds. For an intervention, about the Resolution Project No. 25 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Budget policy for the growth of expenditure and public investment, now speaks to Mrs Mariana Mortagua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u161	Mr. President, Minister Fernando Medina comments on the Oscars without seeing the films, because if he had seen the film, he would know that the first season was a ticket disaster: EUR 3500 million charged to the Portuguese by the ruinous sales contract signed by the PS. And if you had seen the film, you would also know that since day 1, the Left Block requires that the accounts of the assets for deferred taxes be disclosed, which are a financing to the New Bank. Since day 1 we've been talking about this! However, I thank you for transparency because you did what you did not do in the presentation of the State budget and admitted that the State will invest more than 130 million in the capital of the New Bank in 2022. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr Minister, this Stability Programme is an outdated programme, the discussion that counts is what we will have in the State budget. But the government has accounts to lend to the country, because it doesn't make an account. The 2021 deficit was 4, 3 % ; after all, it was 2, 8 % below almost all the countries of the European Union. The 2022 deficit was 3, 2 %; after all, it was 1, 8 %. Mr. Minister may think they're brilliant, you may think they're good student merits, I think they're tricks. They are tricks that the government systematically presents, in fact, is the same trick as the expenditure that is not executed and the revenue that exceeds expectations. And the question I ask you, Minister, is: at what price? The 2021 trick had a price, and that price was Portugal from the least invested countries to respond to the pandemic; that price was the rise of impoverishment during the pandemic; that price is more indebted companies; that price was the moratoriums that people were thrown into the bank because there were not enough support. The price of the trick, in 2021, are schools without teachers ; the price of the trick, in 2021, are health professionals who despair to respond by the SNS and people who increasingly discredit the SNS. And in recent months it has also done good to the government, to feed this trick, an extra increase in VAT (value added tax) and ISP (oil and energy product tax ) due to inflation. Wages are punished, but the government insists on not lowering the electricity tax by 23 % and not lowering the additional VAT. I repeat the question: who won with this will shine? It is because the government may be intoxicated with the idea of the absolute majority, it may even think that, in the short term, the ideas of the right accounts are useful, but I say to you, look at the discontent that grows in society, look at the idea of injustice of the tax burden, which later does not have a correspondence in public services, in health, in public education, and ask yourself: who gains from this policy? What ideas emerge from this policy, which does not invest in social justice or the social state? The Minister is right: the PSD has no alternative to this Stability Programme. But have you ever thought about why the PSD has no alternative? Listen well, and carefully, the words of Mrs.Jamila Madeira : first, it reduces deficit and debt and this allows growth and, after growth, the distribution and public investment come. The PSD wouldn't say any better and that's why it doesn't say anything.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u162	All right! All right! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u163	That is why the PSD has no alternative, that is the policy of the Socialist Party. The PS had a strike in 2021 and instead of using it, it was prepared to do the same, but worse, because it adds up to the inflation trick: 4 % to cut wages and pensions from those who do not have other incomes. Meanwhile, large companies contributing to the increase in inflation — Galp, EDP ( Energies of Portugal ), the large distribution — present record profits, distribute these profits record by their shareholders and win record bonuses for their key executives. Mr Minister, the Government has already said that it will freeze all public service salaries, it has already guaranteed, in addition to 0, 9 %, an inflation of almost 4 %; it has already said that it will not lower VAT from light. For a while we had a hope that it would be to tax the big profits of large companies, but soon we lost that hope: there will be no rate that the IMF or the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development) recommend. And, therefore, I return the same question to you: who wins this policy? It's not who works, it's not who's a pensioner, it's not the social state. The merit of the right accounts may be very appealing to a Minister of Finance, for Mr Minister, as it has already been for Minister Centeno, but the price of this merit is paid by all Portuguese and is also paid for an idea of democracy based on public investment and the quality of public services. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u164	You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mr Hugo Costa, of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u165	Mr. President, Mr. Minister for Finance, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, the first question the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group would like to ask the Left Block is whether the Left Block is against healthy public finances, whether the Left Block is against healthy public finances, we will reduce debt and, of course, we will have low deficits. What's the alternative? What is the alternative that the Left Block presents to us? Is it more deficit and debt? Is that what is presented here?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u166	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u167	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u168	Then, Mrs Deputy, you put here, and well, the issue of the inflationist phenomenon. But, on this point, I would like to ask the honourable Member: 1, 8 billion euros in countercyclical measures on inflation are not a correct measure of the government? What is the alternative to the Left Block?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u169	You don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u170	Measures aimed at energy, at the stock of essential goods! What is the alternative to these measures? He also spoke about companies, but I remember that the simplified layoff, at the time of the pandemic, meant more than EUR 3, 5 billion in support of companies. What was the alternative of the Left Block to these measures? It is still strange, because often the Left Block does not present measures for companies. Therefore, we like to understand what the alternatives are and what are the answers to the business sector. It is that if there was a measure of great scope, in the pandemic, it was that of the simplified layoff. I recall again: EUR 3, EUR 5 billion. And employment data, economic growth data—and Portugal continues to grow above the European average—are significant and demonstrative. So, honourable Member, one last question: what is the importance of public investment in dealing with this issue? Public investment has been growing in Portugal in recent years. I therefore question the position of the Left Block in relation to public investment and whether it can increase, if the deficit and the public debt—and the Left Block apparently defends that they continue to grow — continue to exist. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u171	To answer, and I remember that you have 39 seconds for this purpose, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortagua.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u172	Mr. President, Mr. Hugo Costa, the Left Block is against public services at risk. The Left Block is against the degradation of the SNS, which we have been checking, is against public schools without teachers. The Left Block is against the feeling that grows in people who wonder why they pay taxes, if the public services they receive in return do not have the quality they expect. Yeah, we're against that! And we have a different idea of public finances: we think that when the economy grows well, when that growth is sustainable, public finances are also sustainable. Sustainable public finances are the reflection of a sustainable economy and not the opposite. The PS has already thought so in the past, but then changed its opinion and now its speech is equal to that of the PSD: first, the reduction of deficit, the reduction of debt and, then, perhaps, economic growth. Perhaps this strategy explains why economic growth is lower now and revisions have been declining. Perhaps that explains, now, because the country has no answer for public services. [[Protests of PS Members.]] The honourable Member also asked me whether the answer from the Block to inflation is to cut in wages, allow energy revenues and lower the price of gas, throwing the cost of the price deficit paid by consumers. Of course it's not! You can be sure that this is not the Left Block response because the priority is to protect wages.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u173	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u174	No worker should see his salary cut from inflation, only because the government has as its policy to protect the profits of large companies. Control prices! Do you want to control an inflation driven by the offer? Control prices and control profits from large companies! There is an alternative, if that is the will of the Government. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u175	For an intervention, about the Resolution Project No. 26 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — It recommends that the Government introduce a genuine Stability Programme, including a Portugal return strategy to convergence with European countries, has the floor of Mr Afonso Oliveira, of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u176	Mr. President, Mr. Minister for Finance, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The last two years are the best evidence that nothing, or very little, can be assumed as acquired. The future always has an enormous degree of unpredictableness and, in many cases, surprises us without any condescension. In two years, the world has changed profoundly. The global pandemic has caused profound changes in individual and social behaviour, destroyed companies and created enormous difficulties for thousands of other companies fighting for survival today. Two years after the outbreak of the pandemic, we have a war in Ukraine, the brutality of a meaningless war. But what does this have to do with the Stability Programme? With the Government Program? With the State budget for 2022? For the Portuguese, they have everything for the government, unfortunately, they have very little. The world has changed, the reality has changed, and the facts should force governments to change policies. In fact, public policies that do not consider the reality of little use. And the government that has just taken over already has a strong allergy to reality. As we all have already noted, today's debate on the Stability Programme goes on to say that it is absolutely crucial to discuss, for example, the alarming divergence in Europe in which Portugal has been plunged over the past 20 years, and very marked in the last six — that is clear and indisputable — the policies that should be taken to reverse this trend, the structural problems that prevent our development and accentuate our divergence in Europe. These are central issues, Minister. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD, for this debate, makes a very clear recommendation to the Government : it challenges it to present a genuine Stability Programme which includes a strategy for Portugal's return to convergence with European countries. Only with a growth strategy will we be able to create more future for the Portuguese. The Government cannot have the attitude of presenting a simple role in the construction of a stability programme and be very pleased with its decision, as we have already seen in the debate. As you well know, the public positions of independent entities, and has already been referred here, are crystalline in the analysis they make of the Stability Programme. Notice only: the Council of Public Finance has declined its request to take a decision on the macroeconomic scenario and has given the Government an indication to present, and I quote, "an effective Stability Programme". I repeat, the Public Finance Council has not spoken on the Stability Programme. And you know why? Because he doesn't exist! This stability programme does not exist, and that is why the Council does not give its opinion. [[PSD applause.]] See what UTAO says: « The Stability Programme delivered to the Assembly of the Republic does not meet the legal requirements and is surprised that it has been submitted by a government that would not be able to execute it. » Still says: « The substantive insufficiency in the content of the Stability Programme limits the interest in the projections presented. "Nouns", Minister! We are talking about the substance of the Programme, we are not talking about the formal issue entirely! UTAO adds that « (...) the careful reading of the document does not allow whether the objectives of this Stability Programme contain budgetary space to accommodate new policy measures(...) ». See also this final note by UTAO: « The document omits the measures corresponding to new policy guidelines between 2022 and 2026, decoupling the author(...) » — read the Government — « (...) of any commitment to strategic guidelines of economic policy and budgetary policy for the overallity of his mandate. » They tie up the government completely of any commitment. This is what is written in the UTAO report! By translating what I just mentioned, in a very transparent language, I could say that this proposal for a stability programme, submitted by the Government, does not serve anything and the Government is not bound by any commitment to this programme. They are two independent entities, the Council of Public Finance and UTAO, which clearly define the total absence of the document we are trying to discuss here today. But it is essential that it be very clear in this debate that the Government, in order to comply with the Budget Framework Act, should present a medium- and long-term strategy and should detail the financial effects, the timetable for implementation and the justification for measures. The problem, as has already been clear in this debate, is that the proposed Stability Programme for the period 2022 to 2026 is totally omited both in terms of economic and budgetary policy measures to be adopted in this period, as well as in updating the multiannual framework for public expenditure and revenue. The Government has submitted a document which is not really a stability programme. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Much more serious than the formal question or the issue we have discussed here, whether or not to present this document in time by this government, is that the Stability Programme does not answer fundamental and decisive issues for our collective life. There are questions to be asked: what ambition for Portugal for the next four years? What will the government do differently than it did in the past to reverse the rate of impoverishment of Portugal and the Portuguese? Austerity, with a reduction in the purchasing power of families, is the new page of this socialist majority government? If the Stability Programme is presented in a context of deep disparity from Portugal vis-à-vis Europe, how is it possible that the Government does not have the slightest concern about responding to public policies that allow to counter this very worrying trend? To make everything very clear, look at what we are talking about, which has already been mentioned here today in the debate by my colleague Jorge Paulo Oliveira, and I reaffirm: in 2015, the per capita Portuguese GDP was equal to 78% of the European average, today, is equal to 74%; in 2015, Portugal was 18. the position in Europe's 27 prosperity ranking today is 21. the position; in the last six years, the 14 Cohesion countries, in addition to Portugal, have grown to an average annual of 2, 5 % per year, Portugal has increased by less than half, i.e. 1, 1 %. This disparity has led Portugal to become more and more close to the poorest country in the European Union. The big problem is that the governments of the Socialist Party do not place economic growth at the centre of priorities, absolutely decisive for the country we want to be; the competitiveness of the economy, because there is no competitiveness, there is no sustainable economic growth; productivity, stagnant over the years and absolutely decisive factor for sustained wage growth; the suffocating tax burden on families, which crushes income and destroys purchasing power; the brutal tax burden on businesses, which withdraws competitive capacity and inhibits investment; inequalities, which are accentuated and now with great potential for aggravation, in view of the known figures of inflation. Never do the governments of the Socialist Party — this is the problem — put in the centre of Portugal and the Portuguese! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Indeed, the key vectors for our competitiveness are victims of the lack of ambition and vision that prevents Portugal from converging with our European partners. This lack of ambition was visible in the Government's options in the application of the RPP funds. It focused PRR funds on the public sector and wasted the opportunity to bet on businesses and private investment as an essential factor for creating more and better employment and promoting the growth of wages and average wage in Portugal. The Government of the absolute socialist majority, now, today, here, has no excuse to fail. And there is also no excuse for devaluing essential documents for the debate on the strategy that defines our collective path. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: That is why the PSD presents the draft resolution submitted to this House. There's still time, enough for the government to want! Without a real stability programme, there is no debate on the Stability Programme. The Government must only follow the recommendation of the Council of Public Finance and present an 'effective Stability Programme'. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is no excuse to start failing, and the government has already failed today. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u177	Mr Afonso Oliveira, Mr Afonso Oliveira, wrote to ask for clarifications, Mr Carlos Pereira, of the Socialist Party. You have the floor, Mr. Carlos Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mr Afonso Oliveira, the bench of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group can only be astonished by the interventions of the PSD bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u179	It's normal!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u180	In the face of a stability programme that guarantees economic growth for the country, which ensures deficit control, which ensures debt reduction, even in the context of difficulties and forecasts we all know, the PSD emerges in this debate by disqualifying it, and I explain why.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u181	That's good!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u182	Mrs. Deputies Afonso Oliveira and Jorge Paulo Oliveira, divergence is not what the country has meant from 2016 to 2019. What has happened in Portugal is convergence with the European Union. I know that whenever the PSD was unable to talk about convergence, it was not possible to say that the country was growing above the European Union average. It was with the Socialist Party, with this government and with this strategy that it was possible to speak in convergence and grow above the average. [[P.S.'s applause.]] When the Mrs. PSD members exchange convergence by difference, are disqualifying the debate and this is not acceptable even for the people of Portugal, who are waiting for the PSD, of course, to contribute to the right decisions and options for the Stability Programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, in conclusion, the honourable Member spoke in impoverishment. As the PSD has systematically looked for GDP per capita statistics, I looked for poverty risk statistics by 2020. Right-wing Members have presented some countries as being over Portugal, but I will give two examples that have recently been presented: Estonia and Lithuania have a risk of poverty of 23, 3 % and 25 % respectively, and Portugal has a risk of 19, 8 % respectively. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]] Something the country is doing in order to ensure that economic growth and the right accounts can be combined with a good distribution of income, so that the country and the people live better.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u183	How wonderful! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u184	That's very important, and the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen have no answer to that. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u185	Mr Afonso Oliveira has the floor to give clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u186	Mr President, Mr Carlos Pereira, I thank you for your request for clarification. What disqualifies the debate, honourable Member, is this inability of the Socialist Party and the Government realize that they cannot bring to this debate a programme which is not a programme,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u187	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u188	...is a blank sheet. It's as clear as water, it's not worth even discussing this! That, therefore, disqualifies the debate. The document does not include measures with new policy guidelines, it does not include any measures. The document does not bind the Government to the future. This is clear, clear as water! I don't understand how they talk about disqualifying the debate. I ask you: what public growth policies does the document provide? There are no planned public growth policies, which would be crucial in this programme. What measures to increase the competitiveness of the economy? There is no concern about this central issue of the Portuguese economy. What disqualifies the debate is the PS trying to find an argument that is no argument and not see reality. [[Protests by PS MP Miguel Matos.]] If Mr Pereira did not understand everything he said — sometimes it happens, I confess that sometimes it happens — I can provide my intervention and will then evaluate it. Explain to the Portuguese how there is no impoverishment of the country. Explain to Portuguese how inflation is not causing serious problems in people's lives. That's what we need to explain to the Portuguese! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u189	at this time, the government can't give explanations nor can it answer the real question posed to the country, which is this: is the leaf blank or are they going to put austerity there in the future? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u190	Mr Afonso Oliveira, I thank you for the discipline in time management. To intervene and present Resolution Projects Nos 27 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — By rejecting the Stability Programme 2022 - 2026 and 28 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — It recommends that the Government complement the Stability Programme with an investment programme in national defence, Mr Rui Afonso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u191	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: We have tabled a draft resolution for the rejection of the Stability and Growth Programme, and we have heard that we hope that the whole opposition will be welcomed.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u192	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u193	The Stability Programme is not legalist and in three weeks it is clearly out of date.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u194	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u195	It is not legalist, because it does not fully comply with the provisions of the Budget Framework Act, more specifically, because it does not present new economic and budgetary policies, as well as the absence of a multi-annual framework of public expenditure with the budget ceilings, a legal imperative of that Law.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u196	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u197	in this framework, the Technical Unit of Budgetary Support also notes, in its assessment of the Stability Program, the lack of response of the Ministry of Finance to provide additional data and information to enable the evaluation of the plan under review. On this lack of response to requests for data for assessment, it is worth mentioning the report: « The lack of transparency for UTAO is, first of all, a lack of consideration for the sovereignty organ that UTAO technically assists and for the Portuguese who read the studies of UTAO. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Congrats from the CH.]] Ex. Mr. President, Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State and Mr. Members: At the time the Stability Programme was presented we already had a month of war in Ukraine. On March 16, the American Federal Reserve had already announced the first rise in reference interest rates—it had not done so since December 2008! — and signalled six new climbs for the years 2022, 2023 and 2024.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u198	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u199	It is a clear sign that the Fed (Federal Reserve System) believed that inflation had come to stay.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u200	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u201	This Stability Programme is autistic, especially with regard to the macroeconomic scenario, and it is becoming increasingly intentional. Clearly, this government is increasingly placing itself in a state economy and increasingly in a market economy. All right, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that the highest increase in tax revenue occurs in the IRS (tax on income of natural persons) and VAT, taxes which directly affect the purchasing power of families, in particular the middle class. This stability plan mirrors the idyllic construction of an increasing state at the expense of the continued impoverishment of Portuguese families and companies. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u202	To intervene and present the Resolution Project No. 29 / XV / 1. a (L) — A dynamic economy for a society of dignity, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u203	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Faces and Dear Colleagues: There are two ways to look at a document like the one that is presented to us today. Or we look at him as the fulfilment of an obligation, a routine, a ritual, as was called here, or as an occasion to strategically think about the Country. If we look at it in a way, we produce what the PSD requires: instead of this Stability Programme, another stability program. If we look elsewhere, in anticipation of the future, we will see, as the Free defends, that a stability programme which is not, at the same time, a strategic programme is a waste of opportunity, because, by this attitude, everything we do to follow in relation to the context in which we are. For example, when it comes to inflation, a document that is a mere compliance with a routine, thinking mainly of the environment, will look at the inflationary increase with a fear that does not dare say its name, which is that the European Central Bank raises the interest rate and therefore public finances remain unsustainable. A document that strategically thinks the country acts differently on inflation, not looking at it as we did in the 1970s, as if it were a disease that needs a'recessionary' treatment at the cost of cutting people's wages, but rather, as in other contexts more equivalent to this inflation, which is a wartime inflation, as follows: acting on price formation, helping the economy to be dynamized and people have access to cheaper universal services, reforming the public transport system to save people's daily expenses and so that what has not been done in the past — raise the minimum wage when it should have risen, in a low inflation context — can now be done, acting on people's cost of living. But in order to do so, a decision must be taken which implies political courage, which is a reform of the tax system. To create space for investment where we have to invest, it is necessary for those who make extraordinary profits in extraordinary times to have to pay, allowing there to be room for budgetary manoeuvre so that we can invest in other areas.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u204	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u205	I will finish, Mr. President. They can't always be the same. The Minister for Finance said that no one could foresee the situation we are in, but we are no longer on this point. We are in a European economy in times of war and, first of all, we need to take steps to benefit those who are losing purchasing power and who need to dynamize the economy from low to high, helping to transform our development model.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u206	To intervene and present the Resolution Project No. 30 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — For a development model focused on growth, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u207	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It seems that one of the unexpected consequences of the current energy crisis is that this PS government is in half-gas. This has been seen in a lot since its takeover, and it is particularly well seen in this budget process, which is also a bit strange. Otherwise, let us see the three parts of this budgetary procedure, which are all a bit at half a dose: the State budget, which, as we have already said, is a medium budget, not by referring only to six months of the year, but, rather, by having no reformist ambition — is a half-tint budget; the Law of the Great Plan Options, which this year is not even discussed in the Assembly, and we will use the April version of 2021, as if the world had not changed; and finally, the Stability Programme, which, if the PS Government could, would not even be discussed — that is, if Brussels did not demand it would not be presented — and was submitted by the previous government a little to half-light. I will not even repeat the arguments that UTAO and the Council of Public Finance have raised on the legality, utility or even the impossibility of expressing their opinion on the scenarios in the Stability Programme, but I will talk about two things which make this document quite clear. The first is that the PS is very satisfied with itself, very satisfied with the state of the country and perhaps half dazzled with its absolute majority. This document states, for example, that in 2021 GDP has risen by 4 %, 9 %, the best growth since 1990, and that this is conveniently omitted as a result of the greatest fall in GDP ever: 8, 4 %, in 2020. [[Applause from the IL.]] It is also said that in 2022 GDP will rise 4, 9 % — let's see! The international organisations that have, however, expressed themselves do not seem to agree, but we will admit that yes— but it is not properly said that we will once again be the last country of the European Union to recover the pre-pandamia levels and it is not said that, by the way of the scenario of the Stability Programme, during this legislature, we will be overcome by Romania and Latvia.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u208	All right! [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u209	The PS is so optimistic that, in this Stability Programme, it can have an adverse scenario that is better, in two of its three years, than the basic scenario. That, my lords, is no longer annoying optimism, it is delusional optimism! [[Applause from the IL.]] Secondly, this Stability Programme clearly makes it clear that the propaganda of the PS, and of this government, continues to try to impinge us a series of half-truths. For example, the Socialist Party boasts that in 2021, the deficit was 3 % lower than the 2020 deficit, but forgets to mention that of these 3 %, 2, 5 % came from the increase in tax revenue. Therefore, it is not the PS that has to boast, because it was the tax effort of the Portuguese that achieved this result. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[PS protests.]] And if the analysis of the deficits of the past is bad, the analysis of the future is worse. In all five years of the scenario of this Stability Programme—in all! — tax revenue will increase more than real GDP. At the end of this period, if this happens, the Portuguese tax burden will exceed 37 %. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] PS's love for taxes has no end. [[Applause from the IL.]] The truth is, ladies and gentlemen, that Portugal cannot continue to bet on the same policies and expect different results, it cannot continue to increase the weight of the State and hope not to continue to be overcome by country after country. Portugal needs to grow, not because the economy is the main policy, but because without it we will not be able to generate more opportunities and better wages for all, nor will we be able to generate resources that allow public services to have the quality that the Portuguese deserve. unlike this PS government, half-gas, half-dark, adept of the half-truths, in the Liberal Initiative we do not do things by half, and therefore our draft resolution presents five lines of an alternative path. Because, yes, there is an alternative path! First: to defuse and simplify taxes, so that people take a higher wage home at the end of the month, and so that companies have incentives to invest. Secondly: to take full transparency in the application of European funds, which we will all one day have to pay — I repeat, all one day, we will have to pay! — opening ways of scrutiny, either in the Assembly of the Republic or in the deepening of the information of the More Transparency Portal. Third: to aim for deburocratization is not only the digitization of processes, they themselves obsolete, but to reverse, for example, the logic of prior authorizations and licensings, authentic labyrinths and long routes-sacres for those who want to do something in this country. Fourth : accept all the evidence that the best public services do not imply only public providers and cannot depend on the refusal of freedom of choice of persons. I leave you this tragic example: it is now almost three months ago that it ended the PPP (public-private partnership) at the Beatriz Ângelo Hospital, of Loures, a hospital that was a reference of quality in health in Portugal, but which now sends most of its parturients to other hospitals because it no longer has anesthetist. In two months, public management managed to kill a hospital like Beatriz Angelo. [[Applause from the IL.]] Finally: to understand that combating climate change, especially with regard to energy transition, cannot depend on statistical and punitive logics, prohibitions and obligations, but rather on the logic of incentives that encourage innovation in this area, creating mechanisms that support their own investment and financing over time. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government and the PS may feel that, in order to remain in power, they do not need to change a great deal, and they can and should go half-way, but the Liberal Initiative thinks otherwise. To grow, Portugal needs to change a lot, adopt liberal policies and go to the whole gas. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u210	Mr Carlos Brás of the Socialist Party called for clarification from Mr João Cotrim Figueiredo, who no longer has time to answer. Therefore, I dare ask whether you intend to do so without waiting for an answer or whether, on the contrary, the Socialist Party will give one minute of its time to the IL. [[Pause.]] The PS indicated that it would ask for clarification in the same way, even if it did not get an answer. [[IL protests.]] Mr Carlos Brás, from the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u211	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, I begin by regretting that the Liberal Initiative did not, in fact, manage time so as to be able to provide clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u212	You don't want an answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u213	If you want an answer you can yield 30 seconds!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u214	It may have been an accident, but it may have been premeditated. In any case, I will leave the matter alone and there will be no opportunity for you to answer me.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u215	I'm e-mailing!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u216	She agreed that the answer would be from the knowledge of all Portuguese. I already have it, what needs to be given this clarification to the Portuguese. The Liberal Initiative presents a proposal that is based on some fallacious assumptions, which are the following: the economic stagnation and social maraism that have placed Portugal in the tail of Europe,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u217	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u218	... the need for a fiscal shock, the need to define or make the state worse,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u219	Not either!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u220	... the liberalization of the health system and the educational system and market logic and self-regulation. But the question I would like to put to you, Mr President, has to do with the first point in your proposal, which is about the competitive shock in fiscal policy, because it was important that, at this or the next opportunity, he should clarify what is the tax shock. Is it a 15% IRS rate for all Portuguese and all types of income? What you must explain to the Portuguese is what in practice means an IRS rate of 15% for all. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this means, for example, that all non-IRS Portuguese would give up and pay taxes. That is, there are over 2 million family aggregates who would pay tax. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u221	Wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u222	Even according to your proposal, a rate of 15% IRS for all would mean that the IRS rate of Mr. Me and the overall rate of Members would no longer be at least 45 % and would be at least 15 %. Is this what the honourable Member is defending for the country? Defend equal taxation for those who earn more and for those who earn less? It is important that you clarify this issue so that we all understand it. So my question is precisely this: do you defend an equal rate of taxation for all incomes and for all amounts, Member of Parliament? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u223	The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, however, gave Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo one minute to answer the questions that Mr. Carlos Brás made.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u224	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u225	You didn't? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u226	No, Mr President, I still have an intervention to make. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u227	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it was the government that took one minute for the honourable Member to answer. The Government is more generous in this respect than the Socialist Party. [[PS protests.]] In reply, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo has the floor for one minute.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u228	Mr President, record this moment, which can be historic, when we receive something from this socialist government. It wasn't time! Thank you very much. [[PS protests.]] Mr Brás, I realized why I didn't want you to answer or give me time, saying that I already knew the answer. If you knew the answer, you shouldn't have asked the question, because that is a bit redundant, but perhaps you haven't read to the right place. First, the Liberal Initiative has already proposed, in two budgets and in two electoral programmes, the reform of the IRS for two rates, not just one. [[PS protests.]] By now, you should ask for clarification on what is actually being proposed. Secondly, it continues to use the fallacy — which probably was to borrow from the Left Block — that a single rate corresponds to everyone paying the same tax.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u229	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u230	That's not true. Mr Matos has already had this explanation and he knows that, with the exemption, a single rate—or even two rates, which is our proposal—is a progressive tax, which works in many countries, with the growth of which we would like to compare ours.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u231	It's one of the glasses that you need.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u232	If the PS is so biased at single rates, I ask: why does it have a single rate for non-standard residents?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u233	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u234	Why does it have a single rate for people working in Portugal under this statute?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u235	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u236	I will finish, Mr. President. So there's any incongruence, but it's not ours. We argue that everyone has the same tax system, whether resident in Portugal long or recently, whether Portuguese or foreign, whether they have settled here, whatever the wage level they have, because, contrary to what the PS says, it is the fiscal progressiveity that has pushed thousands and thousands of qualified Portuguese abroad, where they can earn the same net wage and at much less cost to the company. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u237	Let us now turn to the intervention of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real of the PAN. You have the floor, Mrs. Member, for one minute.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u238	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : In fact, what Mr Finance Minister brings us, in addition to a plan that does not comply with the Budget Framework Act, as has already been mentioned, is a myopian programme, because it completely passes by the medium- and long-term vision that the country has to have, in particular with regard to climate change. This Stability Programme should be a unique opportunity for us to ensure a government commitment instrument to combat climate crisis by accelerating, in particular, the process of decarbonisation as a solution to the energy crisis, but also the promotion of food sovereignty and short production chains, precisely as a brake on uncontrolled inflation and future crises that the country may experience. In fact, what presents us are the old formulas of the custom. He once again spoke of the incentive for fossil fuels without looking at those that should be the answers of the future, in particular for the abandonment of the productive and extractive economic model that led us to this climate crisis. With regard to the deficit and GDP, there is a formula that must once and for all enter the lexicon of the government and which is linked to a green economy and sustainable growth for the country. It accords us with a value of inflation which is manifestly optimistic and places it as a savior of the homeland, which will descend debt and deficit, but does not say that it makes it, precisely what does not increase, which are wages, pensions or the revision of the steps of IRS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u239	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u240	I shall indeed conclude, Mr President. More: it does believe in the Community's money when we know that Portugal is a bad student in its implementation, and it also seems to us that 5 % of GDP growth will only be possible in government forecasts. In conclusion, what we lack and we would like to see, Mr Minister, is the courage to have Portugal at the forefront of the European climate and green transition, which needs to be done.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u241	For an intervention, Mr. Deputy of the Socialist Party Miguel Cabrita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u242	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Stability Programme under discussion is a document of the greatest strategic importance for the country. It is a document that does not exist by itself, before, it is linked with policy options and instruments of different kinds, such as PRR, the programming of the structural funds, the budgetary exercises this year and the next and the policy choices that are made. in this framework, the Stability Programme translates support to the public policy strategy for the temporal horizon until 2025 and, as already mentioned, is presented at a particular moment, in two planes, that it must emphasize. On the one hand, it is presented and discussed at a time when, due to the lead of the State budget and to the early elections, we are still preparing to discuss the 2022 budget in the coming days. On the other hand, because of this very conjuncural uncertainty factor, of the direct responsibility of different political parties, if it adds to the uncertainty inherent to the historical moment we live, following two shocks of strong impact on the Portuguese economy and society. When we were still completing the recovery of the crisis of the first half of the previous decade, we saw ourselves arming ourselves with the impacts of a pandemic and dealing with the direct impacts of the invasion of Ukraine, whose evolution will be decisive to the economic situation. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is in this scenario of inherent uncertainty that the Stability Programme should be read, but it clearly identifies the main strategic objective that guides it and that should guide public policies in the coming years. This design is triple: inclusive economic growth, more social cohesion and a sustainable trajectory of public accounts. They are neither, nor can they be, unconciliable or contradictory objectives, but on the contrary. For those who believe in an integrated and balanced view of the development of the country and are not available to sacrifice any of these objectives at the expense of others, inclusive growth, social cohesion and healthy finances are necessary and complementary sides of the same public policy strategy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is the brand of PS, of PS governments, and we are not available to open this identity. We need inclusive economic growth, because convergence with the EU has been interrupted by the pandemic. The growth forecast of 4, 9 %, assumed by the Government for 2022, points to the resumption of this convergence next year and, in conjunction with the economic and social policy that has been pursued, incorporates a relevant dimension of income, wages and non-wage increases, particularly in families with lower incomes and middle class, combating inequalities and poverty, so that no one will be left behind. Therefore, social cohesion is also a structural element of this vision for the country and the path that we have gone along, which is recommended here.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u243	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u244	There is no shortage of examples of measures over the past few years. There are no examples of measures in the Budget for 2022, and in a few days we will discuss them. But none of these objectives will be sustainable if the soundness of public finances is not ensured, essential to reduce costs of financing the economy, to reduce debt and to strengthen the country's credibility, which has been so hard earned, with different agents, internal and external. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We therefore advocate inclusive growth, strengthened social cohesion and healthy public finances. To pursue these objectives, simultaneously and in an integrated way, is no square of the circle. It is just the triangle that defines the strategic design that supports our vision for the country, to put social cohesion and people at the heart of our priorities, to generate growth at the service of people and businesses and to make growth and social cohesion sustainable over time. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u245	For an intervention, Mr Filipe Melo of the Czech Republic has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u246	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Finance Minister said that the unemployment rate had fallen, but I must say that this statement is false and the data that prove it are as follows: in January, there was an increase of 0, 2 percentage points compared to December. [[PS Members' laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u247	Don't laugh. This isn't about laughing! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u248	I recall that we are talking about 355 000 more unemployed, when the figures of the National Institute of Statistics show that they are 297 000. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Therefore, this means that there is a very large disparity between the values presented by IEFP (Instituto do Emprego e Formação Professional) and those presented by the National Institute of Statistics.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u249	Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u250	It is appropriate for the Minister to explain why these differences in organs are, or should be, controlled by you and which concern us very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u251	Ui! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u252	The Minister also said — and it is important to note — that with this growth Portugal would assume itself as one of the countries of the vanguard, leaving Europe's tail. Nothing would make us more satisfied, Minister. However, the Minister also made the statement, which I quote, that'Portugal leaves the most indebted group of countries in the European Union as from 2024' and I read this as a huge contradiction. What you said before this House and for all Portuguese, is that you expect immediate growth that will allow us to leave Europe's tail. It was like that before! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u253	We are now moving to the closing stage of the debate. to the 6 minutes that are determined for the Government's intervention, we will add the 2 minutes and 39 seconds that still have the part of the debate. I ask what is the member of the government who will intervene at this stage. [[Pause.]] I get the indication that it is Mr. Minister of Finance who will intervene. Mr Fernando Medina has the floor to close the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u254	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, this is a debate about the anticipation of the future and the strategies to build it, and therefore the words said here and the choices expressed here are important and significant. on the side of the Government and the Socialist Party, it was clear that there is a strategy for growth, convergence and reduction of public debt. It is a strategy based on these pillars, because it is the one that best serves the objectives of employment, the protection of income, social cohesion, development and also of our strategic autonomy. Therefore, I want to be very clear about how we understand the achievement of these objectives, which is based on a strategy of progressive development and investment in critical areas of our country's modernization, in the qualification of human resources, in innovation, in the transition to a greener, more digital economy, capable of being more innovative and generating greater added value. Everything goes away from a vision of the PSD and the parties to the right, who see in a fiscal magic the alpha and omega of all policies, in which for any problem, from global warming to economic growth, there is only one revenue, which is to lower taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u255	For you it is to increase!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u256	The growth strategy is therefore of the greatest importance and has been effective and effective in recent years. As much as the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen want to move the numbers and the data, the conclusion is one: in recent years, taking the small range of the pandemic, Portugal has been able to converge for the first time with the most advanced countries in the euro area. We converged with the average and we were able to move forward, from the point of view of convergence. They say, "Mrs." Members: "But there are other countries that are moving fast! There are other countries that are doing well. » There is, of course! There are, above all, countries that, being at a less advanced stage of development, achieve higher rates. Yes, but Portugal also did so a few decades ago. The growth rates of the most advanced countries are, of course, slower. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I ask you to record this: look closely at the growth rates of the Portuguese economy in recent years and see whether they are parallel to the other growth rates of previous periods, within the single currency. They don't! [[P.S.'s applause.]] They do not have, because these were years of convergence and, as far as the honourable Members are concerned. Members insist on Tresler, reality is what it is. And no future has any political project that intends to have its success based on the failure of the country. Don't! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The success we have today is the success of Portugal, of companies, of workers, of whom it has invested and is making the country move forward. That is why I also want to respond very clearly to those who, on the left, try to establish a supremacy of the objectives of financial policy, of debt reduction, over all others.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u257	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u258	No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, only a robust economy will ensure healthy public finances. But we are not wrong either, because we have a disagreement: we believe that we should not spend today, in the year in which we will have robust growth, what we may miss tomorrow, so the budgetary margin we are building today will be the margin that will allow us, with strategic autonomy, to be more free of the decisions on derogations or not derogations from European criteria in 2023. That's the choice we make. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] And we do so, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, with great rigour, because we do not extend the effort, we do not play for the shine, we do not expand a reduction of the expense without connection. No, ma'am! What was achieved in 2021 was, as the honourable Member well knows, an increase in public expenditure, but also an increase in revenue, the result of a stronger economic recovery, which allowed better results in the budgetary front.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u259	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u260	Now, what we did was simply keep that rate of effort for this year's budget. Why? Because we experienced significant economic growth. And why don't we follow the recommendation of the Left Block? Because it commands prudence — and prudence must be the highest criterion of the ruler — that we guard ourselves, in the times when we have growth, at other times when we may not have it with the same size. That is why, at a particular moment of uncertainty, one objective that we have is that, regardless of any decision being taken, national budgetary policy may reach December 2022 with more scope for action and to be defined in response to the Portuguese. [[BE's protests.]] Even so — and I conclude — not wanting to anticipate the debate of the State budget for 2022, it should be noted that we have been able to exercise greater effort and answer the fundamental questions that arise. First of all, let us speak with rigour: the wage mass in the public service, not counting on admissions — I repeat, the wage mass in the public service, not counting on admissions! — will grow 2, 5 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u261	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u262	What about inflation?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u263	Mrs Deputy, all civil servants, as well as those in the private sector, have access to the very wide range of measures we are taking, both in terms of income, or in terms of the increase in deduction from the second child,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u264	What about wages?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u265	... or in the freeness of day care, also in relation to the breakdown of steps or in the holding of fuel prices, and others. That is why I do not take the words that are said about us following a policy of harming income and wages. No, we're not. I repeat: no, we're not doing it! We do not fall into the simplistic policy to say « increase everything and then see». Some even say something curious: « It increases, because this has no impact on the costs of production of anyone. It increases because this has no impact on any inflation. » And I do not say that it was Mrs Deputy who said that, until you hear it... But we follow a policy that is intended to deal with this situation, prepare and strengthen the country better. I conclude by saying that this is the best way to conduct a debate on the Stability and Growth Programme, because this is precisely the case, in the face of the circumstances and their difficulties, but with a always very lucid vision of the way to go and looking at, at all times, to strengthen our resilience to face the times of greatest difficulty that the periods of uncertainty often bring us, that we are leading the action of this government and, in particular, economic and financial policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u266	That sounds like a right speech!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u267	It was in view of these objectives, prudently, aware of our responsibility to protect the Portuguese and the country at times of adversity, that this Stability Programme was drawn up and that the State Budget for 2022 was presented and will be discussed in this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u268	Mrs. Members, the Secretary of the Bureau Maria da Luz Rosinha has information to provide to the House. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u269	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is to realize that you have entered the Bureau, and it has been admitted, Bill No. 44 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Amends the Budget Framework Act to the provisions of the Climate Bases Act.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-20.u270	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I have some information on tomorrow's agenda. As you know, tomorrow we will have a particularly special parliamentary day, even singular. We shall begin at 5 p.m. with a solemn welcoming session to the President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelenskyy, following the normal parliamentary work, at most around 18 and 30 minutes. Perhaps it may even be before, for which I thank you. Members who are available to begin these work immediately after the conclusion of the solemn session. This debate, with the participation of the Government, is about Portugal's participation in Permanent Structured Cooperation. So tomorrow we will have two important moments: one at 17 hours and the next immediately, probably at 18 hours and 30 minutes, as it is on the agenda, but it will immediately follow the solemn session. Good afternoon to all and to all. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 17 minutes.]]
