ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u1	Good afternoon, Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, Mrs. Officers of authority. The meeting is open. [[It was 15 hours and 3 minutes.]] The agenda for today's meeting of the Standing Committee — although it has already been mentioned earlier, we hope that it will be the last — has two points, the first concerns the preparatory debate of the next European Council, under Article 4(1) (a ). the law of monitoring, evaluation and pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the process of building the European Union. For the opening intervention, Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa, has the floor, which I take advantage of to greet efusively.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This European Council will be quite diverse and intense, beginning with a very institutionally relevant moment, with the re-election of the President of the Charles Michel European Council for a second term, following the preparation, as a matter of work, of the next summit with China and the assessment of the crisis in Bosnia-Herzegovina. As is the case with the Spring European Councils, there will be a debate, a euro area summit focusing on banking union and capital markets, as well as on the prospects for economic and internal market issues. These issues do not mean that the Council has removed the topic of CVID-19 from the agenda, either in the future preparation and prevention aspect, or, above all, in the dimension of institutional solidarity in the sharing of vaccines and in support of increasing the capacity to produce vaccines in third countries. But, of course, despite this diversity of the agenda, the main point will be Ukraine's issues, its various aspects, whether economic, particularly in the energy sector, or in Europe of Defense. in the first dimension, of course, the European Council will reaffirm its absolute condemnation of the illegitimate war and in clear violation of the international law which Russia has initiated when invading Ukraine and will appreciate the possibility of strengthening the sanctions framework in force, as well as the measures to support Ukraine, whether humanitarian material or other material, which the Member States — including Portugal — have come to give to that country. There is a second dimension of the greatest importance that has to do with refugees and the need to actively affirm the solidarity of all countries of the European Union towards Ukrainians seeking international protection and with those States which, due to their geographical proximity, are now in line with the current crisis. As history has revealed to us, whoever has an external border will one day be on the front line of a wave of refugees — that is the case. To date, as you know, Portugal has significantly streamlined the procedure for the recognition of refugee status. Until yesterday there were 17,504 refugees in Portugal, 6200 of whom are minors and more than 600 are already enrolled and attending Portuguese public school. The third dimension has to do with the need to strengthen the defence Europe. The approval of the Strategic compass by the Council of Foreign Ministers, which took place yesterday, reaffirmed an instrument, with special opportunity, at a time when there is clearly and clearly the complementarity between NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ) and the European Union in the defence of Europe. Another dimension, and which is absolutely critical: this crisis has highlighted two things. On the one hand, the urgent need to accelerate the energy transition, so that Europe is dependent on itself and on the renewable energies it can produce on European territory. It is therefore time to accelerate the investment process in renewable energy. On the other hand, it was clear that Europe's energy security requires the diversification not only of its sources but also of its energy supply routes. This has already led the European Commission, in its two-week communication, to recognize the urgency of the establishment of interconnection in Portugal, Spain and France on gas — today, of course; tomorrow, green hydrogen or other renewable gas – and France itself today made an unequivocal statement on having withdrawn any objection to the development of this interconnection. Last dimension: regardless of what medium-term investments are in renewable energy and interconnections, there is a short-term decision that has to do with urgent intervention in energy prices. Firstly, there is a transversal measure — which we believe to be of the greatest urgency and importance — which has to do with the reduction of VAT (value added tax) on all energy products. Portugal has already formally asked the European Commission and we argue that the Commission must liberalise this authorisation in a cross-cutting way so that all States can implement it, as far as their capabilities are concerned. Secondly, intervention is needed in the mechanisms for the formation of the market price. There are several solutions that have been discussed. As you know, there is a proposal in which Portugal and Spain have worked — and Spain, contrary to what I saw in the press, has not gone away — with the support of the European Commission and other countries, notably Italy, Greece and others who have joined together. This intervention aims to fix a maximum ceiling for the reference price of gas so that we can avoid contamination of the price of electricity by the uncontrolled increase of the price of gas. More: it seeks not to set a market price that risks gas supply — something that would not affect us in particular, but would affect many of the European countries, for example Germany, which are highly dependent on gas. The setting of a reference price with the payment of a market price reference is a well-balanced solution which, we believe, can solve the problem and we have been working with the other Member States and the European Commission to that end. We must also not ignore the other economic consequences of this crisis and remember what we did well in the COVID-19 crisis and realize what we can do right again. It was essential to have a stabilisation mechanism, and the SURE(Support for the Mitigate Employment Risks in an Emergency) was a mechanism of greater importance, at a time of demand crisis, to finance, in our case, layoff, so that companies could stop their activity at a time when they had not sought, without losing jobs. currently, there is no problem in demand; there is a problem in the cost of supply. And the necessary stabilisation measure is a measure that enables us to intervene in the financing and state aid to companies, especially those that are energy-intensive, so that they do not stop their activity. Therefore, the derogation from the rules on competition in State aid, both in industry and in agriculture, is absolutely essential. Finally, it is necessary to think of joint purchasing mechanisms, as we have done with vaccines, in order to ensure both stability and access to essential products, or the reduction in price impact. I am not only talking about energy, I am also talking about several key components in the agri-food line, starting with fertilizers and other substances that are essential for the development of agriculture within the European Union. In summary, in the very diverse context of this Council, the issues under discussion will be the condemnation, the possible strengthening of sanctions and measures to support Ukraine ; the need to affirm the complementarity of European defence within the framework of NATO and the European Union ; the determination of medium-term energy measures to accelerate the transition to renewables and interconnections; and the determination of short-term measures to stabilize and, above all, reduce the price of electricity, taking into account the other economic consequences, either with the mechanism for stabilising direct aid to companies, or with measures necessary to ensure the supply and absence of market failures throughout the European Union. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the tolerance of time. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u3	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. For an intervention by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Constance Urbano de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister : After the most critical phase of the COVID-19, we all expected this year to be the recovery of our economy and, above all, the normality of our lives. The pandemic showed the vulnerability of Europe, resulting from its external dependence on the production of the most varied goods. It is clear today that only the strengthening of European integration in the field of health will enable us to have the ability to prevent, prepare and respond to future pandemics. But pandemics do not know borders and therefore my first question on the next European Council agenda concerns the government's position on a future global governance instrument on the World Health Organization's aspirations, also asking what role the European Union can play as a bloc. I believe that it may seem strange to my banking leader that I open my intervention on this subject, which is not, at the moment, our greatest concern — what we are concerned about is the illegal, unjustifiable and unforgivable aggression of Russia to Ukraine and its people, a war we witnessed with horror and perhaps the most dramatic, dangerous event and, in all respects, challenging that Europe and the world have been living since the Second World War, but I am going to explain. Both the pandemic and this war have caught us unawares and have demonstrated how we have been caught by the most varied dependencies throughout the globalization process. A process led by liberal faith in the sacrosanct...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u5	That's it! Sacrossant!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u6	... functioning in a market driven by profit gain. And we suddenly realize that our dependence — energy, trade, industry and even food — on those who produce in other latitudes makes us vulnerable and, above all, it undermines our ability to defend the values inherent in the so-called 'European model': democracy, respect for human rights, freedom and self-determination. Having no time to address each agenda item, I only put two more questions to Mr. Prime Minister. First of all, it is clear that greater European and national investment in military defence is essential to our protection, how is its financing being equalized and the way in which it is being combined with the investment also necessary to implement the European Pillar of Social Rights? Secondly, it is absolutely necessary to reduce — and now to eliminate — our energy dependence on Russia and other countries and, at the same time, to combat the rise in energy prices, which has a negative impact on the cost of living of citizens, what position will Portugal defend as regards measures to ensure bearable energy prices, especially without risking the other challenge of our lives, which is the fight against climate change? Finally, Mr Prime Minister, as you know, this is a very expensive issue to me, and I would like to ask you, not a question, but just to highlight the humanistic and solidarity that the European Union is responding to the crisis of refugees from the war in Ukraine. In a few days, he welcomed more than three million people with no protection. And this time Europe seems to be acting up to its obligations and values, especially is not reacting with panic, as happened in 2015 and 2016 when over a year, some one million Syrian refugees entered the European Union. Human beings who also fled to the horror of a war, in a country that is not far from here either. at the time, this number seemed absolutely overwhelming, although it was sensitively the same as a small country like Lebanon, with an incomparable lower capacity of reception, welcomed and protected. And contrary to what has happened now, the European Union has not activated the temporary protection instrument that has existed since 2001 to deal with these situations. Only now did he for the first time, guaranteeing in a simple and quick way protection to those who need it. In 2015, it has not, as it is now, mobilized extensive financial resources to support the reception of refugees by Member States. It preferred to allocate the largest share of the funding available for outsourcing of its protection obligations by paying others — in particular Turkey — to protect people. Despite this duality of criteria, I can only now welcome the humanist way in which the European Union and its Member States are fulfilling their obligation, which is not only legal, is also a moral obligation and, above all, civilizational, to welcome and protect human beings. And protecting and welcoming human beings, I hope, without any discrimination based on race, gender or religion. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u7	I'll inform the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, from now on, they must register for quorum, because there is a vote at the end of the proceedings. For an intervention, Mr Rui Rio of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u8	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, in this case the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mr and Mr. Members: The war Russia has unleashed is not just a belligerent action against Ukraine. It is a war against the values of freedom, democracy, self-determination of peoples and free cooperation among nations. It is therefore a war against us; against Europe, against NATO, against the entire civilized world. It is a war that brutally hardens the values of peace and harmony, values that were consolidated with the teachings of history after the world wars of the twentieth century and, in particular, after the heinous crimes of the Nazi dictatorship. These are the values that are in the genesis of the creation of the united Europe and the project that is now being played by the European Union. Therefore, this imperialist-positioned war, being totally inadequate to the times we live in, has already produced effects strictly contrary to those desired by the Russian dictator. It has produced greater unity within the European Union, greater popular support for NATO and a major global antipathy towards Russia. It also strengthened the awareness of the nation between the Ukrainians and the start of Ukraine's road towards the European Union. He reinforced everything Putin wanted to weaken. But this invasion has also produced thousands of Ukrainians and Russians who have died and inhumane suffering for millions of people. Europe must therefore give the most effective and smarter answer it can have. Economic sanctions, military and social support for Ukraine, confiscation of Russian oligarchs, support for refugees, as well as the isolation of Russia at all levels — and not only in the most media — must be a stronger and more obvious reality. These economic sanctions to Russia naturally have a boomerang effect. to those who today demand the most heavy sanctions, but who will not be able to disagree tomorrow, challenging their effects, we must explain that this is the indispensable price that we have to pay for our future security, for the defense of freedom and for the solidarity with those who are suffering so much. That is why everyone is called for a sense of responsibility. to the Government, which must be able to take the correct measures to mitigate the negative consequences of the war. to those who oppose him, because we must be aware that we must criticize what is not right, but always without falling into the temptation of populist exploitation of the situation we are living. Russia's defeat is largely the result of the strength and unity of public opinion, in particular, of European public opinion. We therefore have a democratic duty to do everything in our power to preserve this unity. It is precisely with this concern that the Government should give up the extraordinary tax gains that the rise in the price of oil is bringing it. the government has not yet lowered in this exact proportion the taxes on fuels — which, since 2016, because of its responsibility, have suffered a huge increase — the government is generating a popular discontent that at no point contributes to the commitment of the Portuguese to support the economic sanctions to the aggressors. The current State budget was drawn up at the end of 2020, with the raw price at about half of the present quote. It is therefore to establish justice that the tax burden falls to the initially expected level of revenue. More than that, it is not fair or appropriate to the political and economic objectives that Portugal and Europe must now pursue. Mr President, the PSD is obviously in agreement with the European Council in matters such as the construction of a genuine common defence policy and the consequent strengthening of its budgetary allocations, the elimination of energy dependence on Russia or the need for European food self-sufficiency. This is because we are, as we have always been, on the side of the European project, which is, as I said, a project that was born for the preservation of peace, freedom and harmony. A project that is more than ever seen in the famous phrase of the most absolute antithesis of Vladimir Putin, the Indian leader Mahatma Gandhi :"I know many reasons why I would die, but I don't know why I would kill. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u9	For an intervention, you now have the floor by the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u10	Mr President, Prime Minister : There is a broad European and national consensus on condemning the Russian invasion of Ukraine, and still well. There are measures that have been taken, including economic sanctions, which are important, but there is a war that remains on the ground. It is the biggest humanitarian crisis in Europe since World War II, according to the UN ( United Nations ), and the worst that could happen would be a normalization of war or dehumanization of its victims. We believe that the European Union can do more, and I would like to offer you three suggestions for this European Council. Firstly, we have seen the bilateral negotiations between Russia and Ukraine serve indeed for lists of Russian claims while Ukraine is being destroyed on the ground. It is not in these bilateral negotiations that there will be ways of peace. A peace conference under the aegis of the United Nations is urgently needed, and the European Union, its Member States, can propose this fundamental step to open up serious paths for peace. We believe this is a proposal that the Portuguese Government can bring to this European Council. We cannot abandon Ukraine in these bilateral negotiations that only serve Russia. Secondly, the country is being destroyed. In addition, Russia has destroyed Ukraine's infrastructure and has done this work in a very determined way. Russia wants a subjugated country. Ukraine was already one of the poorest countries in Europe, with a large public debt, and the European Union can forgive Ukraine's public debt. This is a second proposal which we believe the Portuguese Government can also submit. Thirdly, in the face of the greatest refugee crisis since World War II, action is needed. This is a refugee crisis that joins others with whom Europe is already facing. It is necessary to combat trafficking in human beings and to treat all those who flee all wars, according to human rights and the dignity that we demand for everyone. It is therefore important to establish safe corridors for all the refugee vacancies currently at the doors of the European Union and the European Union. I would also like to talk about the other issue of this European Council, since I will not have time to talk about all the issues you have raised, which is the energy crisis. The energy crisis is not mainly caused by war or economic sanctions. After confinement due to the pandemic increased demand, and we see well the stratospheric profits that oil companies have made, for example, with the distribution of billions in dividends to shareholders. In Portugal, Galp itself has increased its result by 40 times and promises more than 500 million euros to shareholders. So, finally, we are faced with an increase in prices that neither war justifies nor which, quite frankly, does not have to do with the climate response either. This will require public investment, require social justice. We are in rising prices, which is, above all, a huge injustice for those who have less. Dig inequalities and it's a danger to the economy. from our point of view, the Portuguese Government has been very conservative in its response to the European level, both from a fiscal and price control point of view. We do not believe that it is possible to control this price rise without acting at the same time not only from a fiscal point of view but also from price formation, because if it acts from a fiscal point of view and does not act from a price formation point of view, we will only be rewarding speculation. I am glad that the Prime Minister here announces that there is this understanding of the ceiling for gas prices. however, we also believe it is important that water is no longer paid as if it were gas. It is that if you pay them the same as the gas, they are still paid to the carbon market. Well, dams don't emit carbon. It is difficult to understand the position of the Portuguese Government, which continues to pay for water and has thus protected EDP (Energy of Portugal ) from both European and national point of view. Secondly, I would like to draw attention to the solution of Italy, in which the surpluses are being taxed with an overtax which then allows families to help in the face of rising prices, i.e. transform the surpluses of those who produce energy into tariff reduction for those who need it. There are also fiscal measures. He told us that he is awaiting the authorisation of the European decision. I recall, for example, that Poland did not wait for a European decision to lower VAT. Portugal must lower the VAT! Energy is a first-needed asset and must therefore have VAT at the minimum rate. We also believe that this is the time to end the so-called "additional ISP", which was created by the government in 2016 at a time when oil was low. at this moment, it's the opposite and therefore it has to end. Finally, it is also necessary to end the dual taxation system of the ISP, since VAT affects the price already with the ISP. So there's a double taxation that doesn't make sense either. These are measures that can and should be debated from a European point of view, but as you said, Portugal cannot wait for them to be applied either, because controlling fuel prices is at the moment fundamental to social justice and the protection of the Portuguese economy. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u11	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister : The position of the CFP has always been clear — we are for peace. And since 2014 we say that in Ukraine we need to stop the war, which should never have started, and give us a chance for peace. This requires: putting an end to the escalation of the conflict; establishing ceasefire; ensuring humanitarian support for populations and refugees; promoting dialogue with a view to a negotiated solution to the conflict; working for a security architecture in Europe, based on mutual security assurances, peace, cooperation among peoples and respect for international law, the Charter of the United Nations, the Final Act of the Helsinki Conference. This is the way in which the government should commit itself, as well as the European Union, not to the continuation of the policy of confrontation, with more threats and sanctions. It does not end the war by insisting on the path it led to. War, militarism, confrontation is not the way to peace. The Strategic compass, a designation given to the draft military leap long ago and that the European Council is preparing to approve, insert and emphasize the confrontation approach promoted by the United States of America and NATO, which is inseparable from the ongoing war in Ukraine, defends the increase in military spending when they say there is no money for health, education and public services to respond to serious social problems. It is even mentioned in VAT exemptions in the purchase of arms and other military equipment and equipment, when maximum VAT rates are applied in first-needed goods such as electricity and gas. The brutal increase in energy costs has consequences in the deterioration of the living conditions of workers and the people, in micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, in the country's economy. Increases in the price of energy will tend to increase as a result of the war in Ukraine, not only because of uncertainty about natural gas and misuse, but especially because of the effect of sanctions, making it clear that war and sanctions penalize the same as ever, workers and peoples, while economic groups continue to threaten fabulous profits. The PCP proposed the end of double taxation and the additional at ISP rates, the low rate of VAT on electricity, gas and fuel, as well as the regulation of wholesalers' margins with the establishment of a maximum price table. If these measures had not been refused by PS, PSD, CDS, Arrival and IL, it would have avoided disproportionate and unfair increase in energy turnover for families and businesses. We want to ask you two questions, Mr Prime Minister, and the first is the reliability of the fuel price training method. Nine years ago the European Commission opened an investigation, given the suspicion of collusion in fixing the indices that serve as a reference to fuel prices throughout Europe, but so far the results are not known. The Assembly of the Republic proposed that the Government should check with the European Union the conformity of the mechanisms leading to the Platts indexes with the rules of competition. What have you done and what will the government do to clarify this issue with the European Commission? Now that the European Union recognises, in the case of electricity, the need to move into the sacrosanct market rules and impose some kind of regulation, why not also fight opacity in the formation of fuel prices? Do you intend to take this matter to the European Council? The second question is: does the government intend to question profits, incomes and margins, ensuring that electricity prices are reduced? Is it really willing to take the necessary measures to ensure that prices for consumers reflect the costs of production rather than the colossal profits allowed to oligopolies?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u13	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u14	In France, even liberal Macron already talks about nationalizing strategic energy companies. It is obvious that liberalisation and privatization are only of interest to economic groups; families and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs have only brought about an increase in turnover, which is why it is necessary to initiate a public control process in this strategic sector. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u15	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u16	Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Mr. Members: At the end of a few months, we have the opportunity to exchange impressions with the Prime Minister on this matter in a period of time, I would not say'serious', but that in any way it has extended to the new government, at a time when the country is faced with three successive problems: first, and still, the problem of the pandemic ; second, the problem of drought, which apparently these last few days of rain have not completely resolved ; and finally, the problem of the consequences of this unqualifiable aggression of Russia against Ukraine. These problems actually raise the three main themes of the European Council: the question of refugees, the question of the energy crisis and the question of defence policy, in particular, of investment in defence policy. With regard to refugee support, Mr. Prime Minister, of course, the CDS, as a responsible party, is fully in agreement. All that we do will be done well and therefore convey our total solidarity with all that the country can do to welcome those who, in such dramatic situations, flee the conflict and the war zones. With regard to the energy issue, it has already been raised and I agree. Mr Prime Minister tells us, and he has said, that the issue is European and that we need to discuss it in the European context, including the possibility of reducing VAT. The question is whether, as long as this European possibility is not raised, we should not start by reducing what is possible, particularly in the ISP, and then by having this European viability, we can have a better solution. On the other hand, I was telling us the other day, Mr Foreign Minister, that we are not very dependent on gas. Anyway! In any case, the market is global, Mr Prime Minister, and the second direct question I would like to ask you, on the fuels, is the following: Mr Prime Minister said that the European Union, like what you did with the pandemic, will seek to make joint purchases to solve these problems. We know that you are already making progress in terms of gas, so I ask you: would it not be in Portugal's interest to do the same in the matter of oil, for example? Gas is very important for some countries in central and northern Europe, but for us, in fuels, oil is absolutely essential. Would it not be desirable and possible, too in this matter, to move forward to such a solution? On the other hand, Prime Minister, some of your counterparts have spoken in national response plans. I have recently seen Mr Macron's plan and also the plan of the Spanish Government, Mr Sánchez. Finally, you and the next government will say, of course! — if you do not think that we will also have to have a plan, which may even, by some amendment, be structurally, in terms of European funds, either to redirect some aspects of the PRR itself ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ) with measures to support companies either by means of support measures which have been lost or by re-use of the layoff. In fact, if raw materials are missing, if fundamentals are lacking, we will have to work to make companies survive. Finally, Mr Prime Minister, on the issue of defence, I would like to ask you whether in your opinion this European effort and investment should not always be made within the framework of NATO. Is this not always the most advantageous picture for Portugal in the rebalancing of a European pillar in an Atlantic context? As Portugal is a country which is essentially Atlantic, it seems to us that this is the way and the compass, so to speak, more certain and appropriate. Mr Prime Minister, in this context, these are the issues I leave you with. I conclude by saying that, with all nature and with all probability, this will be the last intervention of the CDS-PP bench in the next four years and a few months.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u17	Let's see!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u18	Probably and in principle it will be so, if the majority works. I wanted to tell you, therefore, that we have maintained the behaviour that we have always had, of responsible party, and that we assume our responsibilities until the last minute—to the last second! I take advantage of it to say that I hope that the Government of Exa has a firm, good and loyal opposition, and I also hope that you will make a good government and have a good mandate, because that is obviously in the interest of Portugal. in this sense, I wish you the greatest happiness. [[Greetings from PS Constance Urbano de Sousa.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u19	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present: I would like to begin by referring to the words of today's Ukrainian President, Volodymyr Zelensky, about the hearing that took place in the Italian Parliament, in which he stated that Ukraine is at the threshold of survival, adding that Russia sees that country, Ukraine, as the gateway to Europe. With the data to tell us that more than 10 million people have been forced to leave their homes, this is in fact one of the greatest humanitarian crises of refugees of recent times in Europe, more precisely since World War II, and therefore we cannot remain indifferent or fail to use all the mechanisms within our reach, including diplomats, to stop this scourge. The NAP proposed that the President of the Assembly of the Republic invite the Ukrainian President to be heard in the Assembly of the Republic, but that was not followed. in this sense, Prime Minister, I would like to know whether it is available to launch the interinstitutional relations that allow, in the next legislature — if not too late! — President Zelensky can be heard here, of course online, in order to once again express all our solidarity and our support for the Ukrainian people, as well as our repudiation of Russia for the war crimes it is currently committing. With regard to the preparatory meeting of the European Council and the energy crisis for the NAP, it was essential to realize what the government is actually going to defend with the Council on combating the climate crisis. This is because some of the most conservative voices in this Parliament have already argued that it was time to leave behind the fight against the climate crisis, knowing that, as far as natural gas production is concerned, Portugal and Europe are dependent on Russia — which provides 40% of the natural gas from all over Europe, alongside oil production, which amounts to 25%. This energy dependence has always been pointed out as an obstacle to transition. Mr Prime Minister, at the moment there are more than EUR 200 billion of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism which are intended for loans and which have not been used, so we ask: is it available to defend with Europe that this money is used and channelled for investments in combating the energy crisis, in particular in supporting families, as an alternative, for example, to the extension of the beneficiaries of the social energy tariff? We are well aware of the government's position on the reduction of VAT in electricity, and the question of VAT in gas is now also raised. On the other hand, Mr Prime Minister, I take advantage of your presence to say that, in addition to this issue of electricity, with the excessive dependence and lack of autonomy of Portugal and Europe in view of this production, the humanitarian crisis also brought the issue of pets of refugees from Ukraine. The DGAV ( Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary) has not yet been clear about the mechanisms for entry into Portugal of these animals, so I ask the Government again: will they, or will they not, allow unvaccinated animals to enter our territory? To close the doors to these animals is to close the doors to these people, and I remember that we are facing an unprecedented humanitarian crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u21	You have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Mariana Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The European Council will discuss, among other things, the draft European Commission on Green Labelling of Nuclear Energy and Natural Gas in a clear greenwashing operation. The Greens reaffirm: not nuclear. If meeting targets is at risk, effective measures are urgently needed through sustainable solutions, not retrocesses. Nuclear is not, and will never be, green. As regards natural gas, it also has a fossil fuel which emits large amounts of greenhouse gases, including methane, both on the holding and transport, so far has demanded the silence of the Government. Therefore, we would like to know what your position is in relation to the pilgrimage idea of assigning you a green label. The debate will also be on the persistence of high energy prices. For the Greens, it is immoral speculation that has reigned and that brings the price of many other goods, with serious impacts on citizens and micro and small businesses, which are very fragile. in a difficult and highly unstable phase, it is necessary to reject any use of the situation. Without regulating prices, large companies in the sector will continue to suck any relief that may exist. In addition to regulation, there is a need to extend the supply of collective transport, with significant effects on the reduction of fossil fuel consumption, as well as in social and economic terms. The Greens reinforce that the energy transition must be fair and sustainable and that the energy sector is at the service of the people. That is why debate is not enough. We need to know how the European Union and Portugal will react to the immorality of rising energy prices and how far the Portuguese Government is willing to go to face this immorality. Finally, security and defence matters will also be dealt with, including permanent structural cooperation, and I remember that the Greens have always opposed Portugal's participation in this body. As we have said, the answer cannot be military, but, yes, peaceful and diplomatic. Yes, Prime Minister, the defense of peace! As pacifists we are, we ask you whether you are committed to defending peace, instead of promoting rearmament and belligerent lines, which, unfortunately, is the only way that the leaders of the European Union have taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u24	You have the floor, Mr Ventura, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u25	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members: I would like to start by noting that it is overwhelming to see that in this Parliament there is still anyone who thinks that the fault is NATO, who thinks that Europe is responsible and that the best thing is to abandon our weapons, abandon our armies and defend Portugal and Europe in a way that we do not know how it would be. Probably with paper and flowers in hand, while the others would throw bombs at us. But we are going to the question that concerns the Portuguese, as you are seeing this debate, which is the issue of taxes that Mr. Prime Minister refuses to drop in Portugal. It is not enough to accuse the European Union of not lowering taxes. Poland has lowered fuel VAT to 8 %, I repeat, 8 %! It's good to hear at home, we with 23%, they with 8%! This is the Socialist Government: 23 % on fuel. Mr Prime Minister said: « We cannot lower VAT without the authorisation of the European Union ». It's true, but it can lower the ISP, the additional to the ISP and the carbon rate. That's in your hand, no one else's in your hand! It is in the hands of those who voted in themselves and who really want to get to the gas pump and do not have to leave life, wallet and salary there, every month, every day, every week, when they come to work. Therefore, Mr Prime Minister, in a country which, in December last year, fell to 76% of the average purchasing power of the European Union, let me tell you, on behalf of the vast majority of Portuguese: either lower taxes on consumption or, soon, the purchasing power in Portugal will be at the level of Albania or any other very similar country, and that is due solely to a government that has been ruling for six years. It is up to you that you have the power to make this amendment. I'm done talking about refugees. Yes, we must welcome those who flee the war, an unjust, illegal war, and a war of aggression. And, no, these refugees are not equal to others, who come from Morocco, where there is no war,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u26	Oh, no? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u27	... that come from places where bombs are not falling and where they are not being invaded. Don't! These are not refugees like those who come here from Afghanistan, put our women in the hole, get social security subsidies, ask for nationality to go to England or Germany. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] Don't! Ukrainians are not like those who come to Europe to promote terrorism, the division and the humiliation of our women. No, they're not the same, and we have a duty to say they're not the same. Don't! These are not like those who come to Europe to get subsidies, then go to England or Germany. Therefore, Mr. Prime Minister, being next to the Ukrainians is not the same as saying: «Come, come and enter that we are here paying». This in a country where there are pensioners to receive 200 € and retired police to receive 700 € or 800 €. Don't! This is not the country we want. We want a country for those who have worked here for decades and who have been working hard so that today we can pay those refugees who come here. That's what we want and that's what we ask: a country worthy of those who have always lived here, always worked here and always made this country the country you love and the nation you want.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u28	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u29	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: The agenda of the European Council on Thursday and Friday is very diverse, but of course the big issue will be Ukraine, especially in the various dimensions that the conflict has already affected. in the dimension of humanitarian aid whose initial response was very favourable and which we can all please, we now enter the complicated phase, because it is not enough to accept, we must integrate. I would therefore like to know what the Portuguese Government is doing to centralize the information on the 17 600 refugees who have officially come from Ukraine, but who are estimated to be at least twice. What will be done to integrate them properly? This is an important issue for the next few weeks. As for the military conflict, it cannot end with a cause, political gain, for the dictator Putin and then the question of geopolitical realignment, longer-term, is very important to give continuity to this new one to agree on a feeling of love for freedom and for human rights in Europe. in the Portuguese Parliament, what is interesting to discuss is what directly affects Portuguese and this is obviously the issue of fuels. Mr Prime Minister, in view of the massive rise in energy costs, in particular fuel costs, which have already increased by more than 50 % since he took possession and which in recent months only increased by 20 %, leading Portugal to have the highest rates of effort — measured in number of hours or days needed to work to supply a car — it is not possible for the Portuguese Government to limit itself to asking for authorisation to lower VAT « one of these days ». In 2016, in the face of an inverse movement of rapid descent of oil branches, with the corresponding allocation of tax revenue, what did the government do? Oh, my God! He immediately moved to the ISP, creating an additional and conditions for the recipe to remain, and I will not even talk about the fact that I have not responded—as I said I would! — if the cost of oil increases again. I am saying that, at the moment, because of a question of respect for the hundreds of millions of euros that the Portuguese will have to spend more this year on fuels, especially those who need the car to work and for their business, it was imperative that the mechanism be the same. As for what is in the hands of the government to change by door, i.e. the ISP, the additional, the carbon rate, all these matters, it was imperative that it do so already! Mr. Prime Minister, when do you lower taxes on fuel? The Portuguese have the right to have this answer, affirmatively and quickly.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u30	For the closing of this debate, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Starting with the issue of pandemic management by Mrs Constance Urbano de Sousa, point 24 of the Council conclusions deserves our full agreement and the defence of an international treaty for the prevention, preparation and response of pandemics. The second issue, which is also quite transversal, has to do with refugees and I would not share the honourable Member's optimism that there is today a new consensus on solidarity with regard to the reception of refugees. Although not everyone said what Mr. André Ventura said, with the greatest of the outbreaks, there are others who think so without saying it and with the same bearing. But, in fact, from the point of view of Portugal, what justifies international protection is the dignity of the human person, which is indifferent to origin, whether Ukrainian, Moroccan, Syrian or Libyan, wherever it is. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What have we done to integrate? First of all, we are, of course, a privileged destination, because in Portugal we have an important Ukrainian community, which has been rooted for more than two decades, and, as we all know, one of the first criteria of choice for anyone seeking help is precisely to look where he has family, friends or acquaintances. So, from the first hour, we realized that we were going to be a host destination and, therefore, we changed the procedure so that it would be agile to the allocation of international refugee status and we created a platform for the integration of job supply, which already has more than 23,500 job offers for different professional profiles. at this time, we have to work in our embassies in Warsaw and Romania advanced teams of the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training, to help identify people who want to work, and, as I said recently, more than 600 children are already enrolled in Portuguese schools. However, we must all understand the following: people who are arriving in Portugal are still highly traumatized, have gone through terrible violence and, of course, do not know whether they will live in Portugal in the coming years or whether they will be able to return to their homeland in the coming months. The natural desire of all is that there will soon be peace on their land and that they will be able to return to their families. Therefore, it is not worth having an excess of expectations as to what will be the integration of people into society, and these people are here not by choice but because they are fleeing from a war that Russia has unleashed against Ukraine. The first gesture of solidarity and respect we have to have is to understand the human fragility of these people, giving them calmness and time. I must say that my surprise is that there are already 600 children in school! If each of us had to flee somewhere else today, perhaps, we would need time to think about what our life would be like before we made definitive decisions about the future. But the Ukrainian community has already demonstrated, over the past two decades, at least an excellent and remarkable ability to integrate into Portuguese society, as well as Portuguese society to integrate and host. With regard to the question of peace, it is clear that bilateral talks have their limitations and that all formats — United Nations, Normandy, European Union — which can be exploited to obtain ceasefire, dialogue and the restoration of peace and international law rules must be explored, and none of them comes to any further. However, Mrs Paula Santos and Mrs Mariana Silva excuse me for being frank, but let us not be naive: we are not in a conflict between two parties, we are not between two aggressors. We are facing a country that was at peace and that, in violation of international law, has been assaulted, invaded and is being the victim of a criminal war. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yes, we want to defend peace, but it does not only defend itself with manifestations to say: “No to war! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Peace also defends itself with deterrence and that is why we must comply with it — and do so! — with our duty to contribute to the dissuasive action of the defensive alliance in which we are integrated, NATO, ensuring that, in addition to aggression to Ukraine, there will be no aggression to any NATO country and that, with this deterrent force in front of NATO, we also indirectly strengthen the security of Ukraine itself. We will not participate in the war, but we will participate in the defense against the war. There, excuse-CL-me, we cannot say that we are faithful to a balance where there are two equal weights.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u32	Who said that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u33	No, there are not two equal weights: there is a country that was at peace, that wanted peace, and there is another country that triggered the war and is executing it. [[PS, PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] I leave a final note on the issue of fuels: the fixing of a maximum ceiling in the reference price for gas is absolutely fundamental, because, as the price formation mechanism is a marginalist mechanism, that is, it is always paid by the highest price of the source that was injected into the network, we have a problem in electricity because we have a problem in the gas. So when we set the maximum reference price on gas, we avoid contamination of price rise in other energy sources, and this is absolutely vital. Then there is a fiscal dimension, yes, to which we can resort and, contrary to what we do. Members say, the government has not been stopped. The Government has long frozen the increase in the carbon rate and other tax measures and introduced what it can do, i.e. the return in ISP of the increase in the revenue that the State is obtaining through VAT with the increase in the price. However, like the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not enough for us to authorize the European Commission to lower the VAT rate...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u34	Is Parliament needed? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u35	We need an Assembly of the Republic which is in full operation, since tax matters fall within the exclusive competence of the Assembly of the Republic and, like the Members. Members know better than anyone, we have not yet an Assembly of the Republic installed and in full operation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u36	What about the ISP?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u37	ISP doesn't have to!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u38	So if everything goes well, next week the Assembly of the Republic will be installed and we will all have other instruments that we do not have at this time to be able to intervene in tax matters. however, there is something on which we should not have any illusion: the tax intervention that effectively produces effect, Mr Rui Rio, is even in VAT, because this is the ad valorem tax, the tax in which the revenue varies depending on the increase in price.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u39	Is that an ISP?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u40	The ISP is a fixed value and is therefore absolutely indifferent to the revenue of the ISP if the price rises or falls. I would even say more: if the price rises so much that people consume less, the ISP revenue, rather than increase, decreases. Therefore, the ISP is not the problem,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u41	Then put it down!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u42	... nor is it the key to the solution. The key to the solution is moving at the VAT rate. As we have said, we have moved to the ISP because, at the moment, it is the tool that the Government can use without Parliament being in operation and without having to request authorisation from the European Commission to move the VAT rate.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u43	But don't move! They froze, which is different!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u44	For the week we will have — wait! — new Parliament, however, we should have the answer from the European Commission and, as the Government has already said, it is our understanding that while the abnormal market situation is occurring, a reduction in the VAT rate on fuels is justified. I repeat that this is temporary, because there must be no doubt that there is no room for us to reverse our energy policy. Our problem is even to accelerate investment in renewable energy, because they are the ones that free us from external dependence and price volatility on the international gas market, fossil fuels, all the external dependence we have. This is the bet that we should make and, therefore, we will not structurally change a policy, we will change it jointly to solve and answer a problem that is essentially conjunctural. As far as the matter is concerned, the ladies and gentlemen. Members know that we have gone to the limit of what, with the legal capacity that the Government has, we can do: in the expansion of the electricity tariff to the gas shop; in the return in ISP of the increase in VAT revenue; in the non-increase of the ISP, this week, even though the price of fuels has fallen. That's where we're going to stay. next week, we'll all have--I hope! — other tools for intervention. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u45	Thank you very much, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u46	Mr. President, if I may...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u47	But? He's still only out of time in 3 minutes...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u48	Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u49	You've got 10 more minutes if you want! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u50	Mr President, since this is probably the last parliamentary session in the current legislative framework, I would like to give a special word to all Members and all Members. Members of all seats, with two special references: of course, to the Members of the Greens Ecological Party and Telmo Correia, which here represents the CDS-PP. They are two parties that will not be represented in the next legislature and to whom I want to give a special greeting, and obviously cannot cease to underline the CDS-PP as one of the founding parties of our democracy and which, over these nearly 50 years since 25 April, in different positions of ours, except in a short period, has always contributed to the formation of the democratic state that we are today. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u51	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have thus reached the end of the first item on the agenda, which consisted of the preparatory debate of the European Council, and I thank the Prime Minister and the members of the Government present. We move on to the second point of vote, to which we have a very reasonable quorum, with 37 presences being recorded, in a universe of 45 Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. I would ask the Secretary of the Bureau, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha, to announce the opinion to be voted on. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, at the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Castelo Branco — Central Court Cible de Castelo Branco — Juiz 2, Case No 1408 / 18.0T8CTB, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Hugo Carneiro ( PSD ) to present a statement as a witness within the framework of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-22.u53	The opinion is appreciated. [[Pause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if there are no requests for a word, let us vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I believe that this is once again, so I am also saying goodbye, wishing the greatest personal, family and political happiness to all Members and to all Members. Members, regardless of whether or not they are in the legislature that starts for the week. Thank you all very much. [[P.S. and PS.D. applause.]] This meeting of the Standing Committee is closed. [[It was 16 hours and 7 minutes.]]
