ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, since all parliamentary committees are represented and we have quorum, we will start the session. [[It was 15 hours and 9 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the galleries to the public. Mrs. Members, the first item on the agenda is the joint debate, in general, of Bill Nos 40 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Tenth amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October approving the Law of Nationality, repealing Article 14. the law, 28 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Determines the cessation of the regime of granting Portuguese nationality by mere effect of the descent of Sephardite Jews expelled from Portugal in 1496 ( tenth amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October, which approves the Nationality Law), 122 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Alter the Nationality Act and the Rules of Procedure for Registers and Notary ( tenth amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October and thirty-seventh amendment to Decree-Law No 322 -A / 2001 of 14 December ), 126 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October, in its current wording, which approves the Law of Nationality — repeal of the rule that makes it dependent on the effects of nationality of the affiliation established during the minority, 127 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October, in its current wording, which approves the Law of Nationality – updating the requirements of the granting of nationality, by naturalization, to the descendants of Portuguese Sephardic Jews, 132 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Tenth amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October approving the Law of Nationality, 133 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Defines the circumstances in which the affiliation established after the minority may have effects on nationality by making the tenth amendment to the Nationality Law, approved by Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October, and 134 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Revoke Article 14. the Law No. 37 / 81 of 3 October, which approves the Law of Nationality. Before we begin the debate, however, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha has the floor to give us an account of the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, announce that they have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted by Mr President, Bills Nos 163 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 176 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 177 / XV / 1. a ( CH) and 181 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 9. the Commission and draft resolution No 131 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 7. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then begin the debate. To submit Bill No. 40 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), Mr Paulo Mota Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD presented and scheduled Bill No. 40 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), amending Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October — the Law of Nationality —, in order to eliminate a distinction which must today be considered unjustified in the criteria to attribute nationality to children of Portuguese, which has a great deal of meaning to numerous Luso-descendants and to Portuguese communities abroad. This is the provision of Article 14. that of the Law of Nationality, which determines that the affiliation established during the minority has effects on nationality. in a legal framework in which jus sanguinis is a criterion for the attribution of nationality, such as that of Portuguese law, the fact that affiliation with a Portuguese is unequivocally established should not continue to be irrelevant, even if that establishment occurs only during the majority and not while it was younger. We understand, in fact, that it is insufficient the explanation put forward by some authors, in the sense that the affiliation established after the majority does not already work as a presumed revealing element of sociological and psychological integration of the child in the national community of the parent. And this is not only because there are no elements in the law that limit the relevance of jus sanguine to acquire nationality, demanding the proof of this sociological and psychological integration of the child in the Portuguese national community — this is not required — because the criterion of establishing affiliation during the minority is inadequate to reveal this integration. On the one hand, there may be people with Portuguese affiliation, established in minority, without such integration and, on the other hand, the fact that filiation is only established in majority cannot be considered as an appropriate index of such integration. Such a lack of integration may exist, and often exists, even if only when you are older do you establish filiation, such as for reasons of judicial litigation on the point. Moreover, in Portuguese law too, the short deadlines, which existed before, have already been eliminated to establish membership after the minority. The PSD believes that if there are rights that should not be forgotten, it is the rights of the descendants, children and grandchildren of those whose country, so many times, due to lack of conditions and development, has not been able to keep between us, in its native land, and has forced us to emigrate. And it is worth stressing that the appreciation of the millions of citizens who exist in the world of Portuguese origin is fundamental to our country. However, the requirement for the establishment of the subsidiary during the minority as set out in Article 14. the, whose revocation is proposed, creates situations of injustice for people who, for many reasons, see only the sonship of Portuguese already in their adult age. Even situations of unequal treatment between brothers may occur if, at the time of the establishment of the affiliation, for both, one is greater and the other is less, although both are children of the same Portuguese national parent; in this case, only the minor is Portuguese national, or acquires nationality, while the other, since he is already greater at the date of the establishment of the affiliation, cannot have access to our nationality. The PSD argues that it is surely necessary to be cautious to avoid possible frauds to the law, for example through false profilings aimed at acquiring nationality, but that does not happen to maintain the current article 14. the, nor by limiting the establishment of the relevant affiliation or resulting from judicial decisions, since it makes no sense to exclude also the relevance of profiling prior to the future revocation of Article 14. the, which, by nature, could not, in advance, aim this objective. We therefore propose to correct the departure from the relevance of jus sanguini to acquire Portuguese nationality in cases of establishment of the subsidiary during the minority, repealing Article 14. that of the Law of Nationality, but, as a responsible party that we are, who seeks to work for the benefit of the common good, Portugal and Portuguese communities, we are available to, in a joint work, improve the regime in the field of specialty. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u5	To submit Bill No. 28 / XV / 1. a, from the PCP, has the floor to Mrs Alma Rivera.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing today several initiatives that affect the Law of Nationality, initiatives with different objectives. The proposal of the CFP affects the acquisition of Portuguese nationality by the descendants of the Sephardic Jews, expelled from Portugal between the 15th and 19th centuries, which was introduced in 2013 with Article 6 ( 7 ). the Law of Nationality. at that time, Parliament decided unanimously to remedy the injustice committed against the Sephardic Jews in the period between 1496 — when the Jews and Muslims were expelled from Portuguese territory — and the end of the Inquisition in 1821. The same was done by Spain as an even more demanding law at the level of the requirements. Thus, the law of reparation was approved, amending the rules governing the acquisition of nationality by naturalization and introducing this hypothesis for those who proved to be descendants of Sephardic Jews. About eight years ago on the opening of this possibility, with the publication of the law in 2015, nationality was attributed to about 57 000 people. In the previous legislation, when the first time a greater challenge was made in the acquisition of nationality, a greedy attempt, the Ministers for Foreign Affairs and Justice themselves then confirmed a manifest abuse of the legal regime which was even uncomfortable internationally. The fact is that Article 6 ( 7 ). that of the Law of Nationality was revealed, in fact, a true mine of gold was confirmed. Tens of thousands of citizens, mostly without any relationship with Portugal, invoking sefaritis descent, conveniently certified and conveniently paid also, obtained nationality, in manifest abuse of the law. The best known case may be that of Roman Abramovich. In stark contrast to the difficulty many citizens who have lived for years in Portugal have to acquire nationality, the ease of acquisition through the way of sefordi offspring was publicized by travel agencies that provided this service in Telavive, and by that outside world. at the same time, in Portugal, investigations were initiated on suspicions of facilitation with which the Israeli Community of Porto certified the descent of Sephardic Jews, culminating in the arrest of the rabbi of that community. The CFP understands that the time for repair is already exceeded and, at the moment, what is at stake is the marketing of Portuguese nationality. Spain opened the possibility in 2015 and concluded the process in 2020. From that point on, applications for the acquisition of nationality in Portugal have been greatly increased. The CFP defends a law of nationality which favours an effective link with the country, which does not place unnecessary obstacles to the integration of many citizens who must be legally recognized as Portuguese. It was in this sense that we have presented several proposals over the years that have contributed much to their evolution, valuing those who sought or sought our country for a better life. And it is also in this sense that the Socialist Party's proposal on Article 14 goes. that of the Law of Nationality, today discussed, and, therefore, we will accompany it. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u7	To submit Bill No 122 / XV / 1. a, from the Left Block, has the floor Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block brings to the debate an initiative to redress an injustice that is unacceptable to us. Today, in Portugal, there are people who are foreign in their own country. Many children, many children of immigrants, even though they were born here, continue without access to Portuguese nationality, thus seeing themselves deprived of fundamental citizenship rights. The Left Block has over time made a firm commitment to correct this historical injustice and today is the day when justice can be done due to these thousands of people. Today, we reiterate that a law of nationality appropriate to a cosmopolitan and diverse country, as we want Portugal to be, must be based on a guiding principle: who is born in Portugal must be Portuguese or Portuguese. This is a struggle in which we have always been accompanied by anti-racist organizations, because we both defend a human right and citizenship, and today we do it again. There are other initiatives under discussion, the PSD and other parties to eliminate Article 14. — and we believe that, within the scope of the specialty, we will be able to work together to approve these measures — and there are another set of diplomas, relating to the Jewish sectarians and the legal amendments that have been in force for almost seven years, for which we, realizing that they had an important and relevant historical moment, consider that perhaps now, in particular, it is also the time to make the fade out of their existence. Gaining Portuguese nationality is an ambition for many of those who live today in our country and for many of those who have also been born here, but it is a dream that is too often horrifying on the bureaucratic and legal wall that denies their rights and belonging to the national community. That is why we are bringing this legislative initiative to redress this injustice. for human rights, for the dignity of the human person, for a cosmopolitan, diverse, inclusive country, this is the Law of Nationality that we want for a country with these characteristics and it is therefore that we present this proposal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u9	To submit Bill No 126 / XV / 1. a and also Bill No 127 / XV / 1. the, since the Book presented two projects, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u10	Mr. President, Dear colleagues : Today we will talk about jus soli and jus sanguinas, we will talk about article 14. the sefardi, but behind these words, it is people we talk about, people who find out that their father, who died during the war, is Portuguese, who want to recover these roots, who want to react to their nationality. We talk about people who are children and children of immigrants in Portugal and who, as Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares said, of the Block of the Left, recently, are foreign in the country they recognize as their own. We talk about people who want to return and react to secular cultural ties with their homeland. The principles we must follow are whether it is right for the people we speak of and whether it is good for cohesion and national identity. Let us then speak of these people and speak of all those who have seen their nationality further because of Article 14. and that, in adults, they want to react to their nationality, and we must do this justice to them. And let's talk about sefaritas. contrary to what is thought, this is not the first return of sefardites to Portugal. There was a first return of Sephardites to Portugal, when, with the constitutional monarchy, many took advantage of the abolition of the Inquisition to return to Portugal. Without this first return of sefordians, we would not have Alfredo Bensaúde, founder of the Technical Higher Institute, we would not have Moses Bensabat Amzalak, founder of the ISEG ( Superior Institute of Economics and Management), we would not have Joshua Benoliel, the first and greatest of our photojournalists, and we would probably not have Jorge Bensaúde Sampaio, our President of the Republic. What the Assembly of the Republic has decided to do, in terms of reparation and historical justice, with the so-called 'law of the Sephardites' is good and fair. If there have been abuse and fraud, we must respond to these abuses and fraud by improving the law, not repealing it, because it is also people we talk about. And no, they are not all « Abramovich », they are the couple of Sephardic Jews of Turkish origin who live in port and wrote to me, saying that they sought a non-polarized country, not authoritarian for their children; it is the colonist, also Turkish, who told me that he was asking for Portuguese nationality, because if his country became a dictatorship it would be fair for Portugal to return what took from his ancestors; it is the Venezuelan intellectual who wrote to me, saying that he wanted to ask Portuguese nationality only after learning Portuguese. That is why the draft law of the Free responds, improving the law, introducing effective criteria of connection with nationality, such as language learning, scientific work or belonging to civic and cultural associations...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u11	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u12	It's taking her sound!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u13	... defense, preservation of Portuguese culture and sefardi. We believe that this is the way forward and we are available to work in the specialty in order to achieve these objectives.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u14	To submit Bill No 132 / XV / 1. the, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor of Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u15	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill we present here seeks to heal the legal obstacle that currently prevents Portuguese descendants, whose affiliation was established in the majority, from accessing Portuguese nationality. It is not understood that, on the basis of a criterion of age relating to the time of establishment, direct descendants of Portuguese are prevented from being Portuguese, even though they feel and want to be Portuguese. This situation demonstrates a clear and, in our view, unjustified inequality in cases where someone has been profiled in the minority and can therefore already be considered Portuguese. More: we have not been able to conceive that a legal standard that has remained similar since 1959, and whose consensus has been questioned, changes only in a little significant and insufficient way, as expressed in some proposals that are presented to us today. In fact, although the current framework is slightly improved, the Socialist Party's proposal introduces new temporary limitations to the possibility of granting nationality. It seems to us to be short and unnecessary to impose a period of 3 years to require the allocation of nationality. In addition to short, it seems to us also complex, since this three-year period begins from the transit in court of a decision which, in some cases, may be foreign and which, therefore, may still be the subject of a review of sentence. Moreover, we ask ourselves: what will happen to past situations, whose transit in trial has already occurred more than 3 years ago? Why complicated, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen? Still, we will be available to discuss these practical issues in the field of specialty with the PS. On the other hand, the bill that the Liberal Initiative presents today is manifestly simpler and does not create excessive barriers that distort what is intended with these initiatives: allowing people profiled in the majority to be Portuguese. Simple, but fair and guaranteeing the rights that have been limited to these citizens for decades. Our project allows a direct descendant of Portuguese to require, at all times, Portuguese nationality, provided its affiliation is correct and legally established. Our project also includes all profiling modalities, including the volunteer, not limiting it only to a affiliation that occurs in court proceedings. For us, it is very clear that the social value framework has undergone substantial changes since 1959, changes, these, which make it incompatible with legal restrictions dated and which have already disappeared over time. But this is not only evident for the Liberal Initiative, it is also evident for all those citizens who contacted us and made us aware of this issue, with the aim of ending this negative discrimination. It is for you who are here today, presenting this bill, and giving you a voice, in fulfilling our duty as representatives of the people. Today, we give a voice to these people, in the hope that the remaining sitting parties in this House will be sensitive to this cause. on our part, the Liberal Initiative will be fully available to dialogue and debate with all of you the steps to be taken to reach the right port. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u16	To submit Bill No 133 / XV / 1. a, of the Socialist Party, has the floor to Mrs Alexandra Leitão.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u17	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We understand that the rule that determines that only the affiliation established during the minority is relevant for the purpose of attribution of originating nationality as set out in Article 14. that of the Law of Nationality, should be reviewed in the light of the principle of equality, insofar as it introduces a differentiation according to age. This is a standard that is based on the original version of the Nationality Law and which results from the understanding that the affiliation established at the moment before the majority translates into an educational influence that may take place within the family in a period of personality formation. By disappearing this situation, in principle, with the majority, it is clear that a affiliation established after that moment may have a different value, in terms of presumption to reveal the psychological and sociological integration in the national community. Even so, and because this justification does not exhaust all the multiple possible situations and there is a vast Portuguese community that deserves protection, we believe that it is justified to revisit the regime, giving it greater openness, in order to avoid unequal treatment—even if it does not afford the unconstitutionality of a solution that is based on a distinction based on age — operating in this way an approximation of regimes, before and after the majority, which appears appropriate. However, it must be ensured that the establishment of affiliation is done rigorously and reliably, finding a solution that confers legal certainty and certainty. hence the option for a judicial decision establishing the affiliation. The Law of Nationality is a diploma whose legal certainty and security and its stability must be particularly valued. In order to ensure these objectives, the PS Parliamentary Group project proposes the introduction of a criterion of acceptance of the effects on the allocation of nationality when the majority is established, but following the judicial process after its transit to the judge, not neglecting, of course, the need for the review of foreign judgement, where the court order is another, with or without subject to a time limit for such nationality to be required. This is a position that guarantees the legal certainty and security that the Nationality Law requires and that we are available for work in the field of specialty, in order to arrive at solutions in this line, by meeting the principle of equality and strengthening the links that are duly proven and relevant. As regards the projects dealing with Article 6 ( 7 ). that of the Law of Nationality, which allows the granting of nationality to the descendants of the Portuguese Sephardic Jews, we believe that the regime should be more rigorous, more demanding, more transparent and clearer, in order to avoid all fraud situations, with criteria that demonstrate the effective connection to Portugal and possibly with transitional provisions that guarantee legal certainty and security. Also here, we are available for work in the specialty. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u18	To submit Bill No 134 / XV / 1. a, of the NAP, has the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u19	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I begin by welcoming the various people who are part of the movement for the repeal of Article 14. it is a group of citizens with a clear and tireless mission, which, over recent years, has struggled to put an end to an injustice that is still foreseen in our Nationality Law, and for which it has sought to raise awareness of this House of democracy, an injustice for many people whose parents have only recognized fatherhood or maternity in the adult age of their children. Portugal, with the changes it has made over time in the area of nationality, has presented one of the most favorable models in the world for the acquisition of nationality. An example of this is precisely the case of the historical repair of the Sephardic Jews, already mentioned here today. However, despite the Portuguese legal system being internationally recognized as favourable to the acquisition of nationality, there are still aspects in this legislation that need to be improved, one of them being, absolutely none of them, the elimination of discrimination present in Article 14. o. in the same way that historically acknowledged the same rights to children born inside and outside the marriage, does not make sense this border, from the point of view of nationality. And this rule discriminates against the child or daughter according to the height of recognition of this kinship, with the alleged premise that, in this way, Portuguese nationality will be allowed to be attributed to an indeterminate number of persons who are said to have no materially relevant relationship with the country. There are many reasons why filiation may not take place before the children reach the majority. Therefore, by maintaining this discrimination on the basis of mere perception, it is ignored that the affiliation established in the minority is not synonymous with emotional connection, because there are cases in which minors do not deprive the father of Portuguese nationality, and it is also ignored that the establishment of nationality in the majority may be synonymous with total absence of ties with the country. This perception is thus not only unfair enough as a violation of the constitutionally envisaged principle of equality. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: More than a legal issue, this rule deals with life stories of people born, including in our country. There are various and distinct cases in the numerous countries of the diaspora, but they have a common appeal: the repeal of Article 14. the, which is not exhausted in the allocation of nationality, but which allows, before, all people that their link with Portugal, their country, is restored.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u20	For an intervention, Mr António Maló de Abreu, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me, Mr President, to congratulate you on this opportunity, because we are both Members elected by the circle of Outside of Europe, that is, by the compatriots who have honoured us with their vote and force us here to give their voice and to defend their rights. For Portugal, there cannot be « us» and « them», Portuguese first and second, those who are here or those who have made themselves alive, even to the farthest distant part of the world, as many as alone in the fierce fear of having and giving bread to their children. The PSD is seeking legislative amendments that eliminate the situation in Europe, such as the situation in Article 14. the Law of Nationality. It is important to put a final point on the matter, which is, of course, to say "reject the saying of which! , for I have in my mind that this is the precise expression for the desired decision what it is necessary to do so that «the old ransom does not spoil the new oil». And this, apparently not, gives a spark of hope to the communities, because they know that every decision we make may correspond to the startling of a fruit, but we also know that every hesitation of us, greater is the weariness of one more disappointment. The Portuguese homeland must never be a stepmother of its children and may not want to be a mother only when it is convenient for some. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u22	Thank you, Mr. and Mr. Caro Colleague for your compliments. For an intervention, Mr Bruno Nunes, of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u23	Mr. President, in your own person, I welcome all those present. Tomorrow, June 24, we will celebrate the Battle of São Mamede, of 1128, in which our great nation was able to start building its history. No, we're not for sale!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u24	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u25	You guys are!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u26	No, Portuguese nationality is not a blanket of flaps made by anyone! [[Congrats from the CH.]] When we look at our flag, where red symbolizes conquest, victory and shed blood, we think it deserves more respect in some of the proposals that have been presented here. And no, we have not put forward any proposals, because we believe that the Law of Nationality should have a serious review and should include a constitutional review. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It cannot be done, because they want to come behind each other to present drags within the discussion, to try to mediate the matter. We're not going into that!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u28	An ex-Minister of Finance came to say, in a hearing, that the legal regime established in 2013 had created various abuses and was creating a serious problem of contempt of the country itself. This former Minister of Finance, Augusto Santos Silva, is today presiding at the sitting and I hope that tomorrow, during the vote, you will realize that we have to defend Portugal. There is, of course, a lot that must be rectified, historical errors that VV. They committed, like what they did with those returned and the children of those returned, after a shameful decolonization. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Historical justice must be done, yes, but VV. Ex.as cannot, in any way, continue to place on the pages of newspapers that buy Portuguese nationality is a high-ranking business in Portugal. The speaker displayed a sheet with a newspaper news. Acquiring Portuguese nationality is becoming easier because it has become vulgar. Today, we have some bills here that say that a foreigner in de facto union with a Portuguese national can acquire Portuguese nationality through the presentation of a declaration issued by the parish board.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u29	How is that possible? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u30	Have shame! Ultimately, this should almost be a crime of litre-fatherhood, for the offense they do to our nation, to our homeland and to those who died and shed blood, in struggle for Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u31	The Bureau did not register any more entries for speeches, so to close the debate, Mr Paulo Mota Pinto, of the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As a balance sheet of these interventions, I wanted to leave here the record that, in our view, the PSD was good at scheduling and presenting this bill, since it will put an end to unjustified discrimination. It makes no sense today, considering that only those who see establish affiliation during the minority can assume that they have integration into the national community. On the other draft laws, I would like to say that we will not follow the revocation of the regime that extended the possibility of acquiring nationality to Sephardic Jews, because we believe that the reasons for repairing the historical damage that were underlying that regime still exist today, although we are available to, in the specialty, revisit and increase control and requirements to avoid fraud. So we will make it possible for the project that goes in this direction, which is the project of the Free. I also wanted to say that, as we know, there were some projects that came behind the PSD project, from various parties such as the Free, the Liberal Initiative and even the Socialist Party, as regards article 14. that of the Law of Nationality, and we see here a speech that we have already become accustomed to, tearing our garments, because all that other parliamentary groups do is a crime of read-fathering, since it has a completely exclusive conception of Portugal... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u33	... and also excluding Portuguese nationality. It's not our conception. [[PSD applause.]] [[CH protests.]] That, yes, is that it is a vision contrary to the history of Portugal and the role that the Portuguese had in the world.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u34	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u35	If anyone has a vision contrary to the history of Portugal is the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u36	I wanted to say that we also do not follow the Socialist Party's project in the restriction that it makes to our project, because it only wants to admit the relevance of affiliation in most cases of judicial decision. It makes no sense to accept that, for example, a person who had been profiled 30 years ago—when he was 20 years old—has been anticipating that this requirement would be revoked and cheated. Therefore, in the specialty, we must agree on how we eliminate fraud and how we tighten the requirements also regarding the nationality regime for Sephardic Jews. We are therefore available to deal with these matters in our specialty. We repudiate the exclusive concept that we heard here a little while ago... [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u37	Look at me, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u38	... we think it was really worth scheduling this matter and we greet those who approached our bill and presented similar projects. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u39	Join the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u40	We therefore close the first item on the agenda, and we refer to the second point, which is the general assessment of the Proposal for a Law No 120 / XIV/ 3. a ( ALRAA ) — First amendment to Decree-Law No 109 - B / 2021 of 7 December, which approves the update of the minimum monthly guaranteed remuneration value and creates an exceptional compensation measure. By agreement between all parliamentary groups, the vote on this bill, which was requested by the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, will be held at the end of the debate on this point. He therefore called on the parliamentary groups to inform their Members and their Members properly, as there will be quorum verification immediately before this vote. There is, of course, no place for the introduction of the bill, for an intervention, Mrs Alexandra Moura of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing today the proposed law of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, which aims to change the application of the exceptional measure of compensation for the value of the monthly minimum wage. This proposal is intended to include companies in the autonomous regions. In this respect, and because this Parliament must respect the political, administrative and financial autonomy of the autonomous regions, we must remember that it is this autonomy that allows subsidies to be fixed, as well as implementing support measures, in accordance with which the regional governments thus understand it appropriate to the framework of their regional budgets. To be clear: from our point of view, it is up to the regional government to promote such support. In parallel with this question, it is good to clarify that this proposal violates, in our understanding, the law-work. We know that the application of this law at the moment will have implications for the current State budget. More: from our point of view, this proposal should not even have been accepted. And the premise, as it is in the opinion of the Regional Assembly of the Azores, that « Having the increase in the minimum wage has been decreed throughout the national territory, the exceptional compensation support measure should also cover the whole country and not only the continent », is not correct, because the compensation of the State budget is paid to companies based in the continental territory, and only. If the Regional Government believes that these measures should be extended to the region, it must promote the same measure within the framework of its budget and the institutions which protect it. Mr President, I leave a final note to finish: it was the increase in the national minimum wage that guaranteed a fairer remuneration for Portuguese and Portuguese, which catapulted the economy and, above all, that broke the path of impoverishment and the cycle of poverty of many families. That is the way we are going to continue, but that path has to be together, of all governments. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u42	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The aim of this initiative is to extend the application of the compensation measure set up by Decree-Law No 109 - B / 2021 to companies located in autonomous regions. It should start by saying that the CFP rejects the allocation of any compensation to companies by increasing the national minimum wage. This compensation is an incentive to pay low wages. Companies pay the minimum legally provided and are awarded for this, which is unacceptable. More: who wins with this compensation? Large businesses and economic groups. We remember that, in March, a list was published with companies that received support in this field and, of the 10 companies that received the most, 6 are temporary or outsourcing companies and 2 are in the area of large distribution, and these covered about 25 % of the total value of support. They are companies that annually accumulate colossal profits, which practice precariousness as daily action, at the same time that they stand out by the payment of poor wages, as indeed the allocation of these money proves. And these are the main beneficiaries of public money. at the same time that responses to the urgent problems for the lives of workers are denied, that the general value of wages is refused, that the increase in the minimum wage is less than necessary and possible, that the cost of living disappears, without the government taking measures to stop it, that social protection is insufficient, not covering all those who need it and arriving late to the life of workers and families, the government chooses, with published diplomas, including the one being discussed to be changed, to compensate the employers for the increase in the minimum wage, in a scandalous transfer of the taxes of workers and pensioners to the pockets of shareholders and employers. It is urgent to put an end to the draft which is being done to those who work and to those who have worked their entire lives, and to put an end to the enormous privileges of large businesses and economic groups. This is not a measure that supports micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which need other measures to enable their activity to continue, such as, in fact, the CFP has defended and proposed; this is, yes, a measure that benefits the large capital and places public money to promote work precariousness, transferring, directly and indirectly, income to capital. For the CFP, it is unacceptable for the increase in national minimum wage to be accompanied by exchange coins, which are no longer ways of keeping business profits intact and promoting the payment of low-scale wages, increasing poverty among workers and perpetuating injustices and inequalities. The general value of wages and the increase in national minimum wage are essential conditions for the development of the country and for improving the living conditions of workers, but also for better distribution of wealth created, for higher retirement pensions in the future, for better social protection, for the dynamisation of the internal market, for job creation, for strengthening the financing of social security. from the CFP, we do not follow this proposal, not by the enlargement it provides to the autonomous regions, but because it maintains the allocation of compensation to companies, distorting and perverting the increase of the national minimum wage. The problems felt by workers in the autonomous regions and the difficulties associated with insularity are not solved by such measures. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u44	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, Mr Rui Rocha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Liberal Initiative has a mistrust regarding the validity of such measures to subsidize the allocation of the national minimum wage. This type of measure distorts competition and the market, benefits those who practice low wages, is very, very effective, very doubtful and therefore we do not follow them. This was not the kind of measures we would like to see implemented, which we would like to see was, for example, a lowering of taxes and then companies managed their investment capacity and their human resources policy according to their capabilities. To be promoting market distortions, to benefit those who practice low-wage policies and to be benefiting low-value sectors are not adequate ways to use taxpayers' money. Then, in this Chamber, some are much admired when they come out data that say that qualified workers are having a decrease in their salaries, in this propaganda context that they want to implement about a raise in wages, and they are greatly admired with the consequences of such policies of subsidisation and distortion of the market. Clearly, there is one issue that concerns us. Since this has been decided for the continent, the Azorian or Madeiran companies are on the market where they may also compete with the companies of the continent. This is another problem of this kind of policy. Then distortions happen, and then they happen in an uncontrolled way. But the main note I would like to leave on these policies and subsidies is that we do not subscribe to this type of action, because it perpetuates distortions in the market that we do not subscribe to. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u46	Mr Jorge Galveias spoke on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u47	Ex. Mr. President, Ex.mas Sr.as and Mrs. Members: An illustrious figure of the Socialist Party said, one day, that "who fucks with the PS, leads". Only this maxim so dear to the PS of Antonio Costa can explain the forgetfulness of autonomous regions in Decree-Law No 109 - B / 2021. I recall that the decree in question determined the increase of the national minimum wage from 1 January 2022, and established the creation of an exceptional compensation measure to companies for the increase of the guaranteed monthly minimum wage. However, autonomous regions were excluded from the scope of this decree, leaving the Azores and Madeira companies unable to access the exceptional compensation support measure due to the increase in the national minimum wage. Thus, it created a strange and unfair inequality between companies based on the continent and those based in the Azores and Madeira. The Portuguese know that the PS does not forgive or forget the loss of power in the Azores and the Arrival is very proud to have been responsible for this tremendous defeat. [[Congrats from the CH.]] And the majority on the left knows that socialism is in the days also counted on the continent, in fact, as it could not fail to be, in the face of the increasing difficulties experienced by families. Well, Mr. Prime Minister may say, as he did yesterday, that the country has not impoverished, but we all know how accounts are manageable. You don't have to talk about the right accounts, you have to talk about serious accounts!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u48	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Decree-Law No 109 - B / 2021, of the Socialist Government, implies the existence of first Portuguese and second Portuguese. Two: either it was a political decision by Antonio Costa and his Minister for Finance, Fernando Medina, or it was incompetence and ignorance.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u50	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u51	It is extremely important that the absolute majority of the Socialist Party clearly and unequivocally clarify what is at the basis of this decision, which is discriminatory and anti-institutional, because it discriminates Portuguese living in the Azores and Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u52	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u53	No Portuguese can understand and accept this act of discrimination from the Government of Antonio Costa and Fernando Medina. The Constitution of the Portuguese Republic still defends equality and freedom, despite successive attacks on it by this totalitarian majority of the PS and the former majority, supported by the extreme left.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u54	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u55	The Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira deserve an apology and the Portuguese people demand such an apology. The Macedonians and the Azorians question this absolute majority: how is it possible to create an exceptional measure of support for compensation to companies for the increased guaranteed minimum remuneration which excludes entrepreneurs and companies from the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira? Who will be held responsible for this discrimination and violation of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u56	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u57	How will Madeirans and Azorians be compensated for the damages imposed by this discriminatory law? He is proud to be always by the Portuguese side, throughout the national territory, as well as by our compatriots scattered all over the world. Mrs. Members of the parliamentary majority and ex-partners of management, stop dividing the Portuguese and putting them against each other. Marxism is eximilar in the fragmentation of society, creating conflicts among citizens, putting men against women, young people against adults and, by the way, in Portugal, placing the Portuguese continental against the Portuguese of the autonomous regions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u58	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u59	Enough of the creation of artificial social conflicts, only to divert the attention of the Portuguese people from the tragic results of socialist governance. Socialism is responsible for the greatest tax burden imposed on Portuguese, for the greatest public debt ever, for the degradation of public services in the areas of health, justice, security and education. We have even learned that Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa, has no patience to listen to his Minister of Health in an urgent debate on the scourge that is currently being dealt with by the Portuguese. The arrival will always fight against any attempt to discriminate between the continent and the autonomous regions. This amendment is entirely fair. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u60	Mr. Pedro Pinto, the credit which the Arrival had accumulated remains thus healed. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's laughs.]] For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This bill we are discussing today from the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores brings to the debate the principles of territorial continuity and national solidarity, which are fundamental principles, or should be, emanated from our Constitution, as from the Political-Administrative Statute of the Autonomous Region of the Azores. Our Constitution determines that it is up to the State to ensure the conditions of work, remuneration and rest to which workers are entitled, namely the fixing and updating of the national minimum wage, taking into account, among other factors, the needs of workers and the increase in the cost of living, a factor that is so important today. For all this, we must not fail to regret that the measure which has led to the increase in the minimum wage and exceptional support for compensation to companies in the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira, since it should clearly cover the whole country, which, we remember, is not limited to the continent. This is an inequality that needs to be corrected. Here, we do not follow the position and vision of the CFP in relation to companies, both the PS in relation to the labour law and the question of autonomy itself. We must not forget that, if there is to be a national minimum wage and an increase in minimum and medium wages, there must be the ability of the companies themselves to pay the workers. More: the law-work, and I remember that this initiative is of the previous legislation, can be mitigated and overcome in the process of specialty. We will be available to take this path and we hope that the PS, when it speaks in poverty, will remember that the Azores have precisely the poorest regions of our country and that we must therefore reach these initiatives where they are most needed, and also to businesses.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u62	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Free House.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The rise of the minimum wage is made in the interest of the national economy as a whole and calling for the efforts of economic operators. We may or may not agree with the State's decision to support this effort or not, but the truth is that it was taken by the national government. Since the minimum wage covers the entire national territory and is extensible to the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira, they should have been contracted or negotiated own aid packages to those regions so that they could, if they so wished, support companies in their territories. That wasn't done. But we will not violate autonomy if we follow, or at least do not make it impossible, what the Azorian regional democracy itself asks us to do. That is why, whether or not to agree with the granting of support to companies to cope with the rise in the minimum wage, the Livre believes that there is a question of justice and territorial continuity that we must follow, not impermissible the proposal which is sent to us here by the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u64	For an intervention, on behalf of the Left Block, Mr José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It has already been said many times, but it is never too much to insist that the increase in the minimum wage is fundamental from the point of view of social justice, the distribution of wealth, is a measure to combat poverty and is also an economically correct measure. It does not harm productivity or exports, it does not destroy jobs, but it contributes to job creation, precisely by increasing domestic demand on which small and medium-sized enterprises depend. In fact, if we look at the history of recent decades, the minimum wage still has a lot to do with productivity increases. And this year, even this year, we know that, with the increase in the cost of living and prices of essential goods, with inflation, the increase in the minimum wage is being eaten by this process.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u66	Sir, allow me to interrupt you. I ask the House to create conditions for Mr José Soeiro to be heard. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u67	Thank you very much, Mr President. The idea of counterparties of the kind we are discussing here is wrong, from the point of view of the Left Block, for three reasons. Firstly, because it is an incentive, it is a premium for companies to pay lower wages, i.e. it is a premium for companies that choose to pay the lowest wages that the law allows, it is a subsidy that is given to businesses not because of their innovation, not because of the stability of labour relations that promote, not because they create jobs, not because of productive development, but because of their low wages policy. So it's a wrong incentive. Secondly, measures of this kind are unfair, because they treat firms in difficulty and companies with large profits in the same way and press companies that, for example, have giant payrolls, where a manager and a worker within the same company have a difference of 200 times the wages of each other, and companies like these receive a subsidy for paying minimum wages. Thirdly, it is a kind of wrong support, because the problem of small and medium-sized enterprises is not wages. On average, we know that wages correspond to about 20 % of production costs. We therefore intervene on what are the difficulties of small and medium-sized enterprises, such as energy bill, communication cost, credit policy, and not through unjustified premiums on low-wage management policies, which is what this measure does. We are not in favour of this measure, we were not in favour, when the government took it to the continent, we did not favor it in the Azores and we did not favor it. This measure is no longer just and is no longer wrong because it is applied in the Azores or because it is applied on the continent. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u68	For an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Francisco César has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The fact is that this proposal, even though it was adopted in January of this year in the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, was referred to the Assembly of the Republic at the time of the transition of the legislature and re-established to this legislature. However, something that is factual and unforgettable is that, at the time this proposal is discussed and appreciated, it clearly violates the labour law, because we already have the approved and promulgated budget. It adds another problem with this proposal: because if it is at a time that does not allow it to produce effects and is effective, there is a whole set of amendments that should be discussed here, not being the focus of the discussion only on whether it fulfils a formality or not. in this regard, the Members of the Socialist Party and, in particular, the Members of the Socialist Party of the Azores are very pleased because they have done everything to ensure that this proposal could be discussed in committee, going down to the committee without a vote, with the consent of the Parliament of the Autonomous Region of the Azores. The fact is that in the Parliament of the Autonomous Region of the Azores there was no unanimity—in fact, because of the responsibility of the parties on the right here—this proposal did not have the consent of the Parliament of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, even after this Member had made several contacts with the Parliament of the region and sent a letter to the President of the Parliament of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, in order to allow the committee to go down without a vote, so that work could be done on improving this diploma and on the merits which I believe this diploma has. Therefore, if today the question arises is that of labour law, it is only and exclusively because in the Azores Parliament the right-wing Members, in particular, did not want this discussion to be done as it should be in this Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We will therefore end up discussing the formal component rather than the merit that the proposal should have. We know that in the Azores Parliament, in particular the parties on the right did not want this to happen. The Members of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira now have the possibility of, in the proposal which they have also approved, correcting the problem of the labour law and making it manifestly unconstitutional when this proposal reaches this Parliament for violating the labour law.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u70	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u71	I will now finish, Mr President. In view of this, the Socialist Party Members who have supported this proposal will not follow the way in which their parliamentary group votes, but deeply regret that the issue we are discussing today is not the merit of the proposal, but the fact that it is manifestly unconstitutional. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u72	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, I give the floor to Mr Francisco Pimentel.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My intervention is to discuss merit and not the procedural or procedural issue, because the national diploma,... [[PS protests.]] ...the decree-law we're talking about, is a diploma that annually proceeds to update the national minimum wage... [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] Let me finish, I heard him carefully. I said that the diploma shall update the value of the guaranteed monthly minimum wage. So, what is the difference in this Decree-Law No 109 - B / 2021 in relation to the previous diploma? As my colleague from the CFP said, there was no compensation in the diploma that updated the national minimum wage for 2021. Therefore, it is a policy that updates the national minimum wage through the designation of guaranteed minimum monthly remuneration. Well, this diploma has a nuance for this year. First, I am perplexed by the honourable Member being talking about a law-work, a procedural unconstitutionality, to justify the maintenance of a substantive unconstitutionality, which is the differentiated treatment for the Azores and Madeira entrepreneurs, as if they were—as someone said, and well, here — entrepreneurs of 2. o or 3. the degrees. [[PSD applause.]] This is unacceptable, but I understand your situation: at the moment you are "taught up" by the position of your parliamentary group. [[Protests from PS Eurico Brilliant Days and Francisco César.]] But this serves to say that, in 2022, the national minimum wage was updated, increased from 665 € to 705 €...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u74	You were against it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u75	...and this is the pure and raw situation. Well, anyway, if this diploma is a national diploma that updates the national minimum wage and which has this nuance—to compensate employers creates a monetary compensation—because the burden of water is that this monetary compensation for the national minimum wage is made to the entrepreneurs of the continent, a rule that did not exist in the previous diploma—see the previous diploma! —... [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] No, no, sir, make an effort to study. Go see the previous diploma and let me finish, because when I intervene I don't speak! But this serves to clarify and make it clear that there is only one and only one national minimum wage, and for those who have doubts — still thought that they would invoke this argument, that we would be facing a regional minimum wage for the Azores and Madeira — I repeat, there is no regional minimum wage for the Azores and Madeira, as you know, there are increases. That is why, since you did not have this argument, you came to invoke the law-work. [[Protests from PS Eurico Brilliant Days and Francisco César.]] This is the same as saying that this diploma to update the national minimum wage, which was approved at the end of last year, was approved and, as I said very well in the twelfth regime, because there was no budget. [[Protests from PS Eurico Brilliant Days and Francisco César.]] It's true! And when this was presented here there was no Budget either. I am therefore puzzled, Mr President, by coming to invoke a question of formal unconstitutionality to sustain a substantive unconstitutionality. This is not how the Azores and Madeira entrepreneurs stand up for themselves. Let's see if we understand each other in this matter! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u76	You cannot legislate against the Constitution itself!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u77	It's not my case! I think you're an economist, I'm still a lawyer! in this context, the proposed law that was presented here by the Regional Legislative Assembly of the Azores was passed by a majority in the Azores, with the favorable votes, if I do not fail the memory of the PSD, of the Socialist Party – my friend was ill at the time— of the CDS-PP, of the PPM and, if I am not mistaken, also of the Arrival. He therefore gathered this unanimity. Those who did not support it invoke the question that there should not be a compensation measure. But it exists, and if there is this compensation measure for the entrepreneurs of the continent, why does it not exist for those of the Azores and Madeira? Why are we inferior in this matter? Oh, my God! My dear friends, to conclude, full respect for the constitutional principles of equality, justice and equity in the treatment is due to all national employers, because, as I know, Portugal is still one, as the Constitution says, from north to south, including the Azores and Madeira. Therefore, apply to them, too, to our Azores and Madeira entrepreneurs, what is their own right. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u78	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded the debate on this second item on the agenda. under Article 169. the Rules of Procedure, the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores requested the vote on the day of the discussion itself and we will therefore proceed with that vote below. I ask the services which open the register for the quorum verification. [[Pause.]] I ask the services that close the registration period and advertise the result. [[Pause.]] There are 190 Members present, and there are four other Members. Members who failed to register electronically: Paula Santos, PCP, Luís Soares, PS, Antonio Maló de Abreu and Ricardo Baptista Leite, PSD. The Liberal Initiative can always be registered and the arrival is exemplary in this part of the system. [[Laughing.]] We shall then, in general, proceed to the vote on the Bill No 120 / XIV / 3. a ( ALRAA ) — First amendment to Decree-Law No 109 - B / 2021 of 7 December, which approves the update of the minimum monthly guaranteed remuneration value and creates an exceptional compensation measure. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the BE were rejected, votes against the PS, the CH, the NAP and 6 PS Members and IL and L abstentions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u79	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u80	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u81	Mr President, it is to announce that the Members elected by the Azores will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u82	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u83	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u84	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u85	Mr President, it is to inform that the Members elected by the Autonomous Region of Madeira will make a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u86	It is also registered, Mr. At the end of the voting period, we turn to item 3 of our agenda, with the general assessment of Bills Nos. 809 / XIV / 2. a ( Citizens) — Values of national and international political education, 115 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Evaluation and recognition of polytechnic higher education, recognizing the possibility of conferring the degree of doctor and 125 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Creates the possibility of administration of doctors in the polytechnic higher education subsystem by amending the Basic Law of the Education System and the Legal Regime of Higher Education Institutions. To submit Bill No 115 / XV / 1. a, from the PCP, has the floor of Mrs Diana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group on the dynamizers of this legislative initiative of citizens, reaffirming the position that the CFP has had of valuing and recognising political education and its role in public higher education and in the development of the regions in which it is inserted, but also from all over the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u88	Mrs. Diana Ferreira, I apologize for interrupting, but I ask Mrs. Members to create conditions so that this issue, which is of the highest importance, can be appreciated, listening to each other. Mrs Diana Ferreira, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u89	Thank you very much, Mr President. Public higher education has accumulated decades of underfunding resulting from policy options of successive governments in this regard, resulting in a clear limitation of their potentials and bringing deep losses to higher education, to their professionals and also to students. The rhetoric of 'competitiveness', which took possession of the science and higher education policy, has always served as a pretext for the State to step away from its functions before the institutions, obliging them to resort to the collection of own revenue which, in the overwhelming majority of situations, are the result of the collection of tips. at the same time, the absence of a strategic policy for the National Scientific and Technological System, which clearly defines the role and mission of universities, polytechnics and state laboratories, contributes to the dispute of funding and tasks with prejudice to all and to the country. The public higher education network in Portugal has shown, despite the difficulties it faces, to be able to raise the qualification of the population and to translate into regional development gains that would otherwise be impossible to achieve. However, the public supply of higher education falls short of the existing needs, possibilities and potential, either to ensure the constitutional right of everyone to education and knowledge, including at the highest levels of education, either in the contribution to the country's economic, technological and scientific development. In our country, polytechnic higher education has been the target of a policy of systematic devaluation, the result of a strategic conception that has been carried out by the PS and the parties to its right that, with its political options, puts polytechnic higher education as a second category higher education, conception that we reject and we have fought. from the PCP, we advocate a unitary system for public higher education, a model of dignity, quality and equal funding for different missions between institutions or even between organizational units of the same institution. However, it is of the most fundamental justice that, even in a binary system, equal rights are guaranteed to teachers of each subsystem. It is also recognized that, over the last decades, polytechnic higher education has been built and maintained with a brutal and self-contributory contribution of teachers, often hired to the part, subject to high precarious work, both from an administrative point of view, and often from a formal and legal point of view. This is a reality that the CFP has denounced and for which we have also submitted proposals that resolve the work situation of these teachers, ensuring their effective link to the institutions. from the PCP, we have defended, at different times, the possibility of conferring the degree of doctor in polytechnic higher education, taking into account the evolution that has occurred in recent years, with a large number of doctoral teachers and an increase in scientific research in these institutions, which has added a broad set of other requirements necessary for accreditation of doctoral studies, which are increasingly present. It is in this sense that the PCP presents this bill, providing for this same possibility: that of the institutions of higher political education can confer the degree of doctor. We will accompany the other initiatives under discussion and, of course, we are available for specialized work that meets the needs that are put here. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u90	To submit Bill No 125 / XV / 1. the, presented by BE, has the word Mrs. Joana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: over the last few decades, higher education has expanded - it has diversified - it has democratized - itself. It was responding to the demands of education and training, in an increasingly complex and demanding democracy, of more qualified public services, of a more modern economy. Above all, higher education was responding to the expectations of new generations to whom it was promised that they would live better than their parents. Today, what is proposed is that we look at higher education critically. It is necessary to find in the system the entropies and budget sub-decorations that subject it to other interests than that of the general elevation of the country's educational, cultural and scientific level, but it is also necessary to identify the conservative remnants of elitism and the social reproduction of inequalities. I believe that it is in this movement that we have to look at the proposals of this citizens' legislative initiative, and I would like to stress, from the very outset, how their proponents have intended to bring the demands on political education to Parliament. They are intended for tenderers, in which they naturally, but not exclusively, include institutions of higher political education, two amendments: withdrawing the legal limitation which prevents policymakers from granting the degree of doctor and adopting the designation of 'polytechnic university' in place of 'polytechnic institute'. The Left Block accompanies the first claim with a draft law itself and will accompany the second claim with favorable votes. Starting with the possibility of political institutes confer a degree of doctorate, the Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education itself initiated this process in the previous legislation, although it did not complete it for reasons that were not appointed, but that we all suspected. Our proposal, like that of the polytechnics, is that these institutions can give the degree of doctor if they meet the requirements already laid down in the legal regime of degrees and diplomas. No more, no less! In other words, it ends with an artificial impediment and creates concrete impediments, which are to know whether that particular institution has, or not, qualifications and abilities to confer the degree of doctor. What can not be done is to generalize and say that no political institution has this capacity, especially when 50 % of the teaching body of the polytechnic is already a doctorate and there are dozens of scientific research units evaluated and certified. There is a need for a strategy to democratise access to education at its highest levels, without making any concessions in scientific quality. The second claim, which is the possibility of adopting the designation of 'polytechnic university', in addition to subjective issues, seems to us to have an irrefutable material argument, which is the majority nomenclature in the European higher education system and the international recognition of our political institutes, both for the attraction of students and for the attraction of investment and partnerships. Mrs. Members, all of us, or at least many of us, the majority, have been elected by electoral circles with political higher education institutions. We know the importance of their efforts for regional development, for the democratization of higher education, to qualify a population and an economy that would otherwise not be possible. Of course, this is not the reason why the Left Block is advancing with this initiative, but I confess that, knowing what I know about the Setúbal Polytechnic Institute, it would be very difficult to reject the arguments based on the excellence of the knowledge produced there to justify its claims. It is enough to remember, in an area that is expensive to me, that some of the biggest educational policy specialists in this country have founded their higher education school. Polytechnic higher education evolved, qualified and gained skills. That's undeniable. The question is whether the system will recognize this appreciation. So, here we have come, the critical perspective on this question raises a final question: is there any argument that prevents these amendments that are not based on a conservative and elitist view of higher education? So far, the Left Block understands no. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u92	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing the enhancement of political education with proposals that include a legislative initiative of citizens, whose promoters we greet. We are very comfortable in this debate because it was always the PS to give the decisive impulses for continued growth, reinforcement, expansion and enhancement of polytechnic higher education. The explanation is simple: we have always been aware of the important contribution of the polytechnics to the qualification of people, organizations and territories and to the social and territorial cohesion of the country. The country is now in a position to take new steps in strengthening the higher education system, a binary system, with a university subsystem and a political subsystem, which integrates the advantages of institutional diversity, diversity of missions, diversity of instruments and wealth of complementarity, where cooperation and competition are two aspects of the common commitment to the development of the country. For this reason, that no one counts with the PS...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u94	We never count on PS for anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u95	...to make this debate and this legislative process a confrontation of universities against politicians or politicians against universities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This process of debate and decision involves central issues for the development of higher education, such as that of making the best use of the diversification of higher education, mobilising all the installed capacity of institutions. The subject of doctoral studies is crucial here. The Government, since 2018, with the modification of the legal regime of degrees and diplomas, has already created the appropriate legal basis for the ability to confer the degree of doctor to be supported by strict accredited quality criteria applied to each institution in particular with high level of requirement. What this House has to do is remove the brakes remaining to the full implementation of this government diploma. Another issue is internationalization. Higher education has made remarkable progress in recent years in integrating it into international flows of production and transmission of knowledge. We must continue on this path, and therefore we must look at the obstacles identified and solutions that can be removed, particularly as regards policymakers. In order for this open and open debate to be possible, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will vote on bills to ensure that we pass on to its analysis in the field of expertise. That does not mean that we agree with all the aspects of the proposals put forward, but that we want a decision and we want this to become a debate of the whole of society on the paths to the future of our political and universities. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u96	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cláudia André has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The discussion we started sparked the debate about the differences between universities and politicians. For PSD, it is important that they exist. Portugal has a solid supply of higher education, distributed by the university and technical subsystems. It is important to preserve this wealth, as well as the nature of the two, in a logic of reinforcement and complementarity, and not of competition between themselves. Times evolve, concepts and practices as well. Thus, we note that the functions of both subsystems did not hold up, fortunately, in time. The universities approach companies, services and practice and the polytechnics invested in highly specialized research centres, developing knowledge at the service of their territories. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u98	In a country where only 27% of the population between 25 and 64 years of age has higher education, we desperately need the fruits of all higher education institutions. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u99	We need your training mission and your research to bet on innovation. In the interior territories, higher education institutions are vital to their survival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u100	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u101	What would be from the district of Castelo Branco without the Polytechnic Institute of Castelo Branco or the University of Beira Interior? Oh, my God! in the agro-food sector, the training of companies and services will be crucial to combat depopulation and find the response adapted to the needs of different regions of the country. For this to happen, it will be essential not to block access to instruments that make it possible. For the PSD, the changes made must maintain and safeguard the quality and efficiency of the educational process, the production of knowledge and good management. These are designs for which we must govern, regardless of the interests of each institution and of each professional class. We do not expect any other interest other than that of the communities, the territory, Portugal. Universities understand that there is a need for a broad and integrated discussion about the whole higher education system. We agree! Polytechnics mean they are losing financial, scientific and academic competitiveness, because they are prevented from evolving in their missions, conditioned by administrative limitations. Well, these limitations correspond to the impediment to awarding doctorates and their designation considered not to be superior in some countries. In addition to these constraints, the financing model is exceeded, inadequate and manifestly insufficient to meet the challenges that are called. Much of the problems of higher education institutions are due to the lack of structural measures. For years the PSD has claimed a review of the Basics Law of the Education System and even the RJIES (Legal Regime of Higher Education Institutions), but it happens the years and this discussion never happens. It happens that the Socialist Party, the Government party, is not available. Although the basic law is the framework for the development of the entire educational system, its review, in an integrated and structured way, has not merited the acceptance of the PS. Is it fair, then, to keep the whole system of higher education stagnant, immobilized, frozen, for years because we await and then come up with an integrated discussion that never happens? Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will always be able to measure the size of a bad decision or mistake, but we will never be able to measure the injury of what has not been done because of the inertia in which this socialist government is a specialist. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u102	The PSD defends a binary system, believes that the political institutes should not abandon their role of applied nature and of higher-level technical training so important, so necessary for our country, and recognizes the positive signs that leave us very confident in the work of the polytechnics, which has contributed, decisively and indisputably, to the evolution of national and international scientific knowledge. Therefore, the PSD will generally enable this initiative, not meaning that, in the specialty, it approves all the articles or ceases to make proposals to amend them. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u103	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome the more than 20,000 citizens' legislative proposals that we are discussing today and thank you for bringing this important issue, which was close to being resolved but which, because of lack of political will, was not. We are discussing the enhancement of political education and, as the proponents themselves refer to in their citizens' legislative initiative - with which we can not fail to agree - the importance that the political services provided and provided to our country, either through new training, in particular in the technical component, more professional, or by democratizing the access of young people to higher education, which is undoubtedly of important importance. In addition, it is essential not to forget that it is a network of more regionalized and decentralized institutions, which promotes local development and population fixing also in the regions of the country, which should not be disregarded. Moreover, the capacity of the political institutions and the training offer has evolved greatly over the years, as well as the qualification of their teaching bodies, and this evolution shows that there are conditions to strengthen the role of these institutions in the country's innovation and economic and social development. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, for the NAP, the proposed amendments, in particular to which it allows the allocation of the degree of doctorate by the political higher education institutions, fulfilling these ratios of doctors in the scientific area of the programme for university higher education institutions, is at least the most elementary justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u105	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mrs Carla Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to thank the group of citizens who promote the bill under consideration. Today, we are faced with a subject related to the enhancement of political education, so I have to mention, again, some dissatisfaction with the fact that we are again discussing topical issues that are not framed in a more broad and unframed reform of revisions that need to be done in relation to higher education. So let us talk about the draft laws on the valorization of national and international political education. According to DGES (Directorate-General for Higher Education) last year, the number of students enrolled in political education increased by more than 5 % compared to the previous year, representing 37 % of the total, while university education increased by 3 % compared to the same year. In fact, a sign of this growth has to do with the fact that many universities invest in political schools and the opening of specialized higher technical courses — the CTESPs. These initiatives introduce amendments to the Basic Law of the Education System and the Legal Regime of Higher Education Institutions. The Liberal Initiative advocates a review of the basic law and an evaluation of this legal regime, and it is important that we move forward to this stage. But what is proposed here at the moment is the realization of the degree of doctoral attribution by the polytechnics, this claim is ignored by the guardianship...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u107	It is the legislative competence of the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u108	In addition, in 2018, the Legal Regime of Degrees and Diplomas of Higher Education was updated, beginning this process, but the same was incomprehensiblely not completed and now it is important to complete the remaining legal framework. The Liberal Initiative will then support a process that should have been completed long ago by former Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education, Manuel Heitor. In fact, we would not need to be discussing this issue if the government had done its work in a timely manner. It seems to us that the political issue on whether or not to allow the degrees of doctorate — with what we agree — has already been behind us, just trying to finish what has not been concluded because of lack of political will. We are in favour of higher education growth in Portugal? Yes, the Liberal Initiative is in favour, in particular of the competitive system. Should we not be setting a path to responding to the recommendations of the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ), increasing research, development and innovation capacity? Yeah. It is also a design to contribute to investment in applied teaching and related to business tissue. The Liberal Initiative advocates the enhancement of political education in what it represents, in particular, in improving territorial cohesion; in the competitiveness of regions; in the attraction and establishment of young people in interior regions; in the introduction of new areas and specialized courses; in employability in STEAM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts and Mathematics) areas, with the impact that this also has on economic growth, for the objectives of schooling, and, I repeat, on competitiveness at the national and international levels. The reflection on higher education in Portugal cannot fail to be thought of in the international context, and that is why we consider the discussion relevant on the change in the designation of political institutes to political universities. The international component is made not only by this way but also by quality — foreign language, curriculum and quality classes. However, we are sensitive to this argument, and we therefore approve it so that we can discuss this subject in the field of expertise. We would like to make it clear that this does not imply a further drag than the change of the name itself. The country can count on the Liberal Initiative to end barriers and discrimination in political education. These are just steps and we are fulfilling our programme of appreciation of vocational and political education, but we will not fail to promote, in the field of specialty, a greater reflection on the reform of higher education, which is extremely important. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u109	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Proposals for this legislative initiative: In the programme with which the elections were presented, the Book has the electoral commitment to approve a measure such as that presented to us here today, through this citizen legislative initiative, enabling the change of the nomenclature of the political institutes and also seems to us to be fair to follow the possibility of the polytechnics to assign the degree of doctor, provided that this, of course, is awarded with the same requirement that any higher education institution should be governed. We will therefore follow this initiative and others that are being presented by other parliamentary groups in this House. However, I think there is a challenge that we should all face, here and in higher education institutions: not to validate that old academic joke that says that academic wars are so much more intense than what is at stake is less decisive. What is decisive, of course, is far beyond the nomenclature, what is decisive is to change the financing model of higher education, what is decisive is to take the steps that enable us to abolish the tips, what is decisive is to prepare the future that seems difficult for our economy at European and global level, what is crucial is to help politicians and universities to work together, to work on their specialization, but also the cooperation that they have between themselves, what is decisive to evaluate and update the RJIES and revise the basic law of the educational system. For this, we have much more work ahead than merely changing nomenclatures.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u111	Mr Pedro Frazão has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President, I also congratulate you on the exemplary way in which you have conducted this item on the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: I will be very clear and I would like to say that the arrival supports the transition from the designation of political institutes to political universities as well as the right to grant the degree of doctor. It is not just the polytechnics that are at issue, nor are they just discussing legislative or formal aspects, which is at stake the possibility of substantive renewal of all higher education. In recent decades, the political institutes have not stopped consolidating an entire functional structure that gives them academic, human and organizational skills appropriate to their ambitions. It should be stressed that the legislative initiative of the citizens, now under discussion, does not call into question the continuity of the binary system between universities and political universities, defending that they maintain fully autonomous identities and specificities. from the side of arrive, we see no reason for the persistence of a hierarchical relationship between one and the other. Universities need to recognize that they face pressing renewal challenges. The strengthening of complementarity and, above all, competition between universities and polytechnic universities serves as a historically rare booster of this same need for renewal, and thus the Arrival considers this equally advantageous opportunity for universities. Given the dimension of what is at stake, the support of this initiative requires a prerequisite for both current political institutes and universities: that higher education jointly invests in a broad and prolonged epistemological debate which renews and strengthens the rigor, quality, dignity and prestige of the most diverse areas of scientific or academic knowledge. It is time to move towards a reform of higher education that goes beyond the salientness of a secular Portuguese university tradition of libresco knowledge, persistent since the 18th century, until this tradition has deteriorated in the recent past due to the crackdown of the doors of universities to ideological vices and progressive policies of rupture with the past. Today, it is true that many universities cannot properly value the classical intellectual, philosophical and scientific tradition that made our great Western civilization. If universities have a solid theoretical or abstract tradition, but often in erosion because they disembowel themselves from concrete life, society must recognize that polytechnic institutes have introduced a renewed look at knowledge based on practical knowledge, linked to concrete realities, immediate to the world of companies, institutions, of daily life, but still in search of a certain theoretical or abstract maturity. therefore the enormous importance of the challenge we face today. Finally, some political institutes have also shown that they are strategically to counterbalance territorial inequalities between the large metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto and other peripheral regional areas, whose commitment to the quality of business or social development has become strongly dependent on their political institutes—for example, the districts of Santarém and Leiria are living proof of it. In conclusion, Mr. President and Mr. Members, welcoming all citizens, especially those present today, who have brought this House, the house of democracy and freedom, this bill of free initiative. In the name of the party bench, a very, very, very thank you. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u113	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Tiago Estêvão Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, at the end of this debate, it may be necessary to repeat the obvious: this is not a war between universities and politicians, it is certainly not a strictly regional issue and, much less, it is not a discussion on institutional cosmetics. That is why this national debate on the nature of the system is a fundamental discussion that calls us to the central issue of the system we want and, as such, the discussion that we open today on the designation of institutions and on the degrees administered cannot be done without going to the bottom issue of how we can create a higher education with a more diversified offer. It is very easy to say that we are faced with a simple legislative intervention, but, if so, we would not have to intervene on the Basic Law of the Education System and on the RJIES, and that is why this debate has to be done without fear but, essentially, with requirement. We know that this process will have to be fully deepened. Arrange the offer cannot be put in a single format, develop an institutional strategy cannot be to do the same as others do and value it cannot be to ignore the differences, but to recognize and support the different paths of each institution, because, as needs are different, also territories and missions are diverse. That is why, of course, this is a very important step in allowing us to reopen a fundamental debate on the enhancement of the missions of the different institutions, how to strengthen the two subsystems and how to diversify more Portuguese higher education. And this will be the measure of our success for the work we will do in speciality: the strengthening of our binary system of higher education, because that is what is required of us and that is what is required of a country of science, culture and knowledge. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u115	We therefore conclude the discussion of the third item on the agenda. We move on to the fourth item on the agenda, which consists of the joint assessment of Petition No 216 / XIV / 2. a ( Arlindo Ferreira et al.) — At the end of the vacancies in access to 5. a is 7. the escalation of the teaching career, of the Resolution Projects n. 54 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the elimination of the administrative imposition of vacancies for progression at 5. a is 7. the steps of the teaching career and 56 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Removing obstacles to teacher progression to 5. a is 7. the steps and, in general, of the Bill No. 80 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Revocation of the current access system to 5. a is 7. the escalations of the teaching career, beginning with the change of the Status of the Career of Children Educators and Teachers of Basic and Secondary Education. To present the draft resolution of the PCP, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group the nearly 15 000 subscribers to this petition. Lack of teachers in schools, precariousness, uncertainty as to the future, low wages, limitations and impediments to career progression and their respective re-emergence — who begin to teach today will not reach the top of the career —, time that has been worked by teachers but has not been counted for career progression, having been administratively withdrawn by PS, with the support of the PSD, lack of rejuvenation of the profession, classes with a high number of students, overload of bureaucratic work, among so many other obstacles and difficulties that teachers of the public school face every day in the exercise of their profession. A profound socio-laboral devaluation of the profession, continuously fed by successive governments, from the moment they refuse to solve these problems, and which disrespects teachers who are in public school today, but who also distance young people from this profession, because they have neither stability nor prospects for the future. Problems that the PCP has brought and denounced and for which we have presented solutions, as we have presented solutions to solve the deep injustice created by vacancies in the 5. a is 7. the steps, which means objectively a barrier in career progression for teachers. With the publication of the 2010 Decree-Law, which amended the Statute of the Career of Children Educators and Teachers of Basic and Secondary Teachings, it became mandatory to observe classes and obtain a vacancy in the 5. a is 7. the steps To this add other requirements already foreseen, such as the assessment of qualitative performance not less than 'good' and the frequency, with use, continuous training or specialized training courses. For the CFP, the administrative imposition of vacancies for access to 5. a is 7. the steps are merely an economical mechanism that only serves to hinder progression and prevent most teachers from reaching the upper steps. It creates enormous injustices and, instead of promoting cooperation and inter-help, it promotes competition, being a factor of conflict. More: this retention on the ladder causes much of the time to recover to be consumed without resulting in any positive return to the teacher at the level of career development or any benefit regarding their relative ordination in the graduation lists for progression at 5. o or 7. The steps. Injustice increases if we consider that in autonomous regions, purely and simply, or there are no administrative obstacles, such as in the Azores, or, when they exist, as in Madeira, they have been cancelled with the annual fixing of a number of vacancies equal to the number of candidates for progress. This means that the existence of vacancies for progression for teachers exercising functions on the continent, associated with quotas in the evaluation, becomes clearly an element of destabilization of work in schools and is one of the elements that clearly increases the lack of attractiveness of the teaching profession. The CFP believes that steps must be taken to correct the injustices generated and that a negotiation process with trade union structures should take place quickly with a view to consolidating solutions to the problem raised. With this initiative we propose, among other measures, the elimination of the administrative imposition of vacancies for progression at 5. a is 7. the steps of the teaching career, the opening of a negotiation process with the trade union structures; the fixing of a number of vacancies corresponding to that of candidates on these same steps and that the time of service recovered transits to the step to which it progresses. The appreciation of teachers, and other professionals in education, their careers and wages is essential to defend the free, quality and inclusive public school that our Constitution enshrines. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u117	To present draft resolution No 56 / XV / 1. a ( BE) has the floor to Mrs Joana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I remember that there was, when we had the debate about the recovery of teachers' career time, who said that teachers had a privileged career, because it was an automatic career, a road always unhindered until the top of the career. The proof that this was not true, that it was never true, is the existence of this great obstacle of access to the 5. a is 7. the steps, which is the determination of the number of vacancies. It was one, and only one, of the obstacles that, over the years, was created to prevent teachers, having a right to career, from enjoying it. The problem, in addition to this obstacle and its main motivation, which was to cut costs in teachers' career, is that, when careers were frozen for more than a decade, what happened was that, when thawing off, there were teachers who literally stayed in these steps. at this time, there are teachers who, despite the defrosting of careers, as they were not allowed to recover the time they had behind and have not changed the rules of access to the 4. o is 5. the steps, have years of service that they have already given to be at the top of the career, have been in the system for decades and are arrested in the 6th. o or no 4. the step and are being overcome by younger teachers. I do not want to introduce here the question of performance assessment and how this performance assessment, with its quotas, is wrong for all the public service and how it creates logic within schools that are not logical to promote merit, are logics of promotion of other types of organizational vices that we should not want to promote in our schools, but, in fact, by binding access to the 5. a is 7. the steps to the share of the performance assessment, the system has harmed many teachers who otherwise would have the right, and have the right, to progress in the career. It is absolutely impossible to dissociate this matter from the fact that the lack of teachers is motivated by a successive and systematic devaluation of the teaching career. It is just another stick in the engineering of the appreciation of the teaching career. Therefore, when we say that only the problem of lack of teachers in the public system attracting and valuing the teaching career is solved, we are also talking about the need to review access to 5. a is 7. the steps, so that we can say, not only to teachers who are already in the system, but also to those who will enter the system: "No, you have access to a whole career, without schemes, without artificial obstacles to what your right to career progression would be". That is why we are proposing, once again, to correct this injustice, among so many others that have been done in the teaching career, with disastrous results for the public education system, that the government simply negotiates with the unions the elimination of barriers to access to 5. a is 7. the steps and open the number of vacancies corresponding to the number of teachers who are entitled to evolve to these steps, as happens in the remaining steps of this career. Today, more than ever, we are sure that the appreciation of public school and the future and the survival of public school depend on the appreciation of teachers' career. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[In the meantime, he took the presidency of Vice-President Adam Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u119	It will intervene now, to present Bill No. 80 / XV / 1. a, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the more than 14 000 people who have mobilized to defend teachers and their rights. The current 5 access system. a is 7. career steps are unfair and anachronistic. It is unfair because progress is dependent on obtaining merit assessments which are often artificial, i.e.'very good' and 'excellent' assessments are attributed not to those who deserve these classifications but to those who need this assessment to progress, also limiting those who deserve them and, however, by virtue of quotas, cannot have them. This system does not dignify or credibility the evaluation, nor the evaluated ones themselves, rather than being a 360o evaluation system, which we should consider not only for teaching but also for other public service assessment systems, particularly in SIADAP ( Integrated Performance Management and Evaluation System in Public Administration ). But this system is also anachronistic, since it is the only one in the Public Administration that works in this way, in a horizontal career system. Moreover, this context has been aggravated by the CVID-19, which has reduced the time limits for the observation of classes, and may have prevented these evaluation processes from being in fact overdue, having aggravated the injustices already occurring. The social elevator of career progression cannot stand still nor under the spectrum of these senseless injustices. For this reason, the NAP proposes the repeal of the current access system to the 5. a is 7. the escalations of the teaching career—a proposal is to establish justice— thus accompanying the claim of this professional class, which, despite not having the respect and dignity it deserves, has one of the most noble missions, which is to educate future generations, in which we both place hope for a better world.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u121	I give the floor to Mr Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We share with the petitioners and with the PCP, BE and PAN the end of quotas in access to the 5. a is 7. the steps of the teaching career. It's just that he's got his own reasons. We know that indiscipline and bureaucracy in schools will continue to feed the salary devaluation of teachers due to the erosion of their institutional power and civic and social prestige. When about half of the teachers present signs of psychological suffering and depression, this is a unique socio-professional hecatombe in history. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u123	Responding vigorously to this will be to respect teachers as human beings. This is the principle of valuing the personal and wage dignity of any professional class. [[Congrats from the CH.]] But arriving doesn't feed false expectations. It is not possible to defil the financial sustainability of the teaching career of the inevitable rationalization of extensive and expensive school curricula and schedules. The arrival will always establish honest and frontal relations with the teachers. therefore we appeal directly to teachers not to allow their schools to be industries of social parasitism, subsidiarity, selfishness and aggressiveness. [[All right! Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u124	I use a symptomatic case. Many years ago, schools were invaded by the pedagogy of participatory budgets. There is a certain financial amount to be managed in a manner shared by the students. It is claimed that it is to teach social consciousness, civic responsibility and the principles of participatory democracy, but it is the opposite. Participatory budgets teach children and adolescents who have the right to manage the money that resulted from the effort and work of others,... [[Congrats from the CH.]] ... before these same children and adolescents study and work to then know how to manage the product of their own effort.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u125	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u126	This is called mental subversion of our societies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u127	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u128	Teachers must be aware that they are the main victims, but families are also, because of disastrous mental experiences that children bring from schools. Paradoxical is that the generality of teachers belongs to generations who learned that they first had to study and work and only then had the right to manage the fruit of their own effort. This is how these teachers promoted their self-responsibility and their unquestionable professional and civic merit. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u129	Quotas on access to 5. a is 7. the escalations of the teaching career materialize the humiliation of teachers by socialist power.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u130	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u131	in these and other battles, the arrival will not hesitate to defend the teachers. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u132	I now give the floor to Mr Rui Tavares of the Free House, who has one minute. I ask the honourable Member to contain himself, as much as possible, in his time.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u133	Mr President: Thank you very much, but let me point out that it is strange to ask who has one minute to contain. It won't be my minute that we're going to spend a lot of time at home.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u134	The Free has no rules!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u135	Anyway, what we have to say is very fast and very consistent with what we said before, even if the extreme right does not like it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u136	Oh, the extreme right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u137	The way we do not lose teachers is by treating well the teachers we have, removing as much as possible the obstacles of uncertainty, instability and precariousness in teaching careers, including those represented by these artificial vacancies, these quotas in access to the 5. a is 7. the steps of teachers. They are not the only problem, but they are one of the major problems in encouraging the profession and vocation of teachers. That is why we, in spirit, follow the proposals that petitioners make and, in this Parliament, we will support them in a number of initiatives of the Free. And we will also vote in favour of the proposals put forward by the Left Block, the CFP and the NAP. I took 1 minute and 4 seconds, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u138	All right, Mr. Deputies, it's registered... and it's exalted, too! Exalted, too. Thank you very much. You now have the floor by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Agostinho Santa.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u139	In front of me, there were no rules, but now there are!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u140	Do your job, I'll do mine!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u141	In the last legislature it was also like this with Joacine!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With all appreciation and praise to the citizen initiative, I greet the petitioners, who, more than 14 000, wanted to bring to the Assembly of the Republic the verbalized portrait of their concern and longing. By not giving up the content of the foundation of the petition and accompanying it in its terms, scopes and projection of effects, this debate extends to two draft resolutions, the CFP and the BE, and a draft law of the NAP. We refer, therefore, without specificity, to the four written impulses of discussion which stand in the object and intention: against the imposition of vacancies in access to the 5. a is 7. the steps of the teaching career. We will not be heard to diminish the expectations of teachers, when they fight for such a gratifying and motivating progression as much as possible in the career in which they are performed as professional promoters of a school of values and challenges, they and they, functionalized to the interests of the students. This does not mean that, without more than that, this matter is concerned by itself, as a dogmatic affirmation of its absolute goodness, and is isolated from all the complex in which it is inserted, within the professional path of teachers and the realization of the educational process. The worst thing that could be done would be to embark on the simplistic and populist discourse of not equating any other factor, when we know that there are them and they interpennet in such a way that one cannot forget the global vital mechanism, running to seek miraculous repair of only one piece. That is to say, the subject we are talking about, however unquestionable it may be, cannot be presented to those who exercise legislative, supervisory or executive competence as being disconnected from everything else, waiting for casuistic treatment and not located. Of course, this issue cannot be raised to a conclusive maximum that those who are in the exercise of power or politically support it, by not resolving it in a seated manner, devalues teaching, "indignifies" the profession, which makes it unattractive, and ultimately weakens the school. It begins by recognizing that those who govern education since 2016 have assumed the central objective of guaranteeing the virtuous balance between the demand for the appreciation and stability of the teaching profession and the effectiveness in the management of available resources, not unlimitedly expansive. Over the past six years, fulfilling this principle, much has already been done, having the government determined: the end of the school contract; the extinction of the infamous — I don't know if they remember — PACC (test of knowledge and skills) ; the end of the requalification of teachers; the binding of many thousands of teachers; the mitigation of the mechanism known as the norm-work; the minimization of the effects of freezing on progress; the strengthening of time credit schools; the creation of conditions — stand out! — access to 5. a is 7. the steps and here they are. Here, I would like to ask: then, a government that has been able to determine all this and no longer easily and in a single blow fulminant, with the mechanism of limiting the vacancies in question in this debate? Let us recover this central principle of virtuous balance, which cannot be liquefied by a magic wand that brings immediate contentment. Has the government crystallized in this inevitability, nothing having evolved? Of course not! He faced the problem, always weighing the two terms of the equation: articulating career development expectations with sustainability perspectives, weighing the necessary budget availability. Thus, for a matrix purpose of action, it recovered the spirit of a negotiating agreement established in 2010 between the Ministry of Education and trade union organisations, in which the accepted solution was that of phased progression, reaching 50 % and 33 % the number of vacancies to be opened in each year, respectively, for access to the 5. a is 7. the steps for teachers with performance evaluation « Good», adding to those who, with evaluation of « Very Good» and « Excellent », without limitation of vacancies and automatically, have already progressed. in 2018, the transition from 86, 90 % to 5. the step and of 62, 55 % for the 7. The stairwell. Compliance with these percentages agreed with representative teacher structures has involved the continued and sustained increase in the number of teachers effectively covered, including those who progressed without dependence on vacancy opening, in a percentage ranging from 76% to 87% from 2018 to 2021. the and 7th steps.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u143	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u144	I'm done now, Mr. President. Where is the alleged insensibility of the government? Where is the devaluation of teaching? Where is the "indignification" of the profession? Where's the school fragility? He is certainly not on our side. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u145	For an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Germana Rocha now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u146	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, the more than 14 000 subscribers to this petition, with a word of recognition for the work and resilience of teachers and educators, who continue to wait for solutions to the problems that accumulate over the years, particularly in these seven years of socialist governance, which are circumventing by palliative measures that do not resolve, only add the unadjustable. But the thought that needs to be done is about how we got here. What leads teachers today to leave the profession and young people not to choose the way of teaching? The answer is only one: this is a structural problem that has to be resolved seriously and responsibly, through reforms that the country needs, as bread for the mouth. In fact, as the PSD has long been alerting, but those who are in power continue to "swim to the side". They create working groups or monitoring committees, but reforms of the essential sectors, nor do they see them! Portugal is one of the OECD countries where social inequalities are more pronounced in the school courses of the students. Thousands of students continue to stay behind, due to an inability of timely and effective response by those who govern. The teaching career goes through a real crisis that the government of António Costa did not want to anticipate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u147	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u148	... despite the evidence and warnings that have been made over time. The government has long had data on this subject, but it prefers 'to put the head in the sand' and not present solutions capable of overcoming the crisis installed in various public sectors, in particular in education, with thousands of students without classes, at least one discipline, providing that, from September onwards, it can be 110 000, which will have disastrous consequences in its learnings. Here, it is not possible to understand how PCP, Block of Left and PAN, which present these initiatives, have not been able to record their requirements for the viability of the various State budgets the progress of the teachers we have talked about here. [[Protests of PCP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u149	What a lack of seriousness!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u150	In the specific case, we are talking about constraints created in 2018, in the time of management, and political responsibilities exist to be assumed and not to be taken into account,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u151	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u152	...because it was not to realise that in 2015 even losing the elections, Antonio Costa wanted to rule. [[That's it! All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u153	And for this he was supported by the PS, the PCP, the Left Block and then the PAN, around the « miracle of roses », filling his mouth with the end of austerity!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u154	They're not roses, they're nails!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u155	But seven years ago, no miracle, no bread. Only roses, but roses with the thorns of austerity, injustice, loss of purchasing power and the greatest tax burden there is memory. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u156	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is urgent to bet on a competent and continuing training of teachers. The review of the evaluation system is urgent, so that it will cease to be a mere administrative tourniquet and dignify the mission of teacher and educator, giving priority to the merit rather than the brutal increase in the bureaucracy we have witnessed, which takes quality time for teachers to prepare their classes. These are issues that need to be addressed in a serious, integrated and rigorous way, listening to their representatives and promoting a proper review of the Statute of the Teaching Career. in these years of management everything has turned around, promised everything, but it will see and nothing! As a result of these erratic policies and constant concessions to the radical left, today we have a country in which, contrary to what the left claims, social inequalities are increasingly accentuated. The country needs competence, demand and efficiency in the management and organization of public services, taking advantage of the use of the PRR's funds ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ) in the valorization of its professionals and working conditions, thus promoting quality public services to which they use. As Mr Prime Minister said in his possession, and I quote, 'the absolute majority that has been granted to us does not mean absolute power, on the contrary. The absolute majority corresponds to an absolute responsibility for whom it governs. Do not keep on seeking. ” Therefore, it is more than time to assume their responsibilities and, instead of circumventing, solve, not continuing to leave the Portuguese handed over to their lot. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u157	Mr Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN, to whom I remember having 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u158	Mr. President, I will try to respect time. On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, I think it seems to me that you have an obsession with indiscipline and also with bureaucracy in schools. I remember that speaking in social parasitism or in subsidized dependence when we are referring to children in the educational system, which is essential for the repair of the social elevator, is, at least, absurd. But, honourable Member, we cannot forget that a more humane school, where there is irreverence, where there is also indiscipline, is fundamental...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u159	Is indiscipline fundamental? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u160	...to form citizens who have a plural globalization of what our society is. [[Protests by CH Member Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u161	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u162	I really am concluding, Mr President. If there is anything for our taxes to serve precisely to bet on education. As for the rest, we'll be here. We have introduced this initiative to monitor the appreciation of teachers, but the rights of children are not compatible with this type of intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u163	How many children do you have? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u164	He also has the floor to speak by the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro, which has 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u165	Mr. President, I will try to respect time. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, I even have an obsession with indiscipline and bureaucracy. They are the most serious problems of teaching and you have not seen them for 40 years. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I was a teacher and I was hit by spit in the classroom.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u166	Me too!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u167	It's explained, then!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u168	The gentlemen are sitting here all the time. I've always treated students.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u169	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u170	I will finish, Mr. President. Therefore, I will continue to say this and the honourable Member will excuse me from making such tugs, saying that it is not important. It is absolutely relevant, and this is clear to all Members. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u171	Mrs. Members, let us move on to the fifth point of our agenda, with the appreciation of Petition No 145 / XIV / 2. a ( Célia Cristina Martins dos Santos Freire ) — For the urgent requalification of the IC8, along with Resolution Projects Nos 57 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Requalification of CI8, 68 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends to the Government the requalification of CI8, 70 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Urgent requalification of IC8, 77 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of requalification measures for CI8, 83 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Urgent requalification of IC8 and 86 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government urgently implement the portion of the CI8 between Pombal and Avelar ( Ansion ), including defrosting accesses, and undertakes the cabimentation of the necessary financial resources. Mrs Paula Santos of the PCP Parliamentary Group has the floor to present draft resolution No 57 / XV / 1. a
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u172	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all we wanted to greet the petitioners we discussed about the requalification of the IC8. We would like to accompany the petition with an initiative. We propose the re-qualification of the CI8, ensuring structural intervention throughout its scope which includes, among other things, the change in track profile and profile in order to correspond to the nature of the complementary route, particularly between Pombal and Avelar, allowing regional and national traffic to be diverted out of the localities and greater fluidity in the movement of vehicles in safety ; the construction of acceleration and slowdown strips in the nodes of access to the IC8 where they still do not exist ; and the improvement of the conditions of movement. The IC8 is a channel of communication of extreme importance for access to the Pinhal Interior region and its connection with the coast. However, there are parts of this path that are not the same as a complementary route. There are sections that cross locations, with several level crossings and several closed curves, with lack of lighting, with floor degradation, with lack of acceleration and deceleration bands, facts that have caused numerous accidents and clashes, often with fatal victims. Given the high road fatality and traffic of heavy vehicles, intervention is necessary to ensure road safety. It is not understood that a structural route in regional and national mobility has not yet been re-qualified throughout its scope. The re-qualification between Pombal and Avelar was planned under the sub-concession of Pinhal Interior, and was later withdrawn by the PSD/CDS government, undermining the expectation created by the population and also demonstrating that public-private partnerships are not a solution. However, the PS government included in the 2030 National Investment Programme ( PNI ) the construction of unleveld access to the CI8 at the Camporês Business Park in Ansion, and the realization of an intervention in the section between White Houses and Pombal. However, these two interventions do not solve the serious problems existing in the CI8, which shows the absence of a comprehensive plan of intervention that gives them an answer. The fact is that successive governments delayed the re-qualification of the CI8, when carrying out this investment would have prevented the occurrence of tragic accidents and could have saved many people's lives. We therefore believe that structural intervention is necessary in this way, with the change in the path and profile, particularly between Avelar and Pombal, which diverts the regional and national traffic out of the localities, particularly heavy, thus enabling greater road safety and greater fluidity in the movement of vehicles. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u173	Mr Filipe Melo has the floor for the parliamentary group of arriving to present draft resolution No 68 / XV / 1. a
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me - let me make a small approach in response, once again, to what Mr Rui Tavares said, referring again to the arrival as 'extreme-right'. Mr President, I am going to tell you once again: we have our very well-defined ideology and we will never be a papola lost in the middle of 120 roses. Never, Mr. Deputies. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u175	The papillas reproduce very much, soon become thousands. There's never only one left!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u176	With regard to what brings us here, this issue of CI8 is very old, very sad and has a common denominator, which is the Socialist Party. It is enough to recall that in 2006 the Socialist Minister Mário Lino inaugurated, with a pump and circumstance, the portion of the CI8 between the Louiçal and the node of A1 in Pombal, and claimed to be a great example for the country. A few days later, the President of the Town Hall of Pombal said that this was a 1993 project and therefore a socialist promise with 13 years' delay. In 2021, again in a socialist government, a draft resolution was adopted in this House recommending the urgent implementation of the re-qualification of the IC8 between Pombal and Avelar. So far nothing has been done. The misfortunes continue, with many deaths, many serious injuries, many accidents, many destroyed families. All responsibility of the Socialist Party. Otherwise, let's see, sirs. Members : « Part of the IC8 »; « Deaths in the IC8 »; « Impact between truck and light in the IC8 causes death»; « Destructions resulting from the IC8 ». The speaker displayed documents with the news titles he referred to. Much more to show. This is the responsibility that the Socialist Party has to assume before the Portuguese for the non-requalification of the CI8. [[Congrats from the CH.]] So far, nothing has been done and we are again discussing such an old and pressing topic. I remember, Mrs. Members, that the realisation of this requalification is urgent for the promotion of road safety, as well as for the improvement of the smooth movement throughout the route, as requested in the public petition signed by nearly 5000 citizens. There is an urgent need to re-qualify this CI ( supplementary route ). Having said that, the Commission recommends that the Government carry out this requalification, ensuring structural intervention throughout its scope. The improvement and optimization of road lighting are also necessary. We also recommend improving the conditions of circulation, mainly in terms of vertical signaling, fixed signaling pins, acceleration and deceleration ranges, floor, among many others. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members :I conclude by saying that it is our understanding that the Government should guarantee the necessary financial resources for this requalification, including Community funds from the RPP and without prejudice to funding through the State budget. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u177	You now have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, to present draft resolution No 70 / XV / 1. a
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I would like to greet the petitioners for bringing about such an important issue and for so long ago in their resolution. There is no territorial cohesion without transport and their infrastructure. If in Portugal it can be said that excesses were committed in the construction of motorways, which, to a large extent, benefited national banks and builders, these excesses did not solve problems of connection and transport, essential for the country. They did not solve them because many of these highways, which were promised without tolls, are now paid, harming the mobility of those who live inside, but also because we continue with a problem of lack of quality of alternative or complementary sections that are essential to territorial cohesion. This is the case with the IC8, which makes the link between the coast and the Interior Pinhal. This is a usual route for light vehicles, but also for heavy vehicles, which transport wood to the industries in the region. It is an accidental route, which has caused several accidents, various congestions and which does not favor transport, either by passengers or by goods. The history of this recommendation has already been told here. It has already been said several times how recommendations were presented to the Government, how this project was to be included and carried out in the time of the PSD and CDS government — that was not so! — and how the PS Government has not solved the problem either. We have recommended that the Government should finally rebuild and requalify the CI8 for economic reasons, for reasons of territorial cohesion, but also for reasons of road safety. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u179	To intervene and present draft resolution No 77 / XV / 1. Mrs Cláudia Avelar Santos, of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I welcome the subscribers of the petition, thanking you for your contribution. The Socialist Party presented a draft resolution recommending to the Government the adoption of requalification measures of the IC8, the complementary linkage route between the Figueira da Foz, by the IC1, Castelo Branco, by the IP2, and Vila Velha de Rodão, through Pombal, Ansião, Figueiró dos Vinhos, Pedrogão Grande, Sertan e Proença-a-Nova. It is a route with an orientation, predominantly, West-East, that crosses almost all the interior of the country, with particular importance for the area of Pinhal Interior, in the district of Leiria. The infrastructure of Portugal has contracted a provision of road safety inspection services for the CI8, between the nodes with the CI2 and A23, which is being implemented by external entities in order to determine the conditions of traffic and road safety and the need for interventions to improve them so that proposals for solving the problems identified can be submitted. It is expected that this study will still be completed during the first half of 2022, and at that time it will be possible to have a clear understanding of the type of interventions to be carried out and of the investment needed so that a decision can be taken on its programming. With regard to the access of the Camporês Business Park to the IC8, in Ansion, its reformulation, provided for in the National Investment Programme 2030 and the Valuation Program of the Business Areas, was integrated into the Recovery and Resilience Plan. Entrepreneurship that aims to create a levelled access at the current intersection, creating a more efficient and secure connection to the Business Park, is currently in preparation of the implementation project, providing for the announcement of the competition for the work still during this year of 2022. However, the requalification of this complementary itinerary between Avelar and Pombal is not yet completed. In this way, they circulate every day in pendulum movements, thousands of workers from various sectors, including trade, civil construction, education and health. It also circulates a large number of emergency and emergency medical vehicles. In addition, there is also a high traffic of heavy vehicles, including the transport of timber from the various municipalities of Pinhal Interior to the cellulose factories of the beach of Lerosa and Vila Velha de Rhodão, as well as to the port of Figueira da Foz. We must not forget that this is a strategic route for our country, through direct connection between Portugal and Spain, assuming decisive importance in an intermodality logic with the connection to the port of Figueira da Foz and the logistics platform, as well as its connection to the motorways A1, A13, A23 and A17, with connection to A8. The alternative in rail transport does not exist. This route is of unique importance for companies in the region, particularly those located in Pinhal Interior, Leiria district. It should be noted that there are several sections of the CI8 that cannot be considered as complementary itineraries. Among these, stands out the IC8 trace from Avelar to Pombal, whose requalification is urgent in order to promote road safety and improve the fluidity of the movement of people and goods. There is a lack of slope and areas of overrun, the flooring is not adequate and this section is accessible to all types of vehicles, including agricultural vehicles and motorcycles. There are speed limitations of 50 km/h and many crossings that cross the road, which has caused an increase in road sinequality with several fatal victims over the past few years. In addition, this is a route with high road fatality and high traffic of heavy goods and passengers vehicles, which requires an intervention guaranteeing the safety of people and goods. They add the lack of lighting, the degradation of the floor and the lack of acceleration and deceleration tracks, particularly in the access knots in the section between Sertã and Proença-a-Nova. It is recalled that the requalification of the section between Pombal and Avelar came to be envisaged under the sub-concession of Pinhal Interior, and was subsequently withdrawn by the PSD / CDS government. The PS government — and very well! — included in the National Investment Programme 2030 the construction of access to the CI8, at the Camporês Business Park, and the realization of an intervention in the White Houses section, in A17, in Pombal. Being very important works for the region, these interventions do not solve the problems identified by the local population and companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u181	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u182	I will finish, Mr. President. In view of the above, it is imperative that this structural way of regional and national mobility be re-qualified throughout its extension. This investment is crucial in the context of the promotion of territorial cohesion and the fight against desertification in the interior of these regions, which have been claimed for many years. The requalification of this neural pathway to Pinhal Interior, in addition to a vital importance to the region, assumes a truly national importance, in an investment and fixation perspective, so important for the future of this region and the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u183	You now have the word, to intervene and present the Resolution Project No 83 / XV / 1. a, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the more than 4000 petitioners who brought to Parliament the discussion of this issue, which, given the history of disasters, justifies an urgent re-qualification of the IC8. The lesson we should draw from the data on road sinality of the last decade is that Portugal, along with other countries, must make serious and unprecedented efforts to achieve the 50 % target of reduction of deaths and injuries in traffic, targeted at the United Nations Decade of Action for Road Safety. In the case of IC8, we clearly continue to fail. We have already mentioned the various deficiencies in this section and the volume of daily movements that the same process takes place, but we cannot forget that there are several sections in the CI8 that do not have the characteristics proper to what should be understood by a complementary route. These sections not only cross different locations, subject to different speed limits, including 50 km/h, as well as are guided by steep slopes or curves, characteristics that have led to the existence of high sinequality, deadly atropelements, or even fractures and wounds that lead to people being in serious condition. The successive de-investment has also been mentioned by different governments, either the PSD / CDS or the Socialist Party itself. The complaints that come to us from the users affect several aspects that have to do with inadequate lighting, or even absence, with the state of preservation of the floor and with the degradation, or even absence, of acceleration and deceleration bands that facilitate safe entry and exit into the IC8, especially in the access nodes between Sertan and Proença-a-Nova. If, on the one hand, the re-qualification between Pombal and Avelar, in a 27 km extension, has been expected to be postponed, within the framework of the sub-concession of Pinhal Interior, at the time of the PSD / CDS government, on the other hand we cannot forget that, contrary to what the PS Member mentioned, what is foreseen in the National Investment Plan 2030 is only the construction of a levelled access to the Camporês Business Park in Ansião, and an intervention in the White Houses section. In other words, there is a missed opportunity in the National Investment Programme 2030 of the problems of the CI8 to be fully solved.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u185	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u186	I really am concluding, Mr President. That is why the NAP presents this draft resolution, obviously waiting for the Government to come, above all, to implement and resolve these problems of the IC8.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u187	To intervene and present draft resolution No 86 / XV / 1. Mr João Marques, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Greetings and compliance on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, all petitioners, in the person of Dr. Célia Freire, the first subscriber to this important initiative. The IC8 is a road route that crosss across the national territory, connecting Portugal to Spain, assuming an intermodality logic with the port of Figueira da Foz and connecting to the railway lines of the North, the West and the Beers and also to the motorways A1, A13, A23 and A17, with connection to A8. It is considered the main structural route of Pinhal Interior, being easy to guess the economic importance that the IC8 has for the central region of Portugal and, in particular, for the sub-region of Pinhal Interior, since it is for this CI that the transport of wood is made to the cellulose factories and the port of Figueira da Foz, for export. It will be one of the few CIs that has remained unfinished for tens of years. The first piece of the IC8, inaugurated in 1991 by Cavaco Silva, was the Avelar-Pedrogão Grande. Now, at the moment, only the piece between Avelar and Pombal is about to be built and the national road 237, baptized of IC8, has nothing of IC, because its technical and structural characteristics only fit to serve locally the villages of the Councils of Ansião and Pombal. Without Bermas, without us unattended, particularly in the Camporês Business Park, without bands of acceleration and deceleration, without lighting, with poor signs, but with high road traffic, especially heavy vehicles, is considered by the National Road Safety Authority as being at high risk, because in recent years there have been numerous accidents, causing dozens of deaths and injuries. For these reasons and also because of solidarity with that region, which is recognised as one of the most difficult to develop socio-economically, it seems to us that it is urgent to build this section of the IC8, leaving the current national road237 for local and municipal transit, in its entirety or in part. This work, in fact, came to be included in the public-private partnership that remained with the granting of Pinhal Interior, but, for widely known reasons, which have to do with the impositions of the troika, was withdrawn. So far, it has not been included in the 2030 NIP, except with regard to the delevelment of access to the Camporês Business Park, which will in fact be financed by the PRR. But, Mrs Cláudia Avelar Santos, do not come with the old story, which has spread through the region, that it is the fault of Passos Coelho or the PSD/CDS government that did not contemplate the roads with Community funds or that have withdrawn this work from the concession. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we know how difficult it was to avoid bankruptcy and to mobilize all means and resources to do so. According to : this section of the IC8 serves several industrial parks—in Avelar, in the Campores, council of Ansião, and in Pombal, in the Formiga, in the Manuel da Mota and in Abiul, at least— therefore the argument of the impossibility of candidacy falls to the ground, because the PRR or PT2020 ( Portugal 2020 ) envisage the financing of roads for access to industrial parks. Thirdly, after stabilized the economy and public finances, with the reduction of the deficit and interest in public debt — thanks to the PSD government and Mr. Mario Draghi, a « saint» who put the BCP to buy sovereign debt, public debt from the Member States — there was a budgetary break for this and other investments. In the case of Portugal, it meant savings above EUR 3 billion per year—almost another PRR, almost another PT2020—which could have been applied in public investment, creating wealth and more territorial cohesion. Unfortunately, none of this has happened and the IC8, particularly this piece between Avelar and Pombal, is a complete proof of it. Keep waiting for the good will of the government! However, fatal accidents continue in this authentic road cemetery and the region waits and despairs for better conditions for its economic and social growth, for the need to close the depopulation to which it has been subjected in recent, long, decades. It would have had this region more voters, more votes, and we would have seen the government throw hands to work, build this piece of the IC8, which is structural and vital for the Pinhal Interior region and, Mr. Members, also for Portugal. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no reason that the people of that region can accept it in order not to carry out this work. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u189	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u190	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2019, which is the last year for which we have data, the National Road Safety Authority has listed 35,700 accidents, which have caused 626 fatalities. Now, the only acceptable number of deaths on the roads in Portugal must be zero and that is where we must walk. The IC8 is certainly a structural route in the Pinhal Interior region, but at the moment it does not have a track record in structural conditions and, therefore, we follow the petitions and initiatives of other parties tending to requalify it. In the remaining seconds, I will be grateful for the mention made to me by the group sitting on the far right, which has chosen a European political family sitting on the far right of the European Parliament and which, according to the majority of politicians, is extremely right.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u191	Is that an IC8? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u192	We already knew they had a problem with the nails, we found out today they had a problem with the papillas. And I understand this problem, because papillas are vibrant flowers, gallards, do not ask permission to be born and reproduce very quickly.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u193	Sir, I am very sorry, but you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u194	I will conclude, Mr President, by asking the extreme right-wing group to ask Mr Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro — who has proved to be obsessed with indiscipline — because his colleagues in the parliamentary group are always the first, even before others take the floor, to indiscipline themselves, to interrupt others, before any mention is made.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u195	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u196	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u197	I conclude: perhaps this reveals some political insecurity, they may think that one day there may be more papillaries than Members of the far right in this Parliament. [[Protests by members of the CH Filipe Melo and Pedro dos Santos Frazão.]] It can happen, just like it happened to your party. [[Congrats from PS MP Alexandra Leitão.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u198	You have the floor to speak to Mr Pedro Pinto for the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u199	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, an issue as important as IC8 was — almost — blinded by Mr Freeman's papolas. Discipline? Oh, my God! That is what we want, and that is precisely what you do not have, because you systematically duplicate the time you have right. [[Congrats from the CH.]] He's got 1 minute and he always uses, or almost always, 2 minutes. More: in the last legislature, in which there was a Member of your party—I don't know if you remember, but Joacine Katar Moreira who was elected by the Free! - I didn't see you so worried about time. I didn't see him with that obsession over time. [[L. Protests.]] We know what it's like to use only one minute. We know! You did not feel that in the skin, but the former Freeman assisted. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u200	These words were really important for the debate! They've added a lot!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u201	Mrs. Mariana Mortagua, do you want to use the word?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u202	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u203	No more entries are being made, so this debate is closed. The Secretary of the Bureau of Mary for Rosinha Light has very relevant information to give Parliament, so I now give you the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u204	Mr President, let me tell the plenary that Mr. Members Rita Matias, from the Arrival, Joaquim Sarmento, from the PSD, and Ana Bernardo, from the Socialist Party, attended the work by videoconferencing, because they found themselves in prophylactic isolation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-23.u205	I wish our colleagues rapid improvements and good restoration. Mrs. Members, the next plenary meeting will be held tomorrow for 10 hours, and the agenda item is, in the first item, the general assessment of Bills Nos 103 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Ensures the independence of regulatory entities ( fourth amendment to the regulatory framework law approved in Annex to Law No 67 / 2013 of 28 August ), 112 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Rules the procedure for the dissolution of the Board of Directors of the regulatory entities and for the individual removal of their members, on the basis of justified grounds and 121 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Amend the model for the appointment of the Governing Councils of Regulatory Entities in order to ensure greater transparency and respect for gender equality by amending the framework law of regulatory entities. In the second point, we will appreciate Bill No 12 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU) 2019 / 884 as regards the exchange of information on third-country nationals. The third point is from the discussion of Petition No 97 / XIV / 1. a ( Paulo Alexandre Esteves Borges et al.) — Recognition of the intrinsic rights of nature and of all living beings, together with Bill No 105 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — The sixth amendment of the Environmental Impact Assessment Legal Regime, approved by Decree-Law No 151 - B / 2013 of 31 October and the Resolutions 75 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Update of the list of species at risk and in the pathways of extinction and National Register of Classified Natural Values, 81 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Protect protected areas and 82 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government issue a new dispatch of the time limits for compensation for damage to animals caused by the lobe-bieric and awareness-raising for the adoption of preventive measures to avoid wolf attacks. At the fourth point, we will have the assessment of Petition No 223 / XIV / 2. a ( Association of Children's Education Professionals ) — Inclusion of 0 - 3 years in the education system - Amendment of the Basic Law of the Education System, together with the Lein.o 75 / XV / 1 Projects. a ( BE ) — Create the public daycare network program, 101 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — New legal regime for teaching and organizing the discipline and curriculum area of citizenship and development (CD) in basic and secondary schools, 104 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — It creates an education system for childhood that guarantees the inclusion of children from 0 to 3 years in the educational system, amending the Basics Law of the Educational System, approved by Law No 46 / 86 of 14 October, 120 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — proposes the creation of a public network of day care centres as a way to guarantee the rights of children and 129 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Amendment to Law No 46 / 86 of 14 October, in its current wording, which approves the Basics Law of the Educational System - inclusion of education in the first childhood in the education system and creation of a public education network in the first childhood, and with Resolution Projects No 72 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends that the Government amend the designation of the Ministry of Education to the Ministry of Education and 79 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government create a mechanism for the participation of registration and frequency costs for children entering private establishment due to the absence of public supply and initiate the process of setting up a public day care network. from the fifth point of view, there are regiment votes. All of you and all of you. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau wishes to continue in the afternoon. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 58 minutes.]]
