ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning, we are in a position to begin our work. The session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 3 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the galleries to the public. I ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very good day to all and to all. I will announce that they have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, the Lein Projects 85 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which goes down to 1. the Commission, 91 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which goes down to 3. the Commission, 92 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which goes down to 1. the Commission, 93 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which goes down to 8. the Commission, 94 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which goes down to 1. the Commission, 95 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which goes down to 1. the Commission, in connection with 9. the Commission, and 96 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which goes down to 1. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a position to start the work. I remember the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have three points on the agenda: firstly, we shall proceed to the debate of the lawyers held by the various parliamentary groups or single Members; then we shall follow the votes of the rules given; and, finally, we shall continue the discussion of the State budget on the matter. As this sitting has a vote, the quorum checks are carried out during the voting period. When checking the quorum, the Bureau will be pleased to register the ladies and gentlemen. Members who are not able to do so - electronically, but cannot register Members who only appear after the time of the vote. It is very important to keep this in mind. We already have the government with us and therefore we can start the debate period on the rules of law. The first registrar is Mr Pedro Anastácio, of the PS, to intervene on the appeal requested by his parliamentary group of the proposal for an addendum to Article 231. o -A ( Amendment to Law No 70 / 2021 of 4 November ). You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the context of the pandemic, it was necessary to mobilise a set of urgent measures, with a view to protecting Portuguese families, in terms of credit for permanent housing, and national companies, to ensure the strengthening of their cash and liquidity, mitigating the effects of reducing economic activity. in this context, it was approved the creation of a moratorium that provided for the prohibition of the revocation of the lines of credit contracted, the extension of the suspension of credits, ensuring the continuity of financing to companies and preventing possible non-compliance with the reduction of economic activity, fundamental measures so that the Portuguese economy could overcome the enormous proof to which it was subject. In turn, through Law No 70 / 2021, an exemption from seal tax was provided on the restructuring or refinancing operations of the moratorium credit. As a result of a well-oriented and clear path, it was possible to have the reality that the data of the first quarter of 2022 show us: we accelerated and we were the country with the greatest economic growth in the European Union. This proposal is thus a clarification of the period of application of this exemption — an exceptional and transitional measure with which the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group and the Government demonstrate that there are still companies recovering from the effects of the pandemic. It is also a measure that is a watermark of the contribution we make to this State budget and to support the adventure of exporting companies, which is an example of the exemption of seal tax on export credit insurance, as well as this measure. These are the measures that allow us to continue on the right path. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u5	For the same purpose, I now give the floor to Mr Ivan Gonçalves of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, the right to parliament, in particular the Liberal Initiative, insists on trying to create noise and a series of alternative facts concerning this budget and the taxes charged in Portugal. It is that, despite the pressure that has been put on the public accounts by more than two years of pandemic crisis and all the effort that the Portuguese State has made to leave no one behind, despite the fact that we are going through a war in Europe and a global crisis of not fully known dimensions, the policy followed by the Government of the Socialist Party has even been that of protecting the income of families and tax degradation, especially in the context of IRS (tax on the income of natural persons). Those who have the lowest incomes and the middle class know well what we're talking about. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, is it or is it not true that seven consecutive years the minimum wage has been increased and that today it is greater by more than 40 % than what it was seven years ago? Oh, my God! Is it or is it not true that since 2015 the average wage in Portugal has risen more than 20 %? Oh, my God! Is it or is it not true that pensions go up, year after year, contrary to what the right did when it had to manage the country during the previous crisis? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Is it or is it not true that this budget increases the minimum of existence, making more than 170,000 aggregates with lower incomes no longer pay IRS? Oh, my God! Is it or is it not true that this Budget supports families, increasing deductions from the second child, up to €900? Oh, my God! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u7	E, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, is it true that the reform of the IRS, which the Government of the Socialist Party has been carrying out, allows for an annual saving of around EUR 500 million to Portuguese families and reduces taxes paid by about 1, 5 million family aggregates? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] You still have another merit, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. It is that, by increasing the number of IRS steps, from now on to now nine, making IRS a more progressive tax. More progressively, it is a fairer tax, contrary to what you defend, which is the opposite of what the Socialist Party will do, because what it will not do is lower taxes, especially those with the highest income. Therefore, that there is no doubt: this Budget is a Budget which, despite the constraints and the time in which we live, protects the incomes of families, reduces taxes charged to families, guarantees a fairer taxation and helps to reduce inequalities, contrary to what you wanted, which was to increase inequalities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[What's the lawyer?]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u8	To present rules avoked by the PSD, I begin by giving the floor to Mrs Marcia Passos of that parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u9	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, we return to the lease, because the fact that you now, in 2022, finish the transition process to the new regime does not mean exactly that you will clear your renter, it means only one thing — and that is what I think the government is here with some disorientation — that is to try again to move to the new regime and, in the absence of agreement, this contract will last for another five years, i.e. until 2027. The government is trying to suspend a deadline that will only end in 2027. Are you already demonstrating inability to solve housing problems by 2027? Is this what's happening? On the other hand, tenants who are 65 years old or older, or who have a disability of 60 % or more, and who have income parks also have the possibility to pay a lower income for 10 years, a period which the Government wants to suspend with Article 206. But you don't have to suspend! It is that these low incomes assume that after 10 years, the State allocates the income allowance to these tenants so that they continue to pay less. So that's it, Secretary of State, what is the government saying? That you don't want to pay the support or income allowance to renters? Is that how the PS is a friend of the lodgers? It's not! It is not, because you do not want to assign houses to them; it is not, because you do not want to support income subsidies; it is not, because you do not want to solve the problems of housing in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u10	Mr Nuno Carvalho of the PSD now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u11	I congratulate you, Mr President, as well as the honourable Members. Members of the Government and the Members of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen. « Free of charge of day care» were the words used by Mr. Prime Minister, when he was sitting on the government bench, trying to convince the CFP to approve the State budget. These were words that he repeated during the campaign and, in practical terms, this general gratuity meant that most, or a large set of families, could access this measure and would not be the majority, or a large set of families, which would be excluded from this measure. It is very likely that most, or a large part, of the Members sitting here had not achieved these seats and that those votes had not been given to the Socialist Party. Therefore, the minimum requirement is that they can fulfill an election promise. In practice, if you do not approve this proposal, you will be failing and will be voting against what the PS is defending and against what the PS has told the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u12	I now give the floor to Mr Alexandre Simões of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u13	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, after yesterday's lesson in this plenary on updating the steps of the IRS, today we advocate this proposal, because it is at stake a question of justice and truth. Yesterday Mr. Secretary of State objected to the PSD proposal, invoking that, due to undeployment, there can be no upgrade of steps. Nothing more wrong! In fact, what the Government here wants is to distract the Portuguese from the perhaps most serious aspect of this budget, which is a brutal increase in IRS. Otherwise, let us see: with an inflation that may reach 8 % and an increase in wages per worker of 3 %, we will see a huge loss in the purchasing power of Portuguese families. What does the government prepare to do, sub-repetically? To penalize this virtual increase in incomes, enough not to update the steps of the IRS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u14	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u15	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the choice we have to make is very simple: either there is an update of the IRS steps at the rate of inflation or there is an increase in the tax burden. Bridge! It is this increase in taxes that the PSD proposal seeks to avoid. It is up to us today, all of us, and in particular to the PS, to decide. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u16	Mr Alexandre Poço, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u17	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, let us not let the compressor roll of this majority harm all those who want to buy their first house. The Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party advocates this measure, because it believes that the PS owes differential treatment to all those who kill themselves working, to all those who kill themselves saving to get an entrance to buy a house. It is in this sense that it is of the most fundamental justice that a tax relief can be guaranteed, an exemption for those who are often at the beginning of life and who want only to be able to emancipate themselves, but also for all those who feel the difficulties of the real estate market and for whom, to the difficulties of rising housing prices, is added a tax that consumes thousands of euros to families. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are still in time to correct this injustice, to ensure a differentiated treatment and to save many families thousands of euros in a tax which, as has already been characterized, remains the stupidest in the world. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u18	To speak on this subject, she asked the Secretary of State for Housing, Marina Gonçalves. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u19	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we went back to yesterday's lease, and I would like to point out the great difference and what separates us in terms of rent. Speaking here about the two interventions, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, sometimes we should look at history and remember it: a basic law of housing that was approved with the vote against the PSD; the protection of the home of the family, that the PSD so much wanted not to occur — the home of the family, such a permanent home that you so much want to protect! ; the changes we made to the urban lease, which the PSD so criticized and opposed. [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, what we have done in these amendments has been to look precisely at what is supposedly your concern, but it is never present at the time of voting and presenting proposals that are effectively for all. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Marcia Passos, we effectively differed in the way of looking at the NRAU (New Urban Rent Scheme) and this rule. He said that yesterday and I would point out again: we are not looking at just one side of the relationship, but at both sides, and that is why we want to solve the problem, worrying and safeguarding that the State responds to the two sides. We do not think that the market, operating without this regulation, or concern, with both sides, will work and solve housing problems. That is why we want to do something with data, which is objective, knowing how many families are, and without unprotecting both parts. Our proposal is not against one of the parties, it is a proposal that aims precisely at balance. Ask the gentlemen and the tenants, who will tell you that the solution should be now and that we should not suspend it. But I ask you if it is not best to find a solution that will safeguard the effective implementation of the income allowance and at the same time safeguard the stability of housing solutions. Mr Alexandre Poço, with regard to the purchase of a house — and I am not going to spend much time on the answer, nor referring to the Government's option for the treatment of families for the same — and as Mr Poço made, and very well, an assessment of the living conditions of our young people and the middle class — a well thought-out of the reality of our country about the fact that they are not all able to buy a house, it is strange that, in the end, he presents as a solution to giving a set of benefits only to those who can buy a house. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The question here, Mr President, is that we think that the rental policy is a response to everyone; the policies and measures to buy from home leave out many people who unfortunately do not have the capacity to buy. And that's why we think the structural measure is that of the lease. [[CH protests.]] But, Mr President, yesterday we were told, and today we can repeat: instead of talking here again about the subject, talk to your mayors! They prepare these proposals and present them so that they can give these benefits at the municipal headquarters. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u20	To speak on the same subject, you now have the floor of Mrs Marcia Passos, of the PSD, to whom I call attention for the time available.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u21	Mr President, Secretary of State, they are not helping anyone, they are delaying the time when the State should allocate income subsidies to tenants! [[PSD applause.]] And now, if you are friends of tenants, update the Housing Portal, which is done with 2012 simulations, when the law has already changed four times. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u22	Let us now move on to the debate on the rules advocated by the Parliamentary Group of the European Union. For the first intervention, Mr Pedro Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the norm we are advocating for this debate today is that of VAT (tax on added value) of the Tauromachy, for a very simple reason: here we are the only party that without fear, without complex, without prejudice, supports bullomachia and hunting. We're not afraid of that, we're not afraid to say! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Tauromachy is an integral part of Portuguese culture and lives on both cultural and fiscal discrimination. Having the bullfighting with 23 % VAT makes no sense when all the arts have 6 %. That is why we appeal to the Members of the Socialist Party. We know that Mrs PAN is as though she were in the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u24	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u25	But I look around and see that there are some amateurs here. And besides the amateurs, there are many who respect the art that is Tauromachy. Therefore, the appeal is simple: they vote in favour of this proposal from the Arrival. Of course, Mrs Vera Braz would like to arrive at the parties of Azambuja next weekend and say that she supported a measure in favour of bull machia. Or Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha would like to arrive at Vila Franca de Xira, to the Incarnate Collection, and say « I supported a proposal for bullfighting». Or Mr. Pedro do Carmo, when he arrives at the festivals of Barrancos. Or even Mr Nelson Brito — who I do not see here now, but who yesterday was so concerned with serious politicians — be serious and vote in favour of the Tauromacy, when it comes to the parties of Messejan on 15 August. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Therefore, the appeal I make is: let go of the bands of the NAP extremism and vote in favour of this proposal from the Arrival. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS protests and CH counterprotests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u26	In order to intervene on this issue, and therefore makes sense that it is already, Mrs Inês Sousa Real, of the NAP, is registered. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u27	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Continuation of PS protests and CH counterprotests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, wait a minute. I ask the House to listen to Mrs Inês Sousa Real with the silence she deserves. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u29	Mr President, Mr Pedro Pinto, first of all, I cannot fail to say that if we have sensitivity and respect for animal life, then we are extremists with great pleasure and serve us perfectly. [[Protests of CH Deputies.]] What we are very surprised at is that they come to this House asking that, with the taxes of the Portuguese, if they are to simplify and relieve the tax burden for the Tauromachic activity, when we should be discussing, for example — and the NAP has invoked this same standard — the reduction of VAT for medical and veterinary services. What you come to tell us is that someone who has the activity of mistreating, abusing, grossly raping an animal,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u30	It's called culture!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u31	...in violation of the values of the twenty-first century, in which we cannot be indifferent to animal suffering, deserves more concern than the steps of the IRS, the effective relief of families or, in contrast, the relief of those who have a mission to save lives, and we have not heard the honourable Member speak on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u32	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u33	More: Mr. Deputy spoke at the Taurine parties. I recall that, still this week, a young man died tragically and lamentably on a trip, and the State has a duty to intervene, also from a fiscal point of view, removing children and young people from the violence of bullomachia and refraining from encouraging by means of taxation, thus fulfilling the recommendations of the United Nations ( United Nations ). This is a civilizational issue. As you defend the values of the New State,... [[CH protests.]] ... it's normal you don't understand that, because the bullies have been breathed into our country precisely by the hands of the New State. But the values of the 21st century are not those, and that is why not only VAT for Tauromachic activities has risen, as Portugal will certainly take a path that will lead us to the abolition of the Tauromachia.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u34	Don't say shit!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u35	To speak on the same subject, as long as your parliamentary group permits it, Mr Pedro Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since you like animals so much, I wanted to tell you that it reminds me of dolphins : get out of the water, get up here, make a pineapple and get back into the water. That's what the honourable Member reminds me of. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I do not really know if you were thinking about vegan yogurts, which then mixes with raspberries and blueberries... I do not know if that was what I was thinking, but I will tell you frankly: speaking in the New State, when the party that represents has 50 times in its programme words such as « ban», « stop» and « abolish», then we are treated. This is where you see anyone who wants to impose dictatorships on other parties and Portuguese. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u37	Is this a parliamentary leader? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u38	Certainly, you have received Mr Eurico Brillante Dias' sheet with the definition of 'hypocrit' and not lead me to harm, but you are hypocritical. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Catarina Martins.]] You know why? I'll explain. I've never heard her talk in this house when a cop is killed at the door of a disco! I've never heard her talk when she dies a football addict at the parties of a national championship. I didn't hear her talk about it! You're a hypocrite! It's over! There's no other story! There's one thing you won't be able to do in this House: abolish the bullfighting! That'll never make it! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u39	in a definitive proof that democracy is a dialogic regime, Mrs Inês Sousa Real has the floor, who asked to intervene again on this subject.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u40	Mr. President, I have asked to intervene to defend the honour.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u41	Of course! [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u42	Madam Member, if I remember the Rules of Procedure, you will have to do so at the end, since that is what is planned for the only Members. So Mrs Fá-CL will do it at the end.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u43	Mr President, I am sorry, but the Rules of Procedure provide for the defence of honour to be made on behalf of the parliamentary group or on behalf of individuals. The honourable Member has called me a hypocrite, and I therefore ask for the floor to defend honor. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u44	I understand, Mrs Deputy, but I believe that what the Rules of Procedure establish is that, being the defense of the honor of the bench, it is done immediately and, being the defense of individual honour, it is done at the end of the debate. But if you give us one minute, we confirm. [[Pause.]] My interpretation is confirmed, so I will give the floor to the honourable Member in due course. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares also signed up to use the floor. I wonder if it's for an intervention...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u45	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings, if I may.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u46	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u47	Mr President, I understand that sometimes there are interventions that are most important for us not to listen to and that therefore our brain can be shut down. This is human, it is rational and I understand it. But the personal insult should not be allowed in the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u48	This isn't Venezuela! This is democracy!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u49	Therefore, realizing that Mr President may not have listened, I invite the Bureau to listen to the previous speaker's speech, to see whether the terms used may or may not be given in this Parliament,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u50	This isn't Venezuela!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u51	...because I believe that the personal insult should not be allowed in this House. [[Congratulations on BE, PS and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u52	They're confused when Ventura isn't here!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u53	Mr Eurico Brillante Dias also spoke for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u54	Mr President, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group endorses the last intervention by the leader of the Left Block Bank, stressing that once again we will realize that one of our colleagues in this Chamber has indeed been insulted. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u55	Thank you very much for the comments made on the appeal. In fact, I did not realize it, but I could not follow the speech of the honourable Member because there are problems of speech or of the acoustic conditions of the House, or of my own hearing. [[PS, PCP and BE rice.]] I shall therefore use the faculty which the Rules of Procedure allow me, and I shall immediately give the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, to defend her honour. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u56	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u57	Mr Pedro Pinto, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u58	Mr President, I am sorry, but if you are in the Rules of Procedure that the defence of honor is done at the end of the debate, it must be done at the end. Or do the PS and the Left Block send again? Oh, my God! Is this all the opposite? Oh, my God! Mr President, I am sorry, but if the Rules of Procedure say something, we must comply. [[PS, PCP and BE protests.]] This isn't Venezuela!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u59	Mr, Article 84 ( 3 ). the Rules of Procedure determine that the 'President of the Assembly of the Republic shall note the application for defence referred to in paragraph 1...' — therefore the request made by a Member to defend his honour —... to grant the use of the word and their explanations, following the end of the current debate, without prejudice to the possibility to grant it immediately, when he considers that the situations in particular justify it. Do not keep on seeking. ” I'm going to use this faculty that the Rules of Procedure allow me and I've explained why. It is simply because you have not listened to the content of the speech of the honourable Member so that you can corroborate or not what you are saying. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares and Mr Eurico Brilhante Dias referred to me, with the respect I owe to the parliamentary leaders and all Members, that the warning they made justified by using this faculty. And so I do, because the Rules of Procedure allow. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, you have the floor immediately to defend the honour. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u60	Mr President, the honourable Member has just called me a hypocrite, claiming that he does not see me repudiate the death of police officers or the death, in other circumstances, of other people. The NAP has already presented, either in the previous Parliament or in this, vows of regret for the death of any kind of person, regardless of their function. So it doesn't make sense that when you have no arguments to support your ideas—and I understand that it is difficult to defend an absolutely anachronistic activity, meaningless in the 21st century—when arguments are lacking, you go to personal offense. That is not the way to be of the NAP in this Assembly of the Republic, nor will it ever be. You have already seen me and will see-CL - I will, of course, often stand up in love with the values in which I believe, including the abolition of bull machia, out of respect and consideration for animals, but you will never see me offend any colleague in this Chamber. [[Protests by CH Member Rita Matias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u61	Have you forgotten about the offense you did to a colleague? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u62	Mrs Rita Matias, excuse me for asking, because the honourable Member has opened the precedent and I have explained to her only the synonym of what she has also said. [[CH protests.]] When I can conclude, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen... [[CH protests.]] The gentlemen. Members have a lot of time and will certainly be able to speak, but I want, alone and exclusively, to be able to exercise the defence of honor. Mr President, it is good that this is clear, because it is not the first time — and certainly will not be the last to come from this bench — that you are alluding to the controversy that has taken place around my husband's businesses, in particular invoking breakfast and red fruits. Let it be clear, so everyone can hear, that I didn't do anything wrong, I didn't do anything to violate the values of my party... [[CH protests.]] ... nor the environmental values we defend. I suggest that you look further into your bench and into the controversies of which you have so often been accused... However, you have never seen me use these arguments to defend what I believe in and the initiatives that the NAP presents here.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u63	Mr Pedro Pinto has the floor to explain.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u64	Thank you very much, Mr President. I think we're going to have to use a dictionary of what can be said and what can't be said in the Assembly of the Republic, because in the past legislature... [[Protests and laughter from PS and BE.]] Now, the Socialist Party has an absolute majority, the Left Block, as you thought it was still part of this government solution, came here to defend them and we realize this perfectly, but this here is not yet... In fact, I'm going to mention what I said two days ago: Mr. Members, who hold both the 25th of April, the red nails and freedom, freedom, must realize that freedom is both to the left and to the right. [[PS and BE protests.]] You have to understand that! If you don't understand, you have to get used to it! We are the third political force in Portugal! [[Congrats from the CH.]] As much as it costs you — and I know it costs you, Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias, I know it costs you — we are the third political force in Portugal. Get used to it! You have to get used to it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u65	Sir, you mustn't insult people!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u66	Mr President, the former President of the Assembly of the Republic questioned Mr Ventura, at the time, because of the word « shame » ; now it is the word « hypocritical». I believe that the word « shame» and the word « hypocrisy», which are words of the Portuguese dictionary, do not offend anyone. [[PS and BE protests.]] With regard to the bank of the Arrival, they can call us fascists, they can say that we have dictatorial ticks, they can call us whatever they want; when the Arrival says something, alas, alas, alas, the world has already fallen! For God's sake, let's be serious, let's be realistic! As for Mrs Inês Sousa Real, I want to tell you that being a civilizational is knowing how to live in a world where all ideologies are respected, which is what you cannot do. You want to impose your dictatorship, the dictatorship of your taste on others... forget it, forget it! Respect for others is what you have to have. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mrs Deputy was very upset when I spoke in vegan yogurt. Yoghurtes vegan are something that the honourable Member also wants and knows what they are. So I don't get all that uncomfortable. Be less uncomfortable, bring more solutions to the country, since it is together with the Socialist Party, and worry less with diverse facts. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u67	You now have the floor for an intervention on the rules advocated by the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Rui Afonso.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I want to say that this House is not a feud of the Socialist Party, nor are you the leaders of morality. Therefore, respect the other parliamentary groups, please! [[Congrats from the CH.]] With regard to what we have to deal with, which is the price of fuels — which continues to be unbearable and the war, indeed, is no justification for everything — I mean that the extent to which it was adopted by the Socialist Party to contain the price of fuels is ineffective. Moreover, when the measure entered into force, the ISP reduction measure ( tax on oil and energy products ), the crude margins for the marketing of petrol on 2 May, increased 59, 41 % and the gross margins for the marketing of diesel increased 80, 21 %. What the Arrival proposed is simple: a subsidy of 0, 20 € / l to apply directly at the final price of the fuels. This is the easiest, more transparent solution, which can really guarantee the reliability of the mechanism and, above all, ensure that taxpayers' money is not subsidizing the final consumer, as happened to this government measure, which has also been subsidizing gas stations. The extent to which we are presenting in this amendment proposal was adopted in Spain and is also a measure advised by the IMF, the International Monetary Fund, which the Socialist Party knows so well because it had to call twice or three times when it sent the country to bankruptcy. So, ladies and gentlemen, what we want to appeal to is that they really approve our amendment proposal. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u69	Let us now turn to the rules advocated by the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group. But, with the permission of Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, and as Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, however, asked the floor to speak on the previous subject, I will give the floor to Mr. Secretary of State. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u70	Mr President, Mr Rui Afonso, spoke of Spain as a great example, and that was what mattered, but I will tell you the following: on 1 April, in Spain, gas oil was at 1, 85 € / l and on 6 May, after the discount came into force, the diesel was at 1, 87 € / l. This is the effectiveness of the measure. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u71	What about gasoline? Oh, my God! The discount's on the bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u72	To speak on the same subject, I give the floor to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government has perhaps not noticed, but when the Minister of the Environment was here, he said nothing about this. In fact, when he spoke, Galp seemed to be talking, explaining how fuel prices were formed and how nothing could be done. He's changed his bottle now. What has not changed — and that is critical — was the brutal value of the price of fuels. And on this issue, the Government fails to recognize the obvious: firstly, that government policy measures are insufficient for price escalation; secondly, that they do not crush the margins, indeed abusive, of petrol stations; and thirdly, that Galp and the other petroleum companies present hundreds of millions of euros of profit — in favour of this government and its policies. So the question is very simple and direct: will the government defend the country, people, the economy and families and regulate the prices of fuel, or will Galp continue to win the hundreds of millions that it allows? Oh, my God! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u74	In order to speak on the same subject, Mr President-in-Office of the Council asked for the floor. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, the Government in this area has been acting in two dimensions: the first, which has already been widely spoken by the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, is dealing with measures to reduce the tax burden on fuels, to lower prices; the other measure has been approved, if I remember, with the vote in favour of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u76	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u77	So it becomes a little difficult to understand how the Left Block approves a law to regulate the margins and now, a week after the end of the public consultation to define the methodology to identify these margins and to see whether they are excessive, at the moment when we are at the forefront of the law—which the Left Block voted for—comes to make an intervention as if the law did not exist. Are you forgetting, Your Honor? It's just that the Left Block passed the law! Therefore, the intervention of the honourable Member is not understood. It took time for the law to be regulated, for the simple reason that the price formation chains, whether in gasoline, whether in gas, whether in gas, or in bottle gas, are complex and there were no reporting mechanisms that allowed us to realize something very simple: whether there are excessive margins, where they are, how they are formed and how excessive they are. Only with this law and with its proper regulation, which, I repeat, is only now that we are in a position to do, because the public consultation has ended, if I am not mistaken last week, is that we will be able to do everything that the Left Block and, now, the PCP say will, that it is to identify excessive margins and abuses, here or there, whether in refining, whether in transport or in storage.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u78	You must conclude, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u79	Therefore, Mr President, the Government is acting as it should, i.e. to take emergency measures to control and defend Portuguese families and companies in a serious energy crisis and to act seriously, responsible for creating the appropriate mechanisms to do what I thought the Left Block wanted to do, but I have already seen that, even though it has voted against the law, it does not seem to pay much attention to it...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u80	We voted in favour!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u81	Exactly! Although he voted in favour of the law, he acted as if he had voted against it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u82	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares again asked for the floor to speak on the same subject.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u83	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the Left Block voted in favour of the law and would again vote in favour of the law. The problem is that between a law that exists in the role and its implementation there is a government that prevents such execution. That's the problem. The Secretary of State, who was one of the law promoters, knows that she entered this House of the Republic a year ago, from that time until now, 12 months have passed, and you did not move at all in fuel prices, as far as the excessive profit of gas stations is concerned. Therefore, there are two groups of people who know the position of the Left Block and know how it is true: on the one hand, those who agree with us, the families, who are working in the economy, who makes this country walk forward and who feels the abuse of Galp's profit in their pocket every day; and on the other hand, the government and the Galp, who know that if the application of the law were in the right times and due, it had already protected families and the economy, but no, from that point of view, they know that keeping everything as it is keeps Galp always winning. That is our difference: between a law that should do something and a government that has it, that has asked for it, that has taken it, but does nothing with it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u84	I now give the floor to Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto to speak on the rules advocated by the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, yesterday I heard here Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, in the midst of his disturbances with numbers, reply to my statement on the increase in tax revenue through inflation with the reference that VAT revenue only increases by inflation by EUR 900 million. Now, I even thought it was less than that, because the effects of inflation on tax revenues are not only on VAT. I thought you knew about this, but, as you apparently don't know, I have some literature here that I'm going to send you...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u86	We have too!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u87	...to understand all the effects that inflation has on tax revenues. But that was not even the worst thing I said yesterday, because what I said yesterday was that the reduction of marginal rates for the lowest incomes, which we propose, was something undesirable, because those who earn more will also benefit. This is how: by definition of our tax system, if we reduce IRS rates to €25 000, this will benefit everyone who wins above it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u88	Unless we're in Albania!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u89	That's the default! But there is one thing that is important: someone who earns 1 million euros will only see the reduced taxes in those 25 000 €, because in the other 975 000 € he wins will have exactly the same tax burden that he has today. Therefore, our proposal was aimed at lower incomes, as it was these people who, in percentage terms, would benefit more from this proposal. On the other hand, by taking this thinking to the limit, taxes could never be lowered for the lowest incomes, because whenever they are lower for the lowest incomes it benefits those who have higher incomes. That's by definition, it's our system. In any event, the Secretary of State has managed to convince all other parties, at least not to vote in favour of this. Left Block didn't expect anything else, because...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u90	We're not convinced!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u91	... everyone in this House knows that every time Mrs. Mariana Mortágua gets up, it's another tax that rises, it's another thing that's going to happen. the PCP, the Arrival and the NAP did not expect much either, because if your 1000 amendments were all accepted, I don't think a 180 % IRS rate would pay for it. On the question of workers, it is very clear that, for the PCP, it only goes to the payment of taxes, because, when you get to the payment of taxes, the more they pay better. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] I confess that I would wait a little longer, but life is what it is and PSD is what it is! As far as PS is concerned, I remember - Mr Brillante Dias distributed that definition of "hypocrisy" on Tuesday. I am not going to set a circus here, but being a specialist in contradictions, please clarify whether or not it is contradictory — contradictory, note! —...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u92	I should have talked before!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u93	... a party argue against the single rate, by falling the rate of the highest steps, and then come argue against a measure that lowers the rates for the lowest steps. Tell me whether or not it is contradictory a party that has always opposed the single rate, because of its effect, by the emptying of the social state, is opposed to a measure whose reduction in revenue is lower than the increase in revenue that we will have in relation to the previous year. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, today you have another opportunity to reverse and, this time, to vote in favour of a measure that feeds the social elevator, which allows those who want to go up in their lives for their work to be able to do more easily. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u94	To speak on the same subject, Mr Ivan Gonçalves of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, from the speech of the honourable Member, we understand that the magical revenue of the Liberal Initiative is therefore to reduce taxes, in particular those of the most incomes, and this, in a magical way, will also ensure that the deficit is lowered and the public debt is lowered — which Portugal has in a high way, as we all know. What you have failed to explain, Mr President, is how this works in practice. It is that, from the point of view of the propaganda of the Liberal Initiative, in the world of Twitter, this is all very fantastic.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u96	Propaganda? From whom? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u97	The problem is that, in real life, the path that needs to be followed is the path that the Socialist Party is following: protecting incomes, reducing public debt and ensuring the sustainability of public accounts, because that will also allow us to have autonomy to make our decisions in the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u98	The Bureau has indicated that Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto wants to make an inquiry to the Bureau. Is it about the conduct of the works?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u99	Mr President, it was to ask the Bureau to distribute to the banks and to the Government literature on the effect inflation has on tax revenues. And now I would like to reply to the honourable Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u100	Make a tweet with a link that we're going to look for!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u101	Mr. Deputies, that will be done. Allow me, however, to tell the honourable Members and the honourable Members. Members that the Assembly of the Republic is not a school and therefore... [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto asked for the floor for an intervention. All right, Mr. Deputies. [[Right now, Mr. IL Carlos Guimarães Pinto has managed.]] Mr. Deputies, it's an excuse for gesture. You have asked for the floor, and you have asked for the floor for an appeal to the Bureau, the word has been given to you. I now understand your body language that you want to make an intervention. You have every right, you have 28 seconds to do it. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u102	Mr President, I would like to make a protest. Last Tuesday, literature was distributed here about what hypocrisy was and no one came to say that we were not in a school. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u103	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u104	Mr President, I do not know the Rules of Procedure as well as Mr President, but I think that somewhere there comes the requirement that the President of the Assembly of the Republic be at least independent.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u105	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u106	In the last two days we have not seen this here and this was just another example of this lack of independence. Since we have an absolute majority, it was important that we have a President of the Assembly of the Republic who was free and independent. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u107	I therefore assume that you do not want to make an intervention. Did you make a protest in the form of intervention? [[IL protests.]] Mr. Deputy made a protest. I would ask the services which no longer record the time that you used in this protest, so that you can have time to do the intervention, which you have, and that there is no question of the Bureau about the President's too liberality in giving the floor. Therefore, the record I have in mind is that the honourable Member had 28 seconds. So you have the floor to make an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u108	Mr. Deputy mentioned here that we have to look at the real life...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u109	Mr President, you have to use the Rules of Procedure as you speak. So thank you and keep going. Please. [[PS laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u110	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, you mentioned here that we have to look at real life. In real life, what happens is that people who earn 1000 €, 1100 €, 1200 €, when they want to have a salary increase, see your company have to deliver half of this salary increase to the state. The real life is that, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, these people want to make more money and they can't, because your tax burden prevents you! We have people there who are doomed to earn 1000 € because you think having a marginal rate above 30 % is something right for those who earn 1000 €! That is your consideration. That's what we wanted to have invested here and that you rejected. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u111	To speak on the same subject, Mr Ventura, who has 10 seconds, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u112	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, very quickly, in the 10 seconds I have, I just want to say this to the Socialist Party: real life, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party, is that this is probably the only country in Europe in which to go up in the career or go up the job does not compensate, because we have an IRS that takes more than half of what has been won. The only real thing in the IRS rates we have is that even yesterday the European Commission said that the IRS retention rates at source are excessive in Portugal. This is the IRS that the PS does not want to change and that is the IRS that want to perpetuate in Portugal, which does not help the social elevator, which penalizes those who work and benefits those who don't want to do anything.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u113	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u114	Now, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, I just wanted to tell you this: I don't know if the arrival proposals would lead to an IRS of 180 %, but I know that one thing is being a Twitter champion, another is knowing how much a fisherman, a cop, a nurse, a firefighter and a doctor earns. And that comes far better than the Liberal Initiative. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u115	To intervene now on rules avoked by the PCP, you have the floor of Mrs Diana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, free daycare for all children, regardless of the step, in the short term; implement a public daycare network to respond to the enormous shortage of vacancies throughout the national territory; guarantee children their right to attend daycare; ensure that families have no costs with access to this social equipment: these are the proposals which the CFP calls for today for vote by the plenary. The creation of a public network of day care centres is an essential element in ensuring that all families, especially young people, are able to make the decision to have children, with the certainty of having that response, but it is also an essential element in ensuring equal conditions for all children in their development from an early age. With this proposal, there is effective freedom in the short term and also reduced the expenses of family members — many of them faced with dismissals, unemployment, low wages and also loss of wages and income. This proposal is of particular importance in the face of brutal price escalation and loss of purchasing power for workers and families. Nothing serves words of concern with the demographic deficit or the need to increase birth numbers when the following are denied instruments that can exactly promote birth in our country. This proposal was rejected yesterday in the Commission's specialty vote. Mr Nuno Carvalho, from the PSD, had the PSD, at the end of the previous Parliament, voted in favour of the CFP proposal and the problems that you mentioned here were not.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u117	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u118	Mrs. PS Members, who yesterday rejected this proposal, today have a new opportunity to make your vote correspond to the electoral promises they have made while calling for an absolute majority. Use this absolute majority to guarantee children's rights...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u119	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u120	... and to families, do not use this absolute majority to deny these same rights. They approve the proposal of the CFP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u121	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there are requests for a word, which I shall give, on the same subject as other parliamentary groups and the only Member of Parliament. First, however, I just want to ask the services to open the quorum verification system, as we are approaching the end of this debate. To speak on the same subject, you have the floor of Mrs Inês Sousa Real of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to day care, the NAP understands that freeness is essential for the relief of families, but we also understand that more should be done. The proposal, as it is in the Budget, will only support about 4 out of every 10 children, since the coverage of the entire national territory is only 48 %. And that is why we believe that children whose family aggregates fill all the assumptions to be eligible for this support should benefit from this, even if there is no protocol with social security, having to make use of the private. Unfortunately this proposal has been rejected, but we hope that the Assembly of the Republic will be able to take this path so as not to leave any family lacking behind.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u123	To speak on the same subject, Mr José Soeiro, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there are at least three problems concerning day care. The first problem is price. And this problem is solved with freeness, which, with the Government's proposal, will not reach all children who are attending daycare in 2022. The second problem is coverage. We have daycare coverage rates which, for example, in the Porto district, are about 38 % and in Lisbon are about 40 %, which means that there are not enough breaks to accommodate all children of age who attend daycare and who need this educational response and that social response. The third problem is the model. The government insists on the absence of a public network of day care centres. Now, if we think that day care is a right, we need, exactly, to understand that it is a public policy—such as the other levels of education and the other rights guaranteed by the Constitution—and we need to include day care in the education system and build a public network of day care centres. Now, the Socialist Party, with the rejection of the proposal presented by the Left Block, insists on a model in which daycare remains exclusively of the cooperative system, the social system and the absence of a public network of daycare centers and does not guarantee all children who need and attend the daycare free in 2022. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u125	I'm asking the ladies. Members who are standing in favour of sitting down and preparing for a very important moment, which is the time of the vote, and that the conditions are created for Members to speak can be heard. Mr Bruno Dias, you now have the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and Members of the Commission. Members, the proposal of the CFP on the so-called taxation of unexpected profits is not a vague or indefinite concept or a weak basis, on the contrary. It is an objective proposal, focused on specific situations, in which the appropriation of truly illegitimate profit margins or the use of absolutely exceptional circumstances or the use of clearly speculative practices in price formation can be demonstrated. These practices can be demonstrated and these extraordinary gains can be quantified and taxed which have been obtained with the sacrifice of millions of Portuguese and of micro, small and medium-sized companies in our country. With the CFP proposals, it is possible to respond fairly to these situations, it is necessary to approve the CFP proposals. In the case of fuels, the need to control prices and prevent their speculative escalation in relation to this sector is inevitable. And when establishing the reference price, by controlling gross margins of refining, we prevent these excessive margins in the future and proceed to the taxation of those which have occurred so far. The rejection of this proposal, with the votes against the Liberal Initiative, the Arrival, the PSD and the PS, is an option that harms the country and the Portuguese. in this plenary session is the opportunity to make the correct decision and approve this proposal of the CFP. The same is said about the PCP proposal for an extraordinary contribution on the insurance sector, to affect the extraordinary gains that insurers had, particularly in the car sector, in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic. Road traffic has dropped drastically in times of confinement; road sinisterness has reduced a lot — and still well! — but the huge reduction in costs for insurers has resulted in lower costs for those who pay, but greater profits for insurers. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u127	The question is whether the PS will continue to be relevant to this situation. They may consider it to be in favour of the oil and insurance industry most left-wing ever, but once again the requirement is to have political courage to face the interests of the economic groups, respond to people's problems and defend national interest. For that, you can count on the PCP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u128	In order to speak on the rule avoked by the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u129	Mr President, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, we are not here. Whenever a member of the Liberal Initiative rises to talk about a salary of 1000 €, there is a rich man who knows he will pay less tax. Whenever I get up, there is a privilege that, yes, should feel threatened, on behalf of a majority of people who work, on behalf of a majority of people who know that there are no illusions of easy fortune. After all, we're not all Elon Musk and you can be sure that for me, Elon Musk paid taxes. [[Congratulations from BE.]] That is precisely why, and because of this will of justice, I do bring, yes, tax increases for those who must pay and do not pay. Let me give you some examples: that of Galp, which in the fourth quarter of 2021, had 40 times more profits than in 2020 and in the first quarter of 2022, had more 500 % profits; that of Jerome Martins, who had more 50 % profits in 2021 and more 55 % profits in 2022 ; that of Sonae, who had record profits in eight years, with more than 61 % only in Model and Continent. The gentlemen. Members are in such a hurry to lower taxes that finance education, health, schools, the environment that allows companies to produce and have profits, but then they have so much difficulty in taxing the excessive profits that are being made at the cost of prices. Galp has excessive profits because it speculates with the refining and charges the prices that are charged and which so much offends the Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. Jerome Martins has profits because he speculates about retail selling prices, because he punishes people who, every day, work to receive, with so much effort, the such 1000 € that Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto speaks of and who are then spent to guarantee profit margins record to Jerome Martins or the Pink Doce. There is no reason for these companies to internalize the cost of inflation and not share these gains with society. And that is why, in the name of this justice, in the name of the end of this privilege, it is to profit from the impoverishment of an entire population, which we present a tax on the excessive profits of energy and retail.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u130	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u131	It is so radical that it is defended by the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ), the European Commission and the IMF. We don't know why the government doesn't defend it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u132	To speak on the norm avocado by the PAN, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u133	Unfortunately, Mr President, this measure that we have tabled, aimed at reducing the VAT of veterinary acts to 6 %, was rejected yesterday in the Commission. When the Portuguese are faced with inflation, not only of the essential goods, but also of the care of pets, which now make up more than 50 % of the family households, it is impossible for the Assembly of the Republic to continue to close its eyes and ignore this reality. Nor can we forget the concept One Health, because speaking of animal health and human health, as well as the Instituto Ricardo Jorge reminds us, is precisely recognizing this concept, of which they are inseparable. It was in this sense that we invoked this rule. We regret that it was rejected yesterday and we hope that today we will be accompanied by this because, indeed, it does not make sense that, for example, a tour worker is exempt from VAT and someone who has a life-saver mission has to pay the VAT of these same veterinary acts to 23 %. It is for families and also for animal welfare that we have a duty to legislate and promote measures through the State budget, rather than constantly giving tax bills to polluters, banks and even those who do not need the money of the State, taxes and all of us.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u134	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor to speak on the rule avoked by the Free Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Faces and Dear Colleagues—in particular those who come from municipalities such as Azambuja, Cartexo, Alenquer, and so many others— today celebrate the Quinta-Feira da Espiga, municipal holiday at the Ribatejo, at the Stratmadura, at the Alentejo and in many parts of our country. For a party that has a papola symbol and was released with a manifesto published exactly 10 years ago, on a Quinta-Feira da Espiga, this is also a special day. in these 10 years that we have led to life, first as a movement and then as a party, we have witnessed a global financial crisis, a crisis in the euro area, a pandemic and now a war on the European continent, as we have not witnessed for several generations, and we have had a depression, the greatest since the Great Depression of 1929. In the face of all this, the automatic economic and social stabilisers in our countries have often had to adapt to the infrastructure and administration that is still of the last century. The extent to which we voted today in plenary, which proposes to carry out a study on unconditional basic income (RBI), can be better understood precisely as an automatic stabilizer. Economists from all ideological areas — including ex-Deputies of this House — who are against the unconditional basic income, during the pandemic, however, said that at that time we would have needed an unconditional basic income of emergency, as did the United States and even Brazil. But if we had decided in Europe or Portugal to implement an unconditional basic emergency income at that time, we would not have had the technical, administrative and knowledge capacity for power, in fact, to do. That is why we should also understand the conduct of a study on an unconditional basic income such as the opportunity to, in time, know the ways of implementation of a measure that we may need in the future. There are several models of unconditional basic income, of which I would point out only one, because today we are talking about inflation. Economist and sociologist Guy Standing, during many years as an official of the International Labour Organization, suggests that unconditional basic income is variable, evolutionary and determined by an independent agency, as central banks determine the interest rate. For what? In order to increase this unconditional basic income and, in times of expansion, when we approach full employment, we can reduce it and use it as an anti-inflationary measure, protecting us from inflation before it arrives. Of course, we are now in the moment of inflation, but having-CL would do us good if, during the pandemic, we had an unconditional basic emergency income and we had gradually decreased it, to prevent us from reaching where we are now. There are many of our colleagues who say: "I am not afraid to defend this or that unpopular cause. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] Dear colleague and Member Joana Mortagua, the Free, as there is no problem in bringing the debate a measure, such as the one approved yesterday by the Left Block on the extension of the unemployment allowance to victims of domestic violence, because we think it is practical and urgent, nor does it have any problem in bringing measures that will take their way and on which even leaders of their party who were against them said that during the pandemic they would have been in favour. So calm down! We are not afraid to say that we need to know more and study. That is why, since the Free House still has one minute and the government needs time to give some answers, I would like to ask you this time so that you can say whether you think that, even if this study is being conducted this year, there is a way to align ourselves with the rest of the international debate, in order to know what kind of study we could implement on the RBI.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u136	Mr President, the problem with time allocations is that they must be accepted by those to whom they are addressed. [[Pause.]] Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs asked for the floor, so I will give it to you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u137	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, allow me to thank the government for giving up time. Mr Rui Tavares, in parliamentary terms, we have started a very fruitful debate with the Free, which has been translated into some proposals that have advanced in the field of specialty, and we will certainly have the entire legislature to deepen this same work and all the important instruments to strengthen our social state. Of course, we will always be available for that. Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, first of all, I would like to thank you for the availability of the elements, which I shall read carefully. Anyway, I would like to tell you that you are mixing two different topics. The first concerns the impact of inflation on tax revenue, which must be measured by ad valorem taxes, which are essentially VAT and, in a very marginal way, tobacco tax. And yet, honourable Member, what I have drawn to you was the following: of the 2000 million euros of tax revenue growth from October 2021 to now, EUR 1300 million is VAT and EUR 500 million is IRS. With regard to IRS, Mr Deputies, I would like to remind you that the average wage in Portugal increased from 2015 to 2021, 18, 1 %, and that is why there is an increase in tax revenue at the level of IRS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u138	Mr. Secretary of State, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u139	I shall now conclude, Mr President. What I have told you, Mr President, is that, with regard to growth due to inflation, it is in VAT that you can concentrate your attention because it is a tax that affects the price as a whole. Therefore, it is normal that, increasing the price, also increase the recipe.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u140	Mr. Secretary of State, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u141	I'm done now, Mr. President. Finally, Mr President, in his invitation to the other seats, he said that he wanted to lower the taxes for those who earn up to half the salary of a Member and what I showed him—and I am glad that he finally realized and acknowledged that—it was that he would do so not only for those who are rich, especially for those who earn EUR 1 million, which he spoke about. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u142	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at the conclusion of the first item on the agenda, we shall proceed to the vote on the rules adopted. I ask the services to close the electronic quorum verification system and present the results. [[Pause.]] According to the results presented, we have quorum. Now, like what I did yesterday, I'm going to ask, on the bench, if anyone couldn't register. Has anyone not been able to register in the Left Block Parliamentary Group? [[Pause.]] All of them were able to register. Has anyone not been able to register in the CFP Parliamentary Group? [[Pause.]] All of them were able to register. Has anyone not been able to register in the PS Parliamentary Group? [[Pause.]] All of them were able to register. Has anyone not been able to register in the PSD Parliamentary Group? [[Pause.]] All of them were able to register. Has anyone not been able to register in the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group? [[Pause.]] All of them were able to register. Has anyone not been able to register in the Parliamentary Group of Arrival? [[Pause.]] All of them were able to register. Therefore, there is no presence to register orally. We shall proceed to the vote, according to the script which has been distributed. We begin by voting on proposal 1388 - C of the PSD, adding Article 112. o-B — Amendment to Law No 2 / 2022 of 3 January. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the IL.]] We shall vote on proposal 13 - C, tabled by the CFP, to add Article 115. o -A - Extension of the freeness of day care. Mr. Duarte Pacheco asked to intervene, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u143	Mr President, please note Article 2 ( 1 ( d ). that of Law No 2 / 2022 of 3 January, provided for in proposal 13 - C, because we have a differentiated sense of vote. Then the rest can be voted together.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u144	Mrs. Members, since there is no objection and the CFP agrees, then we shall vote on this proposal, with the exception of Article 2(1)(d ). Law No 2 / 2022. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]] We now vote on Article 2 ( 1 ( ( d ). o [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS, the PS and the IL and votes against the CH, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We shall vote on proposal 19 - C1, of the CFP, which shall add Article 202. -A — Control and price fixing. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L.]] Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on proposal 19 - C2, submitted by the CFP, which shall add Article 202. o-B — Amendment to Decree-Law No 31 / 2006 of 15 February 2006 [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L.]] The vote is followed by the vote on proposal 19 - C3 of the CFP, which adds Article 202. o-C— Extraordinary contribution on speculative gains in the refining margins. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L.]] We moved on to Article 206. o — Contracts not subject to the New Urban Rent Scheme. We shall first vote on paragraph 1, points (a) and (b) and the body of paragraph 2 and paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 of that Article. [[The vote was taken by votes to PS and PAN, votes against PSD and CH and abstentions against IL, the CFP, BE and L.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on proposal 544 - C, of the L, for the addition of Article 217. o -A— Unconditional Basic Performance Pilot Project. [[When put to the vote, the PS, PS, CH, IL, PCP and BE were rejected and votes in favour of the PAN and L.]] Article 218 is followed. o — Amendment to the Code of the Tax on the Income of Single Persons. Let us begin by voting on Article 12 ( b ) and the body of Article 12 ( 1 ). o -A of the IRS Code. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, PS, IL and PAN, votes against the CFP and BE and abstentions against CH and L.]] We now vote on Article 13 ( 5 ( ( d ). that of the said Code, as set out in Article 218. The proposal of the law. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the IL and the NAP and with abstentions from the PSD, the CH, the CFP, the BE and the L.]] Under the same Article, we shall proceed to the vote under Article 22 ( a ) and ( b ). the IRS Code. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS and the NAP, votes against the PSD and IL and abstentions against the CH, the CFP, the BE and the L.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on Article 31 ( 15 ( a) and ( c) and ( 16 ). Article 43 ( d ), Article 43 ( 6, 7, 8 and 9. the e of points ( a) and ( b) and the body of Article 45 ( 3 ). that of the IRS Code, as set out in that article of the bill. [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of the PS and abstentions of the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L were adopted.]] Mrs. Members, also in the same article, shall proceed to the vote on Article 55 ( 1 ( d ). that of the same Code. [[The vote was taken by votes to PS, votes against PSD and IL and abstentions against CH, PCP, BE, PAN and L.]] We now vote on the proposal 670 - C1, submitted by the IL, replacing Article 68 ( 1 ) Table. the IRS Code. [[Having put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L, with votes against the IL and the abstention from the CH.]] We proceeded to vote on proposal 887 - C2, from the PSD, which replaces Article 68 ( 1 ) Table. that of the said Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the CCP, the BE and the NAP and the L abstention.]] We shall vote on the Table of Article 68 ( 1 ). the IRS Code. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L, votes against the PSD and the IL and the abstention from the CH.]] The vote is followed by the vote on proposal 887 - C1 of the PSD, which amends Article 68 ( 2 ). the IRS Code, as set out in Article 218. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the IL, the CFP, the BE and the NAP and abstentions of the CH and the L.]] We now vote on Article 68 ( 2 ). the IRS Code. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L and votes against the PSD, the CH and the IL.]] We shall proceed to the vote on Article 72 ( 13 ), ( 14 ), ( 15 ), ( 16 ) and ( 17 ). the IRS Code, as set out in Article 218. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the NAP, votes against the PSD and IL and abstentions against the CH, the CFP, the BE and the L were adopted.]] Mrs. Members, also in the context of the same article of the bill, follow the vote on proposal 1046 - C1, submitted by the PS, which amends Article 72 ( 18 ) ( c ). that of the same Code. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the IL, the CFP, the BE and the L and with abstentions from the PSD, the CH and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u145	Mr President, with this approval, paragraph 18 is damaged.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u146	All right, Mr. Deputies. Let us then vote on Article 72 ( 19 ), ( 20 ) and ( 21 ). the IRS Code, as set out in the same Article 218. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the NAP, votes against the PSD and IL and abstentions against the CH, the CFP, the BE and the L were adopted.]] We shall then vote on Article 78 ( 7 ( b) and ( c ). the IRS Code. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L, against the IL and with abstentions from the PS and the CH.]] I wonder if we can vote on Article 78 ( 3 ). the -A, points (a) and (b) and body together with paragraphs 4 and 7. The Liberal Initiative seems to have doubts.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u147	Mr President, we have different ways of voting.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u148	All right. We shall then vote together on points ( a) and ( b) and the body of Article 78 ( 3 ), as well as Article 78 ( 4 ). the -A of Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November ( Tax Code on the Income of Single Persons ), as set out in Article 218. The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the CH were adopted.]] The vote on Article 78 ( 4 ) shall follow. o-C of Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November, contained in the same article of the bill. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the IL and abstentions from the PSD, the CH and the NAP.]] We now turn to the joint vote on Article 78 ( 7 ). o-D and Article 78 ( 3 ). o-E, both of Decree-Law No. 442 -A / 88 of 30 November, contained in Article 218. The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the CFP, the BE and the NAP, against the IL and abstentions from the PSD, the CH and the L.]] We shall vote on Article 78 (6). o-F of Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November, contained in the same article of the bill. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, IL, BE, PAN and L and with abstentions from PSD, CH and PCP.]] We shall then proceed to the vote on Article 84 ( 5 ). the same decree. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L, votes against the IL and abstentions from the PSD and the CH.]] We shall now vote on Article 99 ( 4 ) and ( 5 ). o-F of Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November in Article 218. The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, IL, PAN and L, votes against the CFP and abstentions from the PSD, CH and BE.]] We need to examine this article! [[Laughing.]] We shall proceed to the vote on Article 119 ( 3 ). the Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November, as contained in Article 218. The proposal of the law. [[The vote was taken by votes to PS and PAN, votes against IL and abstentions to PSD, CH, PCP, BE and L.]] The vote on Article 119 ( 14 ) and ( 15 ) shall follow. the same decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS and the NAP and abstentions of the PSD, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE and the L were adopted.]] We shall then vote on proposal 1145 - C, tabled by the Left Block, to add Article 223. o -A — Rate on extraordinary profits. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L.]] Let us now vote on proposal 395 - C, tabled by the Czech Republic, to add Article 226. o -A — Amendment to List I annexed to the VAT Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, BE, PAN and L were rejected, votes against the PS and CH and abstentions against the IL and the CFP.]] We proceed to Article 227. the proposal for a law and we proceed to the vote on proposal 44 - C, submitted by the NAP, adding the words 2.38 to List I annexed to the VAT code. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of CH, IL, BE, PAN and L and abstentions from the PSD and the CFP.]] The vote was followed by the vote on proposal 1135 - C, submitted by the PS, on the addition of Article 231. o -A — Amendment to Law No 70 / 2021 of 4 November. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL and the NAP and with abstentions from the PSD, the CFP, the BE and the L.]] We turn to Article 234. o — Transitional provisions on oil and energy products. We shall vote on proposal 80 - C, tabled by the Czech Republic, adding paragraph 20 to this article of the bill. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PS, the PCP, the PAN and the L, votes against the CH and the IL and the abstention from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u149	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u150	We continue with Article 238. o — Amendment to the Code of Municipal Tax on Onerous Transmissions of Real Estates. We shall vote on proposal 1297 - C, submitted by the PSD, adding Article 9 ( 2 ). that of the IMT Code ( Institute for Mobility and Transport ), contained in this article of the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL and the NAP and abstentions of the CFP, the BE and the L.]] We therefore conclude the second item on the agenda and move on to the third item, which consists of the continuation of our debate on the subject. The Bureau shall have record of the entries made by the Members. Members and, following the order of the articles of the bill, the first requests for intervention concern Article 240. o — Amendment to the Statute for Tax Benefits ( EBF ). First of all, Mr Bruno Aragão of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on this budget has been a recurring argument on the need to implement structural reforms. This budget chapter can set a good example for us, because there are many areas, such as the field of innovation, where what we really need is to continue to reform. Let us therefore give concrete examples.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u152	Sir, I'm sorry to interrupt a little bit. The ladies and gentlemen. Members who want to leave the Hemicycle can do - in silence, it is not mandatory - to do so with noise. We have to create conditions for you. Members can be heard. Mr Bruno Aragão, please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u153	Mr President, as I said, what we really have is to continue to reform. But we have given concrete examples. In 2020, we saw the largest investment in research and development that is registered. In previous years, investment levels have always been increasing, the country's technological and innovation capacity too, private investment has always accompanied public investment, we have been attracting more technology-based companies and we are now participating in more international innovation consortia. Is it a structural change or not? Are you, or are you not, having consequences on strengthening the capacity of our economy? What should we do then? Oh, my God! What we must do is continue to respond to measures that at the right time seek to strengthen these reformist policies. In this State budget, there are two very concrete proposals for real life: the increase in the limit of non-taxation of income for industrial property, which we have repeatedly referred to as the patent box regime and also the strengthening of the attractiveness of the tax regime aimed at technological start-ups, also repeatedly referred to as the tax regime for stock options. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The question is whether these measures are being pursued. The aim is simple: to make Portugal one of the countries with the most attractive tax regime in this area of the European Union. Do you have anything of a structurator? It has, when politics is sustained and, above all, when its results are sustained and undeniable. A reform is this: continuous measures in time, which respond, at every moment, with specific purposes and which, in their aggregate, are fundamental policies, are even real life. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u154	You have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Patrícia Dantas of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u155	Ex. Mr. President, Ex. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, what we propose to amend is to give the legal framework necessary for the admission of companies to the free zone of Madeira by the end of 2023. It is a situation that is pending and which much penalises Madeira and, in turn, Portugal. Failure to realize this is to refuse the impact of this national investment capture instrument, which, in the event of extinction, would lead to a loss of 3 % of the active population in the region and of 400 million euros in VAB (gross added value), the equivalent of 1600 € per Madeirense. We therefore hope that, in a logic of commitment and responsibility with the country, this intention will be welcomed and that its approval will also be a sign of commitment for the future, a commitment for the renegotiation of State aid with the European Commission, after-2023, which will enable this important project to be enhanced in a totally strict perspective. We are sure that, if this does not happen, the relocation of companies and capital will be automatic to other destinations, some even on the European continent, which would be a regrettable loss to Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u156	For an intervention, Mr Sérgio Ávila of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, within the framework of the Tax Benefit Statute, the main challenges of this fundamental instrument are, without doubt, the fight against depopulation, the fight against desertification and the revitalization of the territories currently in need of population strengthening. The Tax Benefit Statute has objective instruments that aim to achieve this end and, in this sense, it is important that these instruments be extended to autonomous regions. Within the framework of the proposal submitted by the Socialist Party, it is possible to create the two operating conditions that were missing to extend to the territories of the autonomous regions this fundamental instrument of combating desertification and depopulation. First, by establishing that regional governments can define in the regions what are the territorial areas that lack this additional instrument of attractiveness. Secondly, by reconciling the powers under the Regional Finance Act to reduce IRC by 30 % (the income tax of the public) with the reduction that is foreseen for these territories, allowing the rate of IRC for this purpose to be only 8 %, 75 % of the eligible amount in the autonomous regions. In other words, to combine a lower IRC rate, to attract companies, with the 20 % increase that exists under the Investment Tax Code, the 10 percentage points increase in the travel of university students and also the increases in terms of deduction to the IRS collection for rent purposes, in the displacement of the population. Together, it is undoubtedly a measure that meets two clear objectives: it extends to the entire national territory these tax benefits to combat depopulation and, essentially, creates conditions for strengthening the attractiveness of private investment in autonomous regions, whose territories are currently experiencing desertification problems. It is therefore a proposal that aims to create greater territorial cohesion throughout the national context and better development prospects throughout the national territory. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u158	Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in this State budget it is clear that the Socialist Government is indifferent to the problems of social communication. It is true that the Minister for Culture has said that he wants to have a distant and minimalist attitude towards social communication, which we understand, because the Government should not have a paternalistic or manipulative attitude towards social communication. But that cannot be an excuse for leaving her to give up and without any support, because, especially social, regional and local communication, it is an essential factor in such territorial cohesion with which the government fills its mouths. Since politics is done more than words, the PSD presents a proposal, in the right sense, and wants to see how the government reacts. We propose that, for the purpose of determining the taxable profit within IRC, advertising expenditure in these bodies should be considered at 150 % of that amount. It's not a solution, but it's a step in the right direction. Now, the ball is on your side! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u160	For an intervention, Mr Miguel Iglesias of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the International Centre for Madeira (CINM) is a key instrument for the economic vitality of our region. Its importance is factually evident from the indicators of licensed companies, investment capital, tax revenue, areas of activity and jobs created. In 2020, a year of pandemic crisis, CINM generated a total of EUR 108 million of direct effective tax revenue, corresponding to 12, 7 % of the total revenue of RAM ( Madeira Autonomous Region ). Unfortunately, CINM has been the victim of untransparent regional political decisions which have called into question its own management, namely the direct adjustment of the award to a private undertaking without an international public tender in 2017, which led to a European Commission infringement proceedings against Portugal, led to a rejection by the Court of Auditors, led to a commission of inquiry in the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, and finally led to a criminal investigation which, personally, I hope will end with results. But the erratic decisions of the PSD regional government cannot be a reason to harm or diminish the importance that the free zone has in our economy. International services, the industrial free zone and the International Register of Ships generate thousands of qualified and irreplaceable jobs in the context of the outermost regions in which we live, dependent on tourism and civil construction. A study by the University of Coimbra shows that the end of CINM would have tragic impacts on Madeira, with a likely loss of EUR 400 million in VAB and 1250 jobs, which would immediately be lost and irreplaceable. The extension of the deadline for issuing licences for operation at the CINM, proposed by the PS Parliamentary Group, under Regime IV, is a fair and relevant proposal for the Autonomous Region of Madeira until 31 December 2023. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u162	For an intervention, Mr José Moura Soeiro, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u163	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, artistic authors and creators have a tax benefit that has been discontinued without information or publicity, surprising thousands of plastic artists, writers, composers who would thus become taxed by double, which is unbeliefable for their incomes. Our question is simple: is the government available to correct the lapse and to extend or resume this rule? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u164	I now give the floor to Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by replying to Mr José Soeiro, whom I thank for the question he raises, because it allows me to clarify this issue in the public space. The tax benefit of Article 58. that of the EBF — I think that is what it refers to — which, in terms of intellectual property and copyright, excludes taxation at 50 % up to 10 000 €, is an important tax benefit which last year will last five years and will expire. As when we presented the proposal for an autonomous law on the remuneration of tax benefits, this tax benefit had not been reassessed in the study we had commissioned to the ISCTE (Instituto Universitário de Lisboa ) — in the previous year we had commissioned the study to New University — we extended it transitionally for only one year. It was now included in the set of tax benefits that will expire on 31 December 2022 and that are being evaluated in the Centre for Tax and Customs Studies, a study that will then substantiate the proposal that we will bring to the Assembly of the Republic. That is why we have chosen not to address this issue of renewing tax benefits in the State budget, so that we can have this debate in Parliament with greater depth. This article is within the scope of the study. I do not want to anticipate the conclusion, but of the sensitivity I have and of what I know about this tax benefit, I would say that it will probably be extended for the normal five years—as we had no doubt in doing, without study, for a year. So the answer is this: we are working to bring the bill to the Assembly of the Republic. It is not just about renewing, or not, tax benefits. Often, the study allows us to fine-tune aspects of these tax benefits and, therefore, this is what is happening. I am grateful for the question and my answer is in the positive sense that we will present a bill to the Assembly of the Republic. As it is IRS and we are talking about liquidations of 2022 only in 2023, there will be no damage to the beneficiaries. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let me highlight two points, one of which concerns the autonomous regions. I think it is very important that we all remember the principle of State continuity. It is a fundamental value of the Republic, and the Republic is the continent and it is the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira. That is why I feel so relevant to the proposal of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, which Mr Sérgio Ávila presented, in order to extend to the autonomous regions the tax benefits that are already in force for the low density areas, the interior areas. I think it is an important contribution to the fulfilment of this principle of territorial continuity. With regard to the proposals which both the Madeira PSD and the Madeira PS presented on the extension of the grant of licences in the free zone of Madeira for another two years, I would just like to frame: firstly, that the regional aid, approved by the European Commission, allows this renewal decision to be taken by 2023 ; and secondly — even though the NAP Member is not in the Chamber - that the Government has fulfilled its commitment, mirrored in the last State budget, to promote a cost/benefit study with a public university in respect of Madeira's free zone. We had the opportunity to send to the Assembly of the Republic this study, conducted by the University of Coimbra, which underpins the decision taken by the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen have to take. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u166	To intervene on Article 241. o — Amendment to the Fiscal Code on Investment, has the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u167	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in 2020, in Portugal, the public expenditure in research and development per person was € 71. The European Union averaged €225 per person — €648 in Luxembourg and €519 in Denmark. If we analyze as a percentage of GDP ( gross domestic product ), the public expenditure in research and development in Portugal is 0, 36 % less than half of the value in the European Union. at the same time as Portugal is on the European tail in public spending on research and development, companies are offered one of the most generous tax benefits at the head of IRC : the SIFIDE ( System of Tax Incentives in Research and Business Development ). Between 2006 and 2019, SIFIDE cost public accounts EUR 3000 million. [[Protests by PS MP Miguel Matos.]] We ask: Why has he become so attractive in recent times? It became attractive from the moment that companies were able to deduct, within IRC, not only research and development expenditure, but also expenditure on the purchase of venture capital equity units, which say they invest in research and development even if they do not do so later. This is the greatest example of a bad public policy. The government has created a market for venture capital funds, which now live at the expense of selling tax benefits, and the tax benefit is so great that these venture capital funds have no incentive to make good management. They can manage badly, they can fail the funds that is still beneficial, such is the amount of the tax benefit. Thus, we have the State to create a group of subsidies, venture capital funds, which live to sell tax benefits. It is the liberal paradise, promoted by the Socialist Party and the government, and we want to end it! Therefore, we want venture capital funds to cease being eligible for the allocation of SIFIDE, ending with this subsidy for those who live by the tax benefits of the State, paid by all taxpayers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u168	For an intervention, Mr Carlos Pereira of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, before going directly to the subject of the Budget and the article I want to comment on, I would like to make a comment that seems relevant to me. in these last four days of debate, the opposition has sought to bring to Parliament a supposed idea — it has been another proclamation, it is said, in favour of truth, that voting against opposition proposals is supposedly to exercise absolute power. Now, the people who are at home know perfectly that one thing has nothing to do with the other.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u170	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u171	We spoke in a "compressor roll" and in a set of adjectives that wanted to pass this idea, perhaps, because there is no way in the opposition that can be framed in this Budget, but a false idea has passed.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u172	Unfortunately it's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u173	It seems very important to me to say, on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, that, in the same way as we respect all minorities, we demand that this majority be respected. We have 120 Members, we have an electoral programme and we want to do it. We will not, in any way, approve proposals that violate or question the principles and foundations of the Electoral Programme of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The second note I wanted to give has to do with today, when this Parliament has emerged on the right and on the left, a difference with the Socialist Party on fiscal policy. It is true that we have differences in the way we conduct fiscal policy, whether left or right. However, I would like to say that at the end of all these years it was with this fiscal policy that the country has grown considerably above the European Union average. It was with this fiscal policy that we reduced the government deficit, it was with this fiscal policy that we achieved a greater proportion of exports compared to GDP, that fiscal policy we achieved private investment records and that fiscal policy that we had foreign investment records. Therefore, with all the differences that we observe in this House, I simply mean that they can distribute the literature they want, the studies they want, but the truth is that there are no facts that deny this reality that I have just mentioned. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] This budget obviously has the continuity of this fiscal policy that I have just mentioned and I would like to emphasise two very important things. On the one hand, the new tax incentive for economic recovery — basically, an investment tax regime — which I think is very relevant and, in some ways, allows to stimulate and encourage private investment, as we have done, in a mix of fiscal policies. Secondly, it seems to me also very relevant to the continuity of tax benefits that will be contracted with structural projects for the country. It has been this way that we have managed to bring a lot of foreign investment and ensure the increase in private investment, and so on. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests of PSD and CH Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u174	They're ideologies!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u175	For an intervention, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs, Antonio Mendonça Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, I would like to share with you that the Government is quite attentive to this subject of tax benefits within the framework of SIFIDE when they are through indirect forms, i.e. investment funds. This concern, which I have in particular, has led me to ask the General Inspection of Finance to check this situation and the practice of it, because I have a concern about SIFIDE, which is perhaps the most useful tax benefits to the country. As a result of the report of the Working Group on Tax Benefits, coordinated by Prof. Francisca Guedes de Oliveira, SIFIDE has a very large reproductive effect for each euro which is invested. The introduction of indirect investment has been put in place and we have made a correction in the sense of the obligation to stay of the units of participation and of deadline for investment,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u177	Doesn't look like it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u178	...but we don't think it was enough. We are finishing this work in the government so that there will soon be an intervention on this subject, but what I mean is that the situation cannot be as it is and that we share the concerns — at least a few — which the honourable Member put forward here. This leads me to another issue, which is the need for, in relation to tax benefits, we have a lot of parity. That is why we say in the State Budget Report that this year we will implement the technical unit of fiscal policy, as it comes from the work that we have done in this tax benefit raising, so that we can have a systematic practice of assessing tax benefits, either at the time of creating these benefits, or in monitoring their implementation, or for their evaluation in cases of renewal. A short time ago, in reply to Mr José Moura Soeiro, I was talking about one of these cases. Therefore, we have the rule that tax benefits are transitional, are in force for five years and must be evaluated. Without prejudice to the need to involve the academic environment, we believe that the State must have a unity for this. We have done this work with the IMF and the European Commission and we believe that this year we can implement this technical unit of tax benefits. But, in terms of innovation, we cannot believe that a doll makes spring. Because there is a problem in SIFIDE, which we have to solve, it does not mean that SIFIDE is a problem and does not mean that we do not make incentives for research and development. That is why I would like to welcome Mr Bruno Aragão's statement because I find the two points that he stressed very important. One is the patent regime, i.e. Portugal becomes attractive to have a patent regime that will attract knowledge. On the other hand, it is very important that our start-ups ecosystem, which is recognized worldwide, can also be accompanied by an appropriate tax regime, with regard to remuneration, through the so-called stock options. That is why we have this legislative authorization and we are going to work towards a balance between the incentives that must be made and the tax justice that exists among all taxpayers. I would also like to take advantage of Mr Carlos Pereira's intervention, in particular the importance of having the fiscal incentive for recovery, which is again proposed in the State budget. I think it is surprising that the right—which is always saying that companies have been forgotten in this budget—is absolutely silent, when there is still plenty of time to talk. Still, I think the tax incentive for recovery is very relevant and has two characteristics to underline. The first is the following: we had no prejudice to recover, within the pandemic, the extraordinary tax credit for investment, exactly in the same terms as it had been made in 2013 and 2014. We wanted to do this because we needed a quick way that companies could already be familiar with and so we used exactly the same rules. This extraordinary investment tax credit had a tax expenditure of EUR 350 million in the first year, and that means inducing investment at a very difficult time. The first note of this tax incentive for recovery is therefore the continuity and stability of tax instruments, but the second note is that this incentive makes the following adaptation in relation to previous ones: it makes greater use of the incremental investment of companies and less of the current investment. That is, all the normal investment that companies make, even though in this more difficult context, has a tax credit of 10 %, but all that is incremental has a rate of 25 %. We think that this is the right incentive and, therefore, once again, I would like to thank Mr Carlos Pereira for bringing this issue up, as well as Mr Bruno Aragão, on patent box and stock options. Once again, I wanted to record that the right has nothing to say, because this proves that it is just a slogan saying that this Budget does not think about companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u179	You have the floor to speak to Mr Jorge Mendes of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State for Tax Affairs made an overhaul without connecting the fish, because my intervention, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, is exactly on tax incentives for businesses in the field of energy efficiency. As the Secretary of State and the other Members of this House know, during these four months, there has been an exponential increase in the operational costs of Portuguese companies by more than 20 %, in particular as energy costs have increased. Today we have the opportunity to make a contribution to minimize this impact, especially on the energy costs of companies, by accelerating their energy transition so that, with more energy efficiency, they also have less unit production costs. Nothing better than, in this context, we are consistent with words through a tax incentive to our companies in terms of energy efficiency. Therefore, the PSD proposal has exactly to do with the need to implement a program of tax incentives, dedicated to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which stimulates investment in energy efficiency promotion, with deductions, within IRC, of equipment and installation expenses, up to €40,000 per year. This PSD proposal is part of yesterday's recommendation from the report of the National Council for Environment and Sustainable Development, when it says: "In view of national and international experience, we believe that the tax benefits in the order of 30 % of the investment, in particular at IRS and IRC, will contribute to mobilising priority investments within 10 to 15 years. Do not keep on seeking. ” We therefore count on the vast majority of the Socialist Party to approve this proposal, which is a great incentive for Portuguese companies. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u181	You have the floor for an intervention Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u182	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. Jorge Mendes, had no intention of going beyond it. In any case, I would like to say that I fully share the concern that Mr and the PSD Parliamentary Group express, the importance of companies' investment in energy efficiency. In fact, this is one of the most important challenges we have and this crisis has shown that we have to make a great investment in this energy transition, but we all know that it will have costs. It will have costs for families, businesses and the state, and therefore we have to mobilize all resources that can be possible in this dimension. In the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ) we have own lines for this matter, but in the State budget we also have relevant measures. We have a tax investment to self-consumption, which is very important, and you are making progress on the possibility that there is a specific incentive, within IRC, for this matter. I would say that, at this stage, it may be redundant to talk about this subject, since we have at our disposal the tax incentive for recovery, which also has as eligible assets such investments. As you said, an investment which was not planned is needed, I would say that, as an incremental investment, you may even benefit from the 25 % deduction rate and not from the 10 % rate. Mr Deputy, agreeing to your concern—and the Government follows the concern of the PSD, in the sense that it is also important to encourage companies to make this investment—, I would like to tell you that from the Government's point of view at this stage this proposal is redundant, since there is tax incentive for recovery. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u183	To use the word about article 243. o — Legislative authorization in the area of income tax for natural persons, Mr Diogo Pacheco de Amorim, of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all reminded of the Cobrador do Fraque, a few years ago disappeared from the map. It remains its state version, with EDP (Energy of Portugal) charging the defenceless electricity consumers a fee, eufemistically called « contribution to audiovisual », and with everyone we feed this money-burning machine that is state television. Whether or not we see the RTP ( Radio and Television of Portugal ), whether we like it or not, we are paying it every month on the electricity account and without the possibility of knocking the door on the face of the payer, which is what you want to do. All in all, electricity consumers are obliged to contribute about EUR 200 million per year to audiovisual, i.e. EUR 1000 million every five years. The contribution to the audiovisual in the EDP account does not pass — let's be clear! — an irrevocable proposal made to the already heavily burned electricity consumers. Of irrevocable proposals we have all heard about, other eras, but they remain badly when they are made by the State. Therefore, and with the aim of its total elimination in the future, we propose that for the time being the exemption should be extended to more beneficiaries and at least proceed to be charged on the Cabo TV bill. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u185	For an intervention, Mrs Sara Velez of the PS now speaks on Article 247. o — Not updating the contribution to the audiovisual.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u186	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, RTP is certainly one of our greatest collective cultural heritages, essential for building our identity and, from its birth to today, a faithful depositary of our history and our journey, a guardian of an extraordinary archive on our collective journey. It is our Constitution which determines in Article 38 ( 5 ). the obligation of the State to ensure the existence of a public radio and television service, a service that ensures the right to information, education, cultural and civic training, culture, quality programming and a truly independent and plural agenda-setting, which is not dependent on commercial advertising rules dictated by hearings or other criteria. All I just stressed are requirements that only a public radio and television service can guarantee. The contribution to the audiovisual sector, which this Budget keeps unchanged and which some want to cut or eliminate—I do not understand well—is a guarantee of this quality and independence, which is always essential and that in times of crisis such as those we live is even more necessary. in my intervention, I would also like to address Article 249. the, in which we establish the maintenance of the extraordinary cultural mecenato regime, which favors support for cultural activities, especially in territories of the interior of the country. In 2021, legislative amendments have already been introduced to extend the basis of eligible entities – it has now included private for profit – and to reinforce increases and tax benefits for investment in heritage and cultural programming in interior territories, an exceptional regime which remains during the year 2022. I would also like to stress the very commitment of the Minister for Culture, at the hearings of the State Budget, to prepare a new status of the patronage, as envisaged in our Government Programme. Finally, I would also like to say that, in these two articles, we guarantee funding for culture. Funding RTP is, yes, ladies and gentlemen. Members, to finance our culture, in its promotion, in its dissemination, taking it beyond borders, to our diaspora, a fundamental role that RTP has always ensured. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, betting on the cultural machinery is to ensure that this budget continues to promote investment growth, year after year, in the cultural sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u187	Article 248. o — Special contribution for the conservation of forest resources will be made by Mr João Gomes Marques of the PSD, who has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, as we have been accustomed to, the PS Government, in its desire to raise money from taxpayers, tax and tax all that moves, which works well and produces in the national economy. And, once again, it has come to propose a — it calls eufemistically — special contribution to the conservation of forest resources. It does not retain any resources, as it is easy to verify. Yes, it is to penalise the wood derivatives sector, which has contributed to the economic growth of the country and employment. Sectors such as paper, furniture and cork, which place Portugal on the front of technological innovation and exports, will be highly penalized in natural competition with other actors, with other European and world players. It is for this and others who are already witnessing the relocation of important investments in this sector, particularly for Galicia. What about the forest owners and producers? They will always be the «bombs of the party», because at the end of the chain they are paying, because these costs reflect-CL- will be at the price of the raw material, at the price of the wood. This means more abandonment, more forest fires, more depopulation and more desertification of the interior. Mrs. PS members, common sense, interests of the sector and national interest require the withdrawal of this Article 248. the, and that is, of course, what the Social Democratic Party proposes here. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u189	To intervene on Article 249. o — Extraordinary cultural mechanism for 2022, Mr Luís Gomes, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u190	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the cultural mecenate is undoubtedly a fundamental instrument to finance the culture sector, a sector that has, moreover, been left behind by the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u191	There's a need for discharge!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u192	Otherwise, let us look at the figures I have here today to present to you: with regard to the budgetary implementation of the investment in the crop sector in 2021, we were only 10 %. The word given to the country and the culture sector in the previous elections indicated that there would be a greater weight of culture, up to about 1% of the State budget. Well, the budget we are discussing today is only 0, 25 % of the overall value of that document. Furthermore, a value less than 2015, less than the value presented in the State Budget in 2015, which places Portugal on the list of countries of the European Union which are less investing in culture. Speaking in the European Union and in Europe, still on 19 May last we were warned for the second time that we have not transposed the Community directives on copyright and related rights. In this respect, the PSD, which is a party that wants to value culture and that wants to make commitments to the European Union, will still present a draft resolution today with a view to implementing these Community directives. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u193	To intervene on the proposal of Article 254. o -A— Regulation of ecological public procurement, has the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u194	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, I would like to thank you from now on for the time available to intervene. With regard to green public procurement and taking into account the weight they also have in national GDP, it is essential that Portugal take steps to meet the objectives of sustainable development. at a time when we are discussing this tool, which is the State Budget, it is essential that we also talk about something which, from a structural point of view, has been outside this debate, which is precisely the achievement of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development objectives. We are precisely at least a decade from the implementation of this Agenda and, from an environmental point of view, it is very important that all efforts be made to ensure that, from the point of view of the promotion of short production chains, but also of the protection of habitats and ecosystems, Portugal takes firmer steps. That is why the NAP has put forward this initiative, which aims to ensure, and also to encourage, that public contracts give priority to ecological chains. Alongside this package of initiatives, I cannot fail to mention that the NAP has also presented a number of initiatives to preserve and encourage the habitats and ecosystems of forest and agricultural producers, because this is the only form of terms, in fact, an economy that is promoting a green economy, the energy transition that we have to make. More: Green economy does not have to be synonymous with a country's decline or underdevelopment. On the contrary, the development of the country will inevitably have to be measured by other metrics that not only GDP, starting with the preservation of our natural heritage, our ecological values and biodiversity itself, which are also part of the objectives of sustainable development. Only then can we be a truly competitive and future country. We hope, of course, that the other political forces will accompany us in this and other initiatives aimed at protecting our habitats and ecosystems, such as replacing lead with more ecological materials in hunting and fishing, or even preserving iconic species in our country, as is the case with the Iberian wolf.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u195	To intervene on Article 259. o — Complementary guarantee for childhood, has the floor to Mrs Cristina Sousa of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u196	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union adopted the recommendation on the creation of the European Guarantee for Children, with the aim of preventing and combating social exclusion but also safeguarding the rights of children, in particular in combating child poverty and in promoting equal opportunities. The Socialist Party and the Government in particular have the main objective of continuing to work against poverty, social exclusion and inequality. In difficult times like those we go through, in which children and young people represent the most vulnerable group to these phenomena, it is therefore essential to act in order to break the cycles of poverty and social exclusion from an integrated and persistent intervention. The Government has taken this design as one of its main pillars of political action and presents the guarantee for childhood, consisting of a set of measures aimed at strengthening support for the income of families with children and young people under 18 years of age. This State budget therefore incorporates a new measure aimed at children and young people at risk of extreme poverty, with a supplementary benefit to family allowance up to € 1200 per year. On the other hand, it is step by step to reinforce the family allowance for all children and young people of the first and second income levels, in order to ensure that, by 2023, they receive at least 600 € per year. In the continuity of an integrated policy of the guarantee for childhood, this State Budget also ensures that family aggregates with children and young people entitled to family allowance above the second step and that they do not get an annual value of 600 € per child or young person between the family allowance and the deduction to the collection of IRS receive the difference for this value. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, for the Socialist Party, this is the essential and indispensable investment to improve the lives of thousands of children and to provide them with a fairer future with more opportunities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is a budget with clear and objective measures aimed at families, children and young people, in particular those most vulnerable. This is a fair and inclusive budget in which people are in the first place. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u197	To intervene on the proposal of Article 260. o -A — Amendment to Decree-Law No 72 / 2017 of 21 June on incentives for the recruitment of young people and long-term and long-term unemployed, has the floor to Mrs Rita Matias of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u198	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, Members and, above all, Members of Parliament are for the rights of women, children and families; on Tuesdays and Thursdays they reject any proposal in defence of them, since — of course! — come from the point of view of arriving. I could not fail to point out that, in the week when we know that crimes of sexual violence have increased last year, this House rejected all the proposals of the Arrival in this area, particularly on crisis centres to support survivors of rape, victim investigations—to understand the actual number of victims of this crime, which, as you know, is still not reported—and even proposals for campaigns to combat sexual abuse of minors. I would even say that this is an absolute shame and hypocrisy, but I don't know if it's allowed to say this in this House anymore. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The Portuguese, at home, need to know who really defends the victims and who is next to the aggressor, for worrying only about political dividends and, above all, for the fear of approving proposals from the Arrival. Today, the gentlemen. Members will be able to show whether they are truly on the side of mothers, families and businesses, because we cannot continue to contribute to the postponement of the maternity decision, making it very difficult to reconcile family and work life.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u199	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u200	This is why the arrival proposes the exemption from payment of social security contributions to companies that hire women with children up to the age of 3. We must not penalize mothers, families, but we cannot continue to ignore companies and employers.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u201	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u202	It is urgent that we adopt life- and family-friendly policies. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u203	To intervene on the proposal of Article 260. o -A— Special rate on financial transactions for tax havens, has the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u204	Mr President, speaking in real shame, it takes a lot for a country to enter the Portuguese offshore list. It is not enough to be an offshore, it must be the worst offshore, it must reject information exchange agreements. The first question I would like to ask is: why is it even legal to take account of the Cayman Islands? Second question: since we have not yet illegalized this possibility, why do not the incomes that are received from offshore or offshore accounts be taxed? The proposal of the Left Block is that these incomes be taxed by 100 %. There'll be anyone who says it's a confidation. Yeah, maybe. But please say what is the valid reason for having money on the British Virgin Islands. If you would like me to explain to you the invalid reason for having money in the British Virgin Islands or in the Cayman Islands, I advise any Member of Parliament or Member of Parliament to attend a best of the committees of inquiry which this Parliament has done in the past. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u205	To intervene on Article 262. o — Amendment to Law No 50 / 2012 of 31 August, which approves the legal regime of local business activity and local participations, has the floor to Mrs Isabel Guerreiro of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u206	Mr. President, Ex.mos Srs. Members of the Government, Dear Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, the legal regime of the local business sector assumes that the local business is dominated by the pursuit of the public interest. However, as a business company, it may and should co-exist with the beneficial purpose inherent in the business management model, which means that legal and private standards should be used without losing sight of certain rules and principles of administrative law, which highlight transparency, information, financial control and balance of accounts. There is no place in this scheme either for the unrestricted application of private law nor for the unlimited extension of administrative rules. These principles assume their centrality in financial relations between companies, associations or foundations and their partners, the municipalities, as participating public entities, in particular as regards the meaning and scope of the balance of accounts, in particular as regards the meaning of the multiannual balance of operating results. This is why we should look at the amendments proposed by the PS. This is to say: the addition of the urban solid waste system to the multi-municipal systems, in the proposal of the Government, water and sanitation, as well as the exceptionality to the prohibition of participating entities, associations or foundations in cases where municipalities only have minority participations, in order to allow the allocation of financial support by the municipalities to such entities, thus relies on the principle of redistributive justice. The Socialist Party's proposals have been analysed and valued in this light, in these principles—on the one hand, the fulfilment of the rule of balance of accounts and, on the other hand, the improvement of the internal coherence of the legal regime itself—should be borne by these proposals. On the contrary, the proposals of the CFP must be rejected because they do not comply with those wishes. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u207	To intervene on the proposal of Article 262. o -A — Set up compensation measures for the recovery of procedural delays, Mr Mónica Quintela, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u208	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, an increased effort is required on a daily basis for the regular functioning of the justice system. All of us know that, after they have ensured the demands in the room, with trials and other trials, they have all the secretarial work to do and they still have to do the external service. The Government has promised to integrate the procedural recovery supplement into the maturity of the judicial officers, to be paid for 14 months. He promised, but he didn't do it, not to vary. It also failed to comply with the laws of the State Budget for 2020 and 2021, which, on a proposal from the PSD, adopted in this House, in this Assembly of the Republic, provided for such integration and set a certain time limit in its Articles 38. o is 39. the, for its conclusion. He didn't do it either. Justice officers feel very precisely disappointed in their legitimate expectations, and rightly so. Without prejudice to the integration of this supplement, it will be carried out at the heart of the review of the status of judicial officials, which is late and has not yet been completed, the PSD believes that it is of the most fundamental justice that this integration can be paid for for 14 months this year, like what happened with the compensation subsidy of the Members. Judicial magistrates and Mr. Judges of the Public Prosecutor's Office. That's what we propose. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u209	To intervene on the proposal of Article 262. the -A— Update of the Portal More Transparency, has the floor Mr. Bernardo Blanco, of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u210	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal I bring here today is very simple: the strengthening of the Transparency Portal, the portal on European funds. But first of all, I'd like to tell a very quick story. In these weeks of discussion of the Budget, three or four members of the Government and former members of the Government have now said to me the following: « Bernardo, you have to be content, the Portal More Transparency is a great achievement of the PS government. » This is false! There are a third of the Members who are new in this House, but the creation of the More Transparency Portal emerged from a proposal of the Liberal Initiative, approved only by the vote against the PS and at great cost. [[Applause from the IL.]] So, very briefly, I'm going to recapitulate the history of this IL proposal, because it seems that some people have been swallowed by their own propaganda and they don't remember. On 16 October 2020, only with the votes against the PS and with the abstentions of the CFP, the CFP and the ENP, the proposal for the creation of this Portal was dropped. After a month and a half, on November 24, the proposal was approved at budget headquarters, but on the previous day, it had been chumbed. However, fortunately, the Left Block voted in favour. On the following day she was a lawyer for plenary and was approved, because at the time, we had two non-registered Members who were not in the FOC ( Budget and Finance Committee ) and who approved the proposal in plenary. In other words, the proposal was adopted with 110 votes in favour and 108 against, with the exception of the CFP and only with the votes against the PS. The Government then came to say that it was a commitment from the Government Programme. It's fake and the press has come to lie. It was nothing. That is why the government has done so because the law requires it. Fortunately, the PS and the government, from 2020 to 2022, have changed their opinion and we welcome this. This reflection was made here and the position changed. In view of the large volume of European funds that we will receive, the Portal is increasingly important. Thus, what is proposed is very simple. On the one hand, we propose compliance with the law, because there are many things that are not yet on the Portal but are on the law, such as the effective beneficiaries, the actual level of execution of projects, etc. In fact, we have already asked several questions about this to the Prime Minister, who unfortunately did not want to answer. On the other hand, we propose some improvements — we know that they will not be done overnight by the government, but we have this understanding — such as the interconnection with other portals and reports, such as the Mission Structure « Recover Portugal ». These are improvements that have to be made over time and we understand that it will not be one month or two, but we say that by the end of the year they will be ready. In conclusion, Mr President, saying that the Portal cannot be used as an instrument of political propaganda, it has to be used as an instrument of political scrutiny. We have all the banks to vote in favour of this proposal today. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u211	To intervene on the proposal of Article 262. o -A— Prohibition of the accumulation of pensions by the holders of political positions and high public positions, has the floor Mr. Jorge Galveias, of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u212	Ex. Mr. President, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the legislation currently in force does not permit the accumulation of pensions by the holders of public and political positions of those beneficiaries, except for the President of the Republic, for the President of the Assembly of the Republic and for those who already had that right when the law was amended in 2005. This is a failure of the law, for which the Court of Auditors had already called Parliament's attention in 2018. Ferro Rodrigues, for example, receives a total of 6034 € monthly,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u213	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u214	... Armando Vara receives 8551 €...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u215	That one was arrested! It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u216	... and Jorge Lacão receives 7246 €. But you don't stay here. According to data released by the TSF, there are even more than 300 old politicians benefiting from life-saving monthly subsidies. In accordance with the Court of Auditors'call for attention, the Commission concludes that this kind of privilege directly affects the principle of equality as set out in Article 13. the CRP ( Constitution of the Portuguese Republic ), and also with the ethical-social principle of equity, when defining an unjustified privilege with a limited set of holders, is totally against these privileges. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It is not ignored that a problem or question of retroactivity of the law may be present, but it is a universe of deeply unjust situations that must be corrected. Having not approved this Parliament's proposal for a progressive increase in minimum pensions to the minimum wage, we consider it unacceptable for members of the political class, who should set the example, to maintain these privileges. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u217	To intervene on the proposal of Article 262. o -A — The National Body of Forest Agents has the floor of Mr Bruno Aragão of the Socialist Party. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u218	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u219	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u220	Mr President, Mr Bruno Aragon's intervention will be on another proposal for Article 262. o -A.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u221	It shall be on Article 262. o -A in general. Mr Bruno Aragão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u222	Mr President, it is only to reassure the Liberal Initiative, because it is not worth repeating the mantra of the lack of transparency or opacity that the Socialist Party may have in the management of the funds, in the way the funds are managed. The portal was in fact planned and even agreed with the NAP. But much more important than that: there are several international reports in which the Socialist Party has no influence whatsoever and which show how the funds in Portugal have been managed. We can't stop talking about this. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u223	In addition to this Portal, there are a set of other portals that are available to citizens and where much of this information can be consulted. There is one thing we certainly agree on: the possibility of continuing to improve above all the way in which people can read this data. That's really important. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in this particular area what we need is policies and measures, not repeated mantras to exhaustion. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u224	To intervene on the proposal of Article 262. o-B — Sustainable development objectives, Mr Rui Tavares, of the Free, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u225	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, dear and dear colleagues, we have reached the final arrangements and now is the time to start looking at the way we are doing and what we want to do here. A budget, as far as it is concerned about the environment or reaction structure at the economic moment, must not be an Excel leaf but a vision of where we want to come and of the steps that are necessary to reach it, not forgetting also the international commitments to which Portugal is obliged, such as the Sustainable Development Goals that we subscribe to with 192 other nations of the world, so that from now on, in each State budget, in addition to the objective of deficit or public debt, if we let record what has been done and what we intend to do to eradicate poverty, achieve quality education, gender equality, good institutions of peace and justice, the preservation of terrestrial and marine ecosystems, so that from now on also the State budget is our road map. Basically, this is, let us say, the basis for a true progressive policy. During this speciality process, when the Free got some concrete measures to be approved, we were told here: "Well, it's important, but it's trivial! When we sometimes presented vision and future measures, they told us: "It would be very nice, but it is impossible. The progressive policy is made of these two types of ideas, those that change life in the concrete of the day and those that allow us to have future debates. And the Free House is proud here, in Parliament, in this debate in the speciality of this State budget, to have left the mark that, in fact, we must all leave with our contribution to life, to the civic cause: to contribute to the world, the country and, now, more humbly, the State Budget for the months that remain in 2022 are better than we have found them.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u226	To speak on Map 4, you have the floor of Mrs Alma Rivera of the PCP. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u227	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, without surprise, this has again been a budget of decimal houses for culture. But behind the numbers there are always realities and meanings, and when we talk about State Budget are very concrete meanings and consequences in the lives of those who live in this country. And, in this case, there are thousands of cultural workers, there are so many structures of creation, public equipment, infrastructure, such as a public service, a social function, a constitutional right to create and enjoy culture, which continues to be reduced to very little. There are numbers that are of a solitary nature, but these that the government brings to the country do not need to be prime numbers, because they are the numbers of an abandoned sector, as abandoned is the idea of a strategy or public service so that culture is truly democratic. What the figures in this Budget tell us is that for the Government culture is an accessory activity in society that the PS wants and its workers must take the risk of working in this sector. For the PS 'it is not desirable' to put an end to the precariousness of the culture sector, as Mr Minister has also assumed. To survive in this area, the government believes that the law of the strongest, or rather the richest, must function, and this kills diversity, the freedom of the sector and makes culture not reach all the territory and everyone else. Mrs. Members, for those who work in the culture sector it is desirable to have a salary, to have a way of surviving. It is desirable that the structures have stability in funding, but what we have seen in recent days was that the PS does not pretend to know the difficult reality of the sector and, often assisted by the parties to its right, lead the proposals we have brought here, in support of cinemaclubs, regional orchestras, literary creation, circus activity; rejected the extension of the Guarantee Culture Programme and its reinforcement, so that it fulfils its objective and actually reaches the cultural fabric; it led emergency measures to cultural heritage; it led the opening of a new programme of support for museums; it rejected a national plan of archaeological work; it rejected the hiring of workers for public structures; and it revealed that its concern with the new generations is also around zero comma anything, when it rejected the proposal of the CFP to allow all young people between 12 and 25 years of age to have access to the ES programme. Culture' 18, having free access to cultural equipment and activities. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this Parliament is about time to amend its hand, it is about time to correct its accounts, because it can still approve proposals for strengthening funds for the Directorate-General for Cultural Heritage, for the Cinemateca, for the Institute of Cinema and Audiovisual, for DGArtes ( Directorate-General for Arts ). This Parliament, which is an absolute majority of Members, can still approve the duplication of the initial allocation of the culture budget in order to achieve a minimum of 1 % of the State budget for culture. In fact, it cannot be said that this House does not understand the importance of this 1 %, because it has adopted a resolution — which is based on a draft resolution of the CFP — exactly to reach that 1 %. In good rigour, it is only to meet the expectations of the sector and a resolution of the Assembly. Without funding, there is neither present nor future. Without more than zero commas there is no strategy beyond the degradation of what there is and of the contests that exclude necessary and important projects; without funding it is not possible a public service, because it is not recognized the collective interest of culture, universality, proximity, transversality to the territory, the regularity and continuity of the culture service, participation and democratic management. It is in your hands to prove that you do not look at culture as ornamental, reduced to the entertainment industries, but rather as an element of democracy, because there are no accounts that fail without development, human realization and cultural democracy. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u228	I now give the floor, for an intervention, to Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u229	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, three years! For three years, the Transparency Entity has not come out of the paper. This delay in custody, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this delay of government in complying with a law which was passed by Parliament in 2019 is not admissible. More, it's a terrible sign the government's giving out. If there is a matter that should be urgently realized, that means and implies it is this matter. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about an entity that has been created to monitor the income of politicians, to monitor the incomes of the holders of high public positions. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, with this proposal, the PSD intends to urgently strengthen the funds provided for in this Budget for the establishment of this entity. in this Budget, besides the entity has not yet left the paper, we witnessed a decrease of about 17, 4 %, i.e. less than 315 000 € for the creation of this entity. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD intends, with this proposal, to be effectively included in the budget the minimum funds necessary for the urgent installation of this entity, an entity that should already be working, Mrs and Mrss. Members, who should have been operational for at least three years. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, there cannot continue to be excuses for delaying the establishment of this fundamental body for the credibility of our democracy. It is essential to approve this budgetary reinforcement and to get this important supervisory body out of the way quickly. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u230	For an intervention, Mr João Montenegro, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u231	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, six years ago, the Government has not changed the audiovisual contribution, a position contrary to the position taken in this House last year by the then Secretary of State of Cinema, Audiovisual and Media, the same State Secretary who said that the RTP needed a strengthening of funding and that the Government would work in the following budgets to ensure these same needs. Also the President of the RTP Board of Directors last year in this House was taxing: « Without increasing funding, RTP will have to cut into the contents. Do not keep on seeking. ” Now, the government wants more and better public service, and free, balanced and plural public service, the government wants more and better, but then cuts in funding and support. And already in this debate the Minister for Culture said that he would reassess the proposal for the award of the new contract. We would like to know when this new contract will be signed and whether this new contract will increase the provision of public service. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u232	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we now have interventions on Article 1. the proposal for a State Budget Act. I begin by giving the floor to Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira of the PSD. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u233	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, in a budgetary process that is about to come to an end, there is no doubt that the absolute majority is even understood by the Socialist Party as an absolute power. After last Tuesday's episode, we have no doubt that now that this absolute power is necessary to impose its will, the PS will use it without hesitation, without hesitation, without hesitation. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u234	Now there is no agreement of gentlemen, parliamentary praxis or Regiment that prevents you from imposing your will. There are no rules that can benefit us! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this was a polluted and polluted budgetary process and the State budget that will come out of it is all the least expected of the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]] The Portuguese hoped that the State budget would mirror the environment in which we live, that it would respond to the war, that it would respond to inflation, that it would respond to the brutal increase in the cost of living, that it would respond to the needs of the economy and businesses. But what the Portuguese can expect from this budget is a fall in wages and pensions, a decrease in purchasing power, an increase in poverty, a decrease in the weight of wages in GDP and a impoverishment of pensioners, who are already among the poorest in the European Union. What the Portuguese can expect from this State budget is exactly the opposite of everything the Socialist Party has been promising the Portuguese in recent months in terms of incomes, but now it blows up to the side. [[PSD applause.]] If you ignore the galloping inflation this year without correcting properly ordered, pensions and social benefits is serious, Mr President, Mrs and Mrs. Members, to announce, triumphantly, urgent corrections for the coming years, when the State budget that is under discussion is for the current year of 2022, this is already lacking respect for the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]] What the Portuguese can expect from this State Budget is the continuation of the degradation of public services, which leaves more than 1 million and 200,000 Portuguese without a family doctor; that does not aim to defuse the demotivation of health professionals; that does not bet on the recovery of delays in learning; that does not combat permanent delays in justice, social security, the Service of Foreigners and Borders and so many other services of the State, because the Socialist Party continues to whistle on the side. What the Portuguese can expect from this State budget is the government's happiness with the result of their public policies on growth—yes, Mr. Secretary of State, I see this happiness in your face—,... [[Mr Pedro Pinto's laughs.]] ... the same policies that have led to GDP per capita in purchasing power in the past six years from 78 % to 74 % of the European Union's average, to which we grew on average by less than half of the remaining cohesion countries, policies that have put us among the seven poorest countries of the European Union. Yes, while Portugal sinks in the European Union's tail, the Socialist Party is blowing up on the side and therefore in recent years we have been overcome by Malta, the Czech Republic, Slovenia, Lithuania, and last year we have been overtaken by Hungary and Poland, and we are expected to be supplanted by Romania in a short time, which, please note, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. MEPs in 2002 were simply the poorest country in the European Union. What the Portuguese can expect from this State budget is to continue to feel the weight of the state in their lives, the same state that aims, for example, to raise more EUR 47 million in transit fines in order to finance their inefficiencies. What the Portuguese can expect from this State budget is to continue to be treated not as taxpayers, but as mere taxpayers of taxes, I repeat, as mere taxpayers of taxes. And it's not worth denying, ladies. Members of the Socialist Party, it is not worth denying it, because this is a budget that provides for a rate of growth in tax revenues higher than GDP growth, which establishes an increase in indirect taxes and does not fight inflation, but gains from it. The result of the policies of the Socialist Party is seen by all: in 2021, the tax burden was the highest ever, representing 35, 8% of gross domestic product, according to data from the National Institute of Statistics. Also in 2021, according to OECD, the tax burden on wages rose to 41, 8 %. For a government that is said to be left-wing, this should be a shame, I repeat, it should be a shame! [[Exactly! All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u235	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a bad state budget. The amendments tabled by the PSD, as we have always said, do not structurally change it, but they have the responsibility to improve the lives of families, businesses and all Portuguese, but so far they have all been repeated, all of them plunged by the compressor roll of the absolute power of the Socialist Party. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS Members' laughs.]] These are the proposals for updating the salary mass of the public service, updating the steps of the IRS, strengthening the institutions of underfinanced higher education, reducing waiting times in health units, national coverage of family doctors, implementing the network of continuous care and palliative care, increasing the number of beds in continuous care and palliative care, and could continue to give many other examples. This is a State budget which does not meet the current requirements and, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, a State budget that does not meet the requirements of the present is a budget that compromises the future of Portugal and Portuguese. As such, on the part of the PSD, you can only obviously deserve our vote against. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u236	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u237	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party can approve many studies, up to some programmatic rules, but this budget, which was already bad, has only become worse with the inflationary outbreak. It is a Budget that cuts income, by not updating wages, pensions, social benefits, by not updating investment at inflation rate. It is a Budget that confirms all the setbacks in the promises of the Socialist Party and the Government. The weight of wages in GDP will not increase by 2022. Housing shortages will not be resolved until 2024. Citizens will not all have a family doctor until the end of this term, on the contrary, they currently have fewer family doctors than they had a few years ago. This is a Budget that maintains unjustifiable injustices. It maintains the golden visas, maintains the regime of unusual residents, while refusing to lower energy VAT, a luxury rate which is paid by all people, irrespective of their income, regardless of the difficulty with which they arrive at the end of the month. This is a budget subject to an inadequate, unnecessary and self-imposed budgetary target, when European concerns are different. The European concern is to respond to the war, to respond to inflation and it is the Portuguese Government that imposes itself a European goal that goes beyond the demands. It is a Budget of the "we cannot live above our possibilities" and that is why it is so difficult for the right to criticize it. That is why the PSD is so disoriented that it has just proposed increases for public service and more investment for public services. This is the disorientation to which the PS discourse and right-wing policy lead the PSD. You see the PSD Member, right here now, saying that for a government that is said to be left-wing, it is a shame the Budget presents. It is necessary to see the PSD reveal this evidence to the Socialist Party. It is because this is a political and rhetorical budget that belongs to the field on the right, which does not respond to inflation, which maintains injustices, which breaks the weight of income in wages, which makes the life of those who work more difficult, who do not respond to public services, that the Left Block cannot support it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u238	For an intervention, Mrs Jamila Madeira of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u239	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Parliament is the budgetary authority. This is where this House is to be approved by the State Budget. This State budget, brought by the government in October 2021, grew up, was embodyed by the set of contributions of the negotiation that took place in October with the opposition parties. He grew up and had these contributions, which were materialized in this proposal for the State Budget. This State budget, however, was borne by the Portuguese on 30 January. The Portuguese agreed with the measures it incorporated, and incorporated, and ensured that the Government would have the absolute majority to implement it. However, it is important to stress what measures are in this State budget: measures to support income, to continue the guarantee of growth and increase in family incomes, supporting the continuation of pension increases, either by ordinary or by extraordinary means, for the seventh consecutive year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This budget continues the line of increase of the national minimum wage and the guarantee of increased family allowance, which has already enabled many and many families to have the necessary support to continue to support their children's growth. More than that, it is a guarantee for childhood, which means supporting the poorest of the poor — and we all know the relevant level of child poverty we have in our country — to ensure that no one is excluded or marginalized by situations of poverty. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Propaganda! Propaganda!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u240	This is the budget that thinks about people, but it also thinks about companies, with more than EUR 1300 million targeted for support to businesses, with a set of incentives that allow us to continue at present in international indicators, despite the economic crisis due to the war in Ukraine, to converge and grow far above the European average, already signalled at 5, 8 % compared to the other European peers. This is also the Budget which continues what we know is difficult, which is a response to a crisis that we do not know how long or how it will evolve, this crisis that no one wanted, that no one anticipated and that arises due to the war in Ukraine. But that is also why the Government has given a set of answers in this Budget, supporting the most vulnerable and those exposed to the evolution of the price of fuels, either supporting the companies most affected at the capital level by the use of gas, or supporting families, making available to the most vulnerable a casket of €60 or the amount of €10, in support of the price of the gas store. [[That's ridiculous!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u241	We have the notion that many measures will, however, have to be completed, but we can also add a measure promoted by this government, which is not in the State budget, but continues in the response to this crisis: the agreement that allowed to level the gas price limitation, to avoid contamination of the electricity price. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We all know the thousands and thousands of euros that this represents for businesses, families and municipalities. Unfortunately, I have not seen anyone in this House welcome such an agreement that is so relevant to all economic activity, to all the financial health of our society. Yes, this Budget does the exercise of continuing to converge and give social cohesion to our country, but it is also the Budget of the right accounts. [[CH's laughs.]] At all times, I repeat, at all times, this government said "yes, let's go further", but the dynamics of maintaining the right accounts, maintaining international credibility and maintaining the sustainability of our accounts to guarantee our future, to ensure that we have a social state when it needs it, is our goal. in this speech, which some refer to as « compressor roll », but which the Portuguese understand well that it is a very important support for their lives, the opposition forgets what has been approved in this House these days. During these days, although it has not been valued, for example, by the PSD,... [[Well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u242	... as you mentioned recently, it is important to say that all parties have seen their proposals analyzed with caution. [[CH protests.]] All parties have seen their proposals analyzed and appreciated with caution, in this dynamic of adding what is needed in the country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u243	in this sense, we can already say that more than 100 amendments have been adopted in this House,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Yours!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u244	... with the vote of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u245	Your proposals! What about the other people's proposals? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u246	This is very important, because the democratic spectrum of this Parliament has been completely suffocated within the framework of the democratic parties in this House, and it is very important to say so. For us, more important than episodes and cases is to ensure that the final solution of this Budget is better for Portuguese people, serve the interest of Portuguese people, contributes to further Portugal's growth. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We take account of every step we take, therefore, we give them with certainty and uncertainty, with ambition and prudence, but always, I repeat, always giving answer to what the Portuguese need, that is to continue to move forward, to make Portugal continue to grow and that its incomes, the social state, investment in health and education never cease to respond to those who need it most. So I wanted to say that some, on the one hand, cut taxes and, on the other, want more social status. We not only give no more taxes,... [[It's the biggest tax burden ever!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u247	...as, on the contrary, we relieve, with this Budget, taxes, at the level of IRS and IRC, as here, today, very well... [[All right!]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u248	Mrs. Member, a moment, please. Mrs. Members of the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party, the parts are regiment, but it is not possible to be systematically interrupting the speaker, because the parliamentary debate is thus damaged. Madam Member, please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u249	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is very important to realize the balance between reducing taxes and wanting more social status or wanting more support when this balance does not exist. What this budget seeks is to continue to strengthen the social state, while maintaining the dynamics of relieving the contribution of direct family taxes, which necessarily need to increase their available income. This is what was done, creating more steps of the IRS, creating the IRS Young, relieving those who need the most, even in deductions by the second child, that is, supporting those who need the most, supporting the middle class and those who need to have more income available. [[P.S.'s applause.]] No, we didn't increase the tax burden, sir. Ladies and gentlemen. We have made a number, and that number is very important, because the economy and society work together. That number is magical, I repeat, magical and, perhaps, the gentlemen. Members should remember - more often: from 2015 until today, the contribution of social security to the tax burden increased by 50%, Mrs. Gentlemen, 50%! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u250	Yes, it is a magical number, which shows that the economy has not stopped, that we have always been there and that all of us have been working together to keep Portugal moving forward. Yes, this is the way of the right accounts. Yeah, this is the way that nobody leaves behind. Yes, this is the way that Portuguese families, voting in the Socialist Party on January 30, said they wanted to. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u251	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u252	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present, first of all, thank you for giving up time. Regarding this Budget, one thing is certain: it is not the same thing that entered this Assembly of the Republic and it was undoubtedly one of the great concerns of the NAP, when, in October 2021, contemplating what was a political crisis that was already before us, we had the concern to give an opportunity for the Budget to be appreciated and discussed in the specialty and come out of here a different Budget that mirrored the vision of the different ideologies in the Assembly of the Republic. And this, above all, because we owe this to the Portuguese, since we told them that we would stop the economy, that we would actually confine the country, that we were facing an unprecedented pandemic, but we would be here to give answers. As a result of the dialogue that the NAP has proposed, and that we have achieved, through the negotiation with the Socialist Party and the Government, in fact this Budget has marks that distinguish it from the others, continues to the socio-economic recovery, to the fight against poverty, through the Housing First projects, from the projects of shelters for women who lack answers, when they have to leave their homes and have pets. But this budget also has environmental commitments, which it did not have so far. And we must not forget that, in addition to inflation, in addition to fiscal restructuring, it is essential that the fight against the climate crisis, the battle of our lives, should not be left behind. That is why, fortunately, we have achieved a reinforcement of more than EUR 20 million for public transport in the interior. Is that all we want? No, it is not, as we would like to go further, to not have the plan of recreation without other conditions, especially environmental, in sensitive areas, as there is a possibility to have. We would like, indeed, to have a greater review of the IRS steps and to put an end to tax bills to pollutant entities, but it is not yet in this Budget. But the truth is that with this Budget we also achieved a very significant reinforcement of the National Strategy for Active Mobility, which had only €400 000 and became EUR 1 million. And it's not just about being a working group or a mere study, it's concrete measures that make the difference in the route for energy transition and decarbonization. More: with regard to social concerns, we have achieved measures as relevant as expanding the network of breast milk banks throughout the country, which is fundamental to saving the lives of babies who are born prematurely. We have achieved, even in animal protection, that is so often behind, the 12 million euros that were approved yesterday, to which the 25 veterinary municipal doctors will be added, that this year have to be appointed as a concelerated veterinary authority, or even the 25 nature vigilantes, who will also have to be appointed, to, in a double way, safeguard the protection of biodiversity or the fight against fires. There are actually marks here that have the DNA of the NAP and we are proud of that. It is not the Budget that we wanted and does not go as far as we would like, but it is also not the PAN that is government, the PAN is part of that which is proportionality and representativeness in democracy. However, it was a process of speciality that settled on something fundamental: in work and in dialogue. That is why, in this budget, we can and do make a difference, regardless of whether we are one or many Members.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u253	For an intervention you now have the floor of Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u254	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the budgetary procedure has confirmed the Socialist Party's option of not responding to the problems. That is why the Socialist Party wanted the absolute majority, i.e. to refuse to solve problems that are currently affecting workers, the people and our country and that require answers, as the CFP presented in this discussion. For PS, priority is the reduction of deficit and debt, priority is the subjugation to EU taxation, even if this means not to value workers'wages, even if this means not to properly value pensions, even if it means not to ensure day care for all children, not to provide a family doctor for all users.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u255	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u256	I shall conclude by saying that the Socialist Party's refusal to approve the CFP proposals is responsible for the worsening living conditions of workers, for the worsening living conditions of reformers, for not wanting to fight speculative prices and for not wanting to face the interests of the economic groups. And this will mean worse living conditions for those who live from their work, for the workers and for the reformers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u257	Mr Pedro Pinto has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u258	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, listen here, in this House, Mrs Jamila Madeira, elected, as I, by the Algarve, to say that she has read the 309 proposals of the Arrival and that no one has served her, until she gets hurt. It is wrong for several things: it means that it is complicity of the tolls to continue on the Way of the Child ;...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u259	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u260	... means that it is complicit in the pediatric emergencies of the hospitals of Faro and Portimão continue to be closed at night;...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u261	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u262	... means that it is complicit by the increase of more than 30 % of unemployment in the last month in the Algarve. This is your complicity, this is what you have to give the Algarve an MP elected by the Algarve. [[Congrats from the CH.]] And I say more: we have heard the gentlemen here. Members, particularly Mr. Carlos Pereira, paint the country of wonders, say that the Socialist Party's budget is the budget of wonders. Tell this to 1 million and 300,000 people who are without a family doctor; tell people who are 1,000 days waiting for a consultation at the National Health Service; tell the Portuguese people that they have to choose between putting fuel or putting food on the table. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u263	This is the burden of the Socialist Party, this is the legacy of the Socialist Party, this is the budget that the Socialist Party has to give to the Portuguese. [[Congrats from the CH.]] And I say more to the Members of the Socialist Party: they leave an burden of 2 million Portuguese on the threshold of poverty! This is the Socialist Party's Budget! This is what the Socialist Party has to give to the country! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u264	Mr Rodrigo Saraiva has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u265	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are beginning to walk towards the end of the debate of this State budget in the specialty and, as the Liberal Initiative has already made very clear, it is clear that it is the speciality of the Socialist Party and that it is not the speciality of the Socialist Party. The Socialist Party's specialty is not giving Portuguese conditions to recover. The Socialist Party does not have a specialty to recover from learning, to recover from delays in health, consultation and surgery; the Socialist Party does not have a specialty to give the ability to regain purchasing power to the Portuguese; the Socialist Party continues to fail the Portuguese. And this is much more serious when this Socialist Party has in its hands what some refer to as 'basca' — the largest amount of European funds at its disposal — and has an absolute majority. And as much as they say there are international reports, there are also national reports that call into question transparency in the management of European funds. Since the beginning of this legislature they have given signs that everyone should be concerned about things that may seem smaller in the face of these millions that are coming here, but which are well exemplified by what each of the Portuguese has to worry about. For example, in that case of the ISCTE, the Socialist Party did not allow former Minister Manuel Heitor to come to the House to make the contradiction of what former Minister John Leon had said. In the case of Setúbal, with the willingness of Mr. President of the House of Setúbal to come to this House, the Socialist Party did not want this contradiction to be made clear. Therefore, the Socialist Party's specialty is not transparency; the Socialist Party's specialty is not giving Portuguese conditions to, for example, regain purchasing power. That is why we must all be concerned. They do not come there good times or come good solutions with this State Budget. The Liberal Initiative will be here to continue to call for more transparency and to examine an absolute majority that everyone should be concerned about. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u266	Mrs. Members, the Bureau no longer registers any requests for intervention and therefore the discussion on the speciality of Law No 4 / XV / 1 is concluded. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2022. Before giving important information about tomorrow's session, I give the floor to the Secretary of Bureau Maria da Luz Rosinha to inform the colleagues who, being in confinement, have participated in our work remotely. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u267	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the Members participated remotely. Deputies Filipe Neto Brandão, of the Socialist Party, and Francisco Pimentel, of the Social Democratic Party. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-26.u268	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, our meeting tomorrow has a number of items on the agenda and I would like to draw everyone's attention to the following: firstly, we will have a number of elections during the session for bodies outside the Assembly of the Republic; secondly, we will have the discussion of the rules of law and we will have two voting moments, i.e. the vote on the rules of law and, after the end of the debate on the speciality of the State budget, we will have the overall final vote on the proposal for a State Budget and the legislative votes. It is therefore important that all Members and all Members. Members are aware that tomorrow there will be two moments of verification of the quorum: the first, at the voting of the rules and the second, at the overall final vote of the State budget and the legislative votes. Good day to all. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 29 minutes.]]
