ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-23.u1	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Guests, very good day to all. The Solemn Evocative Session of the Approval of the Constitution of 1822 is open, which takes place within the framework of the commemorations of the Bicentennial of our Constitutionalism. [[It was 10 hours and 2 minutes.]] Let us proceed with the speeches. For the first intervention, on behalf of the Free Party, I give the floor to Mr Rui Tavares.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-23.u2	Mr President of the Republic, Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, Ex.mas Authorities and other dignitaries, Dear and Dear Members of Parliament: On November 1, 1755, as it is known, a earthquake destroyed much of this city. In the following years, an earthquake in ideas destroyed absolutism, when it became dominant the idea that, just as God did not send earthquakes to punish peoples, God might not send kings and queens to rule these same peoples. Alexander Hamilton, father of the American Revolution, was born in 1755. Robespierre, creature of Terror in the French Revolution, shortly afterwards. Maria Antonieta, to whom the same Terror cut her head, was born on November 2, 1755, one day after the Lisbon earthquake, but in Vienna. And, a year after it, also in Vienna, was born Gomes Freire de Andrade, one of the martyrs of the homeland, hanged as leader of our first — and failed — Liberal Revolution of 1817. But even before him, our first revolutionary leader—yes, a woman—was Leonor Fonseca Pimentel, head of the Republic of Naples, hanged for this in 1799. Born in 1752, she was also a daughter of the earthquake. And Manuel Fernandes Tomás, who is portrayed here right above us, with raised arms, ran out of work for our first constitution and writing works to explain it to his fellow citizens—it was our Hamilton, Madison and Jay concentrated on one person—who died less than two months after approving it. Reelected for the Second Courts, he was no longer a Member of Parliament. On the day of the takeover, his colleagues took him in a coffin to the cemetery. We must start teaching these people as people themselves, with their dreams, projects and ideals, and not just street names. Why were they and they willing to give life and die because of this Liberal Revolution? Because they had a new idea about nature — and that is where it all begins — politics and humanity: if God did not command earthquakes or put kings on thrones, then he would lead mankind to choose their own way. But these revolutionaries had more than new ideas. They had new ideas for old buildings. The Palace of Needs, where the Constitution of 1822 was debated, had been a convent; this Parliament where we are, a monastery; where was the Inquisition, after extinction, became the National Theatre. And if the Constitution of 1822 lasted only nine months, and it only came to force for another nine months after the September Revolution — September was the first movement that proclaimed itself from the left in Portugal — the truth is that even today we can see the explosion of ideas that this revolution caused, going here next to this Chamber, to the Biblioteca Passos Manuel, because the Septemberist Passos Manuel, when he arrived here, found it unthinkable that the Courts did not have a library, and more high schools, and conservatives, and so many new ideas for older buildings. Let us ask ourselves: what revolutions, what constitutions, what libraries of the future will make the children of the COVID-19, the return of war to Europe and the demonstrations against climate change that today and take them to the streets of this city? Everything depends on the democracy and freedom that we have been able to preserve, on the democratic constitution that we have been able to defend. New ideas will be theirs and theirs, but old buildings can treat us. I end up with a challenge. Now that thousands of students are coming to our cities to study in higher education and, during a period of war and inflation, can't find home, so that we can take in the thousands and thousands of square meters built and emptied in the center of so many cities—in particular military barracks—and turn them into at least temporary university residences? in doing so, we will not only combat inflation, scarcity and inequality, if we do it well, we will fight even greenhouse gases, but above all we will be preparing the old houses so that they can host the new ideas, as was done in 1822. So let's throw hands at this work. We knew we were worthy of those revolutionaries. We see them here every day above us; for then let them inspire us! [[P.S., PS.D. and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-23.u3	To intervene, on behalf of the Party Persons-Animal-Nature, I give the floor to Mrs Inês Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-23.u4	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Members of the Government, Illustrious Entities, High Authorities and Distinguished Guests, Mrs and Mrs. Members : Today we recall the 200 years of the approval of the Constitution of 1822 and the birth of the idea of democratic constitutionalism in Portugal. Before we begin the words we have dedicated to this ceremony, I cannot fail to express a word of solidarity and regret for Iranian women who, in a feature of democracy, in a feature of freedom and solidarity, have torn their daughters and manifested themselves in protest on the streets for the death of a young man only 22 years old. [[PSP, PSD, IL, PCP, BE and CH Member André Ventura applauded.]] They are gestures like these, which embody the courage, which remind us precisely the value of the Constitution that was approved 200 years ago and which was the beginning of a path by affirming the principle of equality. 200 years ago, where subjects existed, there were citizens, although women still did not have the full range of their rights, in a markedly patriarchal society. 200 years ago he won the end of the inquisition. 200 years ago we would still have to wait a few decades to abolish the death penalty and slavery, to put an end to noble-archic privileges or to achieve a secular state. 200 years ago we were far from reaching the social state, with the right to education, health, housing, social security, universal vote, workers' rights or political rights and women's emancipation, but a door of extreme importance was opened. 200 years ago there was an incontrovertible constitutional revolution that, as Miriam Halpern Pereira said, placed the past and the future on a crossroads, where the problems to be solved and the projects of change were faced. Today, we would like to remember legacy that this change left us: the Revolution of 1820, the Constitution of 1822, which can and should be a compass for change projects that must give solutions to problems to solve that remain 200 years later, in the middle of the 21st century. The first legacy of the Constitution of 1822 is the humanization of criminal law and prison law, achieved with the affirmation of the principle of proportionality, with the prohibition of torture and cruel or infamous penalties, such as the brand of hot iron, the barracks or prayers, with the requirement of clean, secure prisons and that they were not instruments of torture of prisoners. Remembering this legacy is especially important when, in this House, 200 years later, there are still those who want to establish chemical castrations, cutting hands or perpetual penalties, who want to deny the prisoner the right to social reintegration and the recovery of penalties, which is a principle of the dignity of the human person. More: there are those who still persist in doubts about the death penalty. To these we must say that they will not pass and that they are in contradiction with the history and the Portuguese constitutional legacy that we evoke today. We must say that your ideas belong to the past and that, for the sake of civilizational progress, there will continue. [[Congratulations from the PS, L and PCP MP João Dias.]] The second legacy is, as Professor Jorge Miranda states, "the precursor meaning of ecological concerns" patented in the assignment of planting trees to municipal chambers. With the extreme climatic phenomena and their consequences in view of those who want to see them, I would like to remind you, in this House, that the precursor character of the Constitution of 1820 is especially important not only because some liberals say that there is no climate emergency, but also because we see cameras replacing the green trees with concrete. In addition, we have a government which, Budget after Budget, insists on the allocation of tax bills to large pollutants and on a policy that does little to reduce the dependence of fossil fuels. In short, 200 years later, ecological concerns and the fight against climate emergencies must be at the top of each of us' agenda. The third legacy of the 1820 Revolution was a progressive and humanist view of animals. I cannot help but recall Passos Manuel, who observes us in the Lost Steps, because it was by his hand that we had the prohibition of death towers, and it was by Borges Carneiro, who is represented at the top of this Chamber, that the Courts discussed the prohibition of Tauromachic performances in Portugal, because they understood precisely 200 years ago that Tauromachic shows were contrary « to the light of the century and to the human nature». He said more, that it was “horrible to martyr an animal”. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Illustres Personalidades, in the person of Mr. President of the Republic, after a time of pandemic, war, inflation, I conclude by referring to the question posed by Manuel Fernandes Tomás, in a session of the Sanhedrin, on the eve of the Revolution of 1820 : « Will we remain like this or should we continue in this movement? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” More than conjure up the 1820 Revolution and the 200 years of the Constitution of 1822, we must remember and defend the progressive legacy that has been left to us and commit ourselves to use it always as an inspiring compass and guiding the way of the much that is missing to solve and transform into the present, so that we reach the civilizational progress that we have proposed to achieve 200 years ago and that it has taken time to be fully achieved. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-23.u5	To intervene, on behalf of the Left Block, I now give the floor to Mrs. Joana Mortagua.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-23.u6	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Presidents of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court of Justice, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Guests : We signed the Bicentennial of the first Portuguese Constitution which, although of fleeting existence, had enormous political, legal and historical value. In its initial drive, it did not end even a year in force, but remained the principle of the end of the Old Regime. The painting above this Hemicycle is an image of the Vincentian Constituent. This image remains today as the flag of popular sovereignty and equality before the law. That is the national legacy to which we lean. We can read, in the Constitution of 1822: « The nation is free and independent, and cannot be the heritage of anyone. It only belongs to making, by its fellow Members together in Courts, its Constitution or Basic Law, without dependence on the King's sanction. » In Article 9. we can read: “The law is the same for all. All this was deeply revolutionary, against the absolute monarchy and its caste privileges. He was even, until the revolutions of 1830, against the Europe of the Holy Alliance, a restorationist of post-French absolutism. It is true that this sovereignty founded in the nation was reduced to men with “sufficient income”, but it does not cease to be an unusual advance in the face of centuries of monarchy and domination of those who were above the law. It was the product of liberalism which was still the « left» of the time and, in the view of many historians, established a « republican monarchy». The real figure had no substantial intervention in public affairs and Parliament would be the new throne. This nuclear idea is recovered in the Constitution of 1838 and opens the way to the elimination of the monarchy and the establishment of the Republic in the Constitution of 1911. The emergence of a sovereignty derived from citizenship is a work, among others, of the Sanhedrin, which gathers from 1818, in Porto. A group of intellectuals and traders called themselves revolutionary activism and they assumed power, with the support of the army and of the people, with a view to the country. They idealized the Revolution of 1820, after the heavy bills of the Napoleonic invasions and the English protectorate. They had in their own name the message of their purpose. The Synod means, by the Greekest, the Assembly, like this one we are in. And, therefore, we must acknowledge the most outstanding of them all, Manuel Fernandes Tomás. He was the architect of Vintism and the Constitution of 1821. It has been shown in the configuration of the structure of the Constitution and its catalogue of individual and general rights. But here I point out what is rarely high: the fact that the majority of the Constituent voted for the extension of the right to vote to men employed and non-owners. Cito Manuel Fernandes Tomás :« The Congress, depriving workers of voting in elections, will put the Portuguese Nation in a worse state than it was before direct elections were established; thus, any Portuguese citizen will not enjoy the most precious right that man can have in society, which is to be able to choose the one to represent him. If you admit to the rich vote, why is there to be excluded what has nothing? Do not keep on seeking. ” Gomes Canotilho puts here the origin of an electoral law of January 1822, which would establish a right of suffrage tends to be universal, although it does not yet include female suffrage. In the Charter of 1826, this type of universal suffrage will be removed in favour of census vote, but universal suffrage, without social distinction or gender distinction, was a long journey that actually began in 1822. When we look at the painting of this Hemicycle of Veloso Salgado, it is Manuel Fernandes Tomás that we see in the use of the word, but we also notice in the ecclesiastical who presides over the work, the Bishop of Bahia. And there was the biggest crossroads: what Brazil? The Constitution was intended to be the Basic Law of the United Kingdom of Portugal, Brazil and Algarves. This colonial projection was still curated in Vintism. King John VI was in Brazil and had been intimidated to accept either the return to Lisbon or the result of the Constituent, which he did, although with hidden intentions. Even before the formal acceptance of the Constitution by the monarch, on 1 October, Regent Pedro declared the independence of Brazil. It was the end of the United Kingdom. The Braganças reacted to Vintism not wanting the recolonization of Brazil (in the meantime elevated the kingdom), nor that in it the power of agrarian aristocracy and slavery, which was class oppression. The independence of Brazil, over which they also spend 200 years, was the rejection of Vintism. It is true that the Vincentian Constitution was not free of guilt; it implicitly admitted the existence of slaves in the colonies and the slave trade in which the Brazilian economic system sat. But it is no less certain that the independence of Brazil, despite having been loved by many, including by the black abolitionist movements, maintained the power of the slaves. This sense of incomplete independence would be, 60 years later, translated by Joaquim Nabuco as « the desire to unite Brazilian abolitionists in a single legion to hasten, even if it is one hour, the day on which we see the independence completed by the abolition and Brazil elevated to the dignity of free country, as it was in 1822, that of a sovereign nation, before America and the world». Returning to Pedro, today so celebrated, he soon dissolved the Brazilian Constituent because he did not like radical liberalism that profiled the representatives of the Brazilian people and granted a Constitution to the Brazilian Empire. Pedro I do Brasil wanted to repeat the same process in Portugal with the imposition of the Constitutional Charter, rejecting the Constitution acquis of 1822, but lost power for absolutist restoration. It should be remembered that there can always be a "vilafrancada" to end democracies. He notes, overcoming counterfeit propaganda and today much in vogue, that Peter was hostile to any ideas of popular sovereignty, and may believe that he was of the heart. The Constitution of 1838 was no longer granted by Queen Mary, but accepted and respected by the saying. Peter had no other remedy but to contemporate with the liberals in the civil war against absolutism, or he would have no other means to see his daughter on the throne. However, this meant that in European Portugal it had finally ended the monarchy of divine law. Unfortunately, not in Brazil, where the Empire will fall only in 1889, months after the abolition of slavery. Other illustrious 20ists left their names in the Constitution of 1821 as Borges Carneiro or Ferreira Borges. All were pioneers of the Republican left and Portugal that we are. The radical liberalism of the 19th century moved to republicanism and to democracy that would have to overcome other moments of backwardness in Portugal. The recovery of popular sovereignty ideas is an ever-present challenge when we witness the emergence of political and economic directories granted—and that is the word—by international treaties, without any direct decision of the peoples. Finally, we pay a final tribute to the memory of the Constitution of 1822 : it creates the public school for boys and girls everywhere in the territory. This was the most material immaterial horizon that was left there in a new Portugal. [[Congratulations on BE, PS and PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-23.u7	To intervene, in representation of the Portuguese Communist Party, I now give the floor to Mrs Alma Rivera.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-23.u8	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Presidents of the Supreme Court of Justice and the Constitutional Court, Illustres Invitados, Sr.as and Sr.s. Members: We commemorate in this session 200 years of the first Portuguese Constitution, constitutionalism, a history of advances and retreats, the desires of the Portuguese people, their participation and their rights won by pulse. But a careful look still confirms that it is not possible to walk back the wheel of history and that what is innovative goes on to expire, which is revolutionary goes on to the conservative, which is an element of progress becomes an agent of retrogression. And always, the classes placed in their domination sought to correct accounts and regain power. Born of the 1820 Liberal Revolution, influenced by the French Revolution, transporting the innovative and revolutionary ideal of confrontation with the expired political, economic and social structures of monarchical absolutism, the Constitution of 1822, drawn up by a predominantly representative Constitutional Courts of the bourgeoisie, as an ascending social class, included in its text the liberal principles of then: the principle of national sovereignty (which is based on the nation and not on the king by divine grace) ; the principle of political representation, with a legislative power exercised by a single chamber, elected by direct and secret suffrage, although strongly censory, without the participation of women, children under 25 years of age, children-family in charge of parents, of servants, vadiums and members of monastic orders; the principle of separation and independence of powers, according to the non-classical separation between the legislative power, the executive power and the judicial power, vincing the idea of non- This new organization of power and the individual rights enshrined — freedom of expression, ownership, equality before the law, the abolition of cruel penalties, equality in admission to public office, the idea of a minimum education for young people of both sexes — all these rights were strongly opposed by the absolutist reaction, which was not late for the strike of the Vilafrancada, aiming at the restoration of monarchic absolutism. The grant of the Constitutional Charter by D. Pedro IV, ending a period of constitutional indefinition, not being able to suppress the idea of constitution and representation, restored the monarchical constituent legitimacy, giving it a moderator power that nullified the rest. This new text greatly restricted the right to vote for the House of Deputies, limiting it to the most stocked, the elections went indirect and a House of the Aristocratic Basic Peers was created. The following Constitution, of 1836, despite the result of the September Revolution, in which the action of the popular masses was decisive, ended up being drafted by the triumphant forces coming from the small and medium-sized ascending bourgeoisie, finally reconciling aspects of the Constitution of 1822 and the Constitutional Charter. New fundamental rights have emerged: freedom of association, freedom of assembly and right of resistance. But the vote, although now directly, remained limited to those who possessed it. It was also a little hard sun. As for the people, he remained armed with political power, but did not silence the revolt. from Patuleia to Janeirinha to the final estertor of the monarchy, with the rise of the workers' movement and republicanism, the monarchy soed with the 1910 Revolution. With the Republic, new Constitution. But the social basis that determined it did not participate in the Constituent Assembly and was thus brought by the republican power, exercised by an elite of notable, liberal and hostile to the workers' movement. The Constitution of 1911, bringing important progress, from the beginning of the abolition of the monarchy and the titles of nobility, the separation between the churches and the State and religious freedom, among others, did not fail to reflect its class nature, and in particular refused the right to strike. With the rise of fascism, the new Constitution was written under the direction of Salazar. The plebiscite, without public freedoms or discussion of alternatives, of compulsory voting for family heads who could read and write, which was not even secret and in which the abstentions were counted as votes in favour. It was 48 years of fascist dictatorship, of liquidation of the most basic freedoms, of fierce repression over those who aspired to a better life, but 48 years in which the people fought and accumulated forces, which broke down in the April 1974 Revolution. And it is with this revolutionary process that something absolutely innovative is being done in our constitutionalism: of the Revolution a Constituent Assembly was born in which this people had a voice, a Constituent in which all citizens over the age of 18 were able to vote in free and democratic elections, with proportional conversion of votes into mandates. unlike other revolutions, in its innovative time, April was at the bottom of the economic structure of society and changed it, reflecting in the Constitution the achievements that, in the streets, in the companies and in the fields, were always reached the pulse, always with reactionary opposition. What is in the 1976 Constitution came from the force of the people who wanted, in their Basic Law, a project of the future, a society without exploitation, based on justice and equality. Despite the various revisions that have mutilated it, our Constitution, the Constitution, is a common reference for all those who defend freedom and democracy, economic, social, political and cultural rights, the right to work, health, education, social security and protection in disease or old age. Without parallel in previous Constitutions, these are rights of great present and sense of future that it is important to comply and not allow to succumb, as those who have done everything against their application and who now want to ransom them, tearing down the Constitution itself. in a time when liberalism is intended to be reintroduced, in modernity, it is good to remember that what was new is now out of date. What 200 years ago was progress today is an ideal of retrogression, of deepening inequalities and corresponds to the desires of those who have never complied with the transformations of April and its Constitution. He wrote the poet that «there is only real freedom when there is peace, bread, housing, health and education». The rest is history, because the future will always be built with the strength and will of change of workers and people. [[PCP, PS, BE, PAN, L and PSD Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-23.u9	To speak on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo has now spoken.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-23.u10	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, High Civil dignitaries, Military, Religious, Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Ex.mos Guests : I propose to you all a journey in time. I propose that we go back until 1822, I propose that we try to remind you that this country was in 1822, that the environment was in existence on 23 September 1822, when, in the Courts, gathered not here but in the Palace of Needs, the first Portuguese Constitution that today, here, is celebrated. By the way, I propose that we examine whether there are parallels between Portugal of 1822 and Portugal of 2022. Can we learn from history? In 1822, Portugal had been rid, a few years earlier, of external juices: Napoleon's invading army and Beresford's regent army. In 2022, a few years have passed since we were relieved of the external tutelage of the troika, which the PS brought to Portugal. In 1822 Portugal was plunged into a deep economic and social crisis, with the economy in collapse, in such a way that many questioned the continuity of our national independence at the time. In 2022, Portugal again had the stagnant economy, via a hegemonic PS, which has no idea how to make the country grow. In 1822, the people, traders and industrialists complained of the asphyxiation caused by excess taxes. In 2022 Portugal once again suffers from the same suffocation: it beats, every year, tax records and presents, which is even more serious, one of the highest tax effort rates in Europe. In 1822, Portugal depended on the wealth that came from outside, the overseas territories and, in particular, Brazil. In 2022 Portugal still depends on wealth that comes from outside — it is not generated by itself, but by other European peoples who finance the structural funds. It is sad to see the cruelty of these parallels, as if Portugal had been looking for a path of development 200 years ago. There is too much evidence that we do not learn from history. This situation, in the 1920s, was a cause of deep dissatisfaction and widespread despair. It was inevitable that something would have to break or change if Portugal wanted to remain independent. It was a handful of convinced liberals, led by Manuel Fernandes Tomás — who here is illustrated, on the vest of Veloso Salgado — who, from the invicta city of Porto, began the Liberal Revolution of 1820, a revolution that did not deserve a solemn session in this Parliament. One cannot overestimate the courage of these men of the Sanhedrin, because a few years earlier, precisely because of their opposition to existing absolutism, General Gomes Freire of Andrade and another dozen martyrs of the homeland had been executed. The 1820 Liberals knew that they risked their lives because they wanted to regain national independence and bring the Court back from Brazil. But above all, the Liberal Revolution was a cry against the tyranny of the aristocratic, economic, religious elites and the divine and absolute power of the king. The Constitution that the Revolution has promised to elaborate and that today, here, we celebrate would be the formalization of the liberal principle that power belongs to people, to the nation, not to the king, to the divine or to the State. The highest importance of the Constitution of 1822 is that for the first time in the history of Portugal, the most sacred of liberal principles was written: power belongs to people. For this reason, the text begins with the individual rights and duties of citizens. In Article 1. it is stated that the Constitution aims « to maintain freedom, security and property for all Portuguese people», which brings us echoes of John Locke, one of the fathers of liberalism that I also use here to evoke. In Article 2. the, which deserves to be quoted, it is said that « Freedom is not to be forced to do what the law does not command, nor to cease to do what it does not prohibit». For a liberal, who is suspicious of who commands and does not like whom he forbids, this is a particularly beautiful formulation with even greater meaning. Articles 5. it's 6. they establish the right to property and the right freely available to it. Article 7. it protects freedom of expression and also responsibility for its use. throughout its text, the Constitution of 1822 establishes for the first time a set of liberal principles, such as the separation of powers, the right of political representation, though quite limited, and the principle of decentralization, a defense of municipalism, described as "The economic and municipal government of the councils will reside in the Chambers". It was good to revisit this article 218. that of the Constitution of Height. The Constitution of 1822 has been in force for only nine months at first, but has changed Portugal forever. Its approval irreversibly shaken the real power and structure of the Old Regime, but did not change the state apparatus. Like today, the true and lasting transformation of Portugal depends on the modernization and dispartition of the state machine. This transformation, I admit, is capable of taking longer than the nine months and more than the three years the Liberal Initiative has been present in this Parliament. Those who think they are owners of April 25 may find it strange that I say here, with joy, that the liberals are neither owners nor the Liberal Revolution of 1820, nor the Constitution of 1822 which resulted from it. His principles and his spirit are the inheritance of all Democrats. However, and with the same joy, I say that the Liberal Initiative is indeed a proud and courageous heir to the spirit of progress, freedom and non-conformity against hegemony and stagnation. Today and always, for everyone's sake. We cannot wait any more than 200 years, no more than 200 months, no more than 200 weeks to be able to say again that Portugal has changed, which has made a leap forward, which has progressed and has become a more liberal country, once again, today and always, for everyone's sake. [[IL applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-23.u11	To speak on behalf of the party, I give the floor to Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-23.u12	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Guests, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Civil Authorities, Military and Religious: Today, we celebrate 200 years of Portuguese constitutionalism. Today, the words that echo in all those who, in a phase of life, have devoted themselves to these matters are the limits and the walls against the power of the State. What we celebrate with constitutionalism is the barriers created, developed and implemented by the peoples, against the abuses of those who wanted to take away all rights. « We, the people», we, the people, raised ourselves and raised barriers to prevent the state from taking away our rights. This would be the beautiful history of constitutionalism, but it is not the beautiful history of Portuguese constitutionalism. It would be the beautiful history of theoretical constitutionalism and constitutionalism that swept the world in the 18th and 19th centuries and in the early 20th centuries. But Portuguese constitutionalism does not have this beautiful story. If the previous speaker, in this rostrum, said he wanted to do a historic exercise, I also wanted, not until 1822 or 1820, but to this day, with the Portuguese accompanying us, to follow this Parliament and to ask it at home today: "What the hell are they all doing there? What are they arguing about? What country, what world and what future are our representatives discussing there? Yes, those who have been elected by us, chosen by us, to whom we pay the salaries, are today gathered in a plenary chamber to discuss what? """"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""" Today, we discuss, praise and thank the limits of this power, and perhaps so, many of the paintings we have in this House evoke one of the greatest principles of constitutionalism: the separation of powers. And never like today's separation of powers was so much at stake. Mr President of the Republic, as the principal guarantor of the institutions, as the principal guarantor of our democracy, never as today, in our constitutional history, the powers and their separation were so at stake. They were concerned when, still this summer, the government wanted to withdraw from one of the criminal police and the Public Prosecutor's Office the control it had in access to international information. They are at stake when the government insists on controlling criminal investigation or using State institutions against its opponents. They are at stake when a finance minister leaves and goes to the regulator, the Banco de Portugal. What would the judge of the people John Alves say if someone told him, in the 19th century, that the finance minister would then be governor of the Banco de Portugal? But the separation of powers is deeply involved when an absolute majority government feels that everything can because no one has the ability to control. Therefore, « We, the people», we, the institutions, but also the President of the Republic, the President of the Assembly of the Republic, have this fundamental duty to say that in the 200 years of our constitutionalism, when the Government falls half an absolute majority, it does not have all power, the government has to see limited its power and that power always belongs to the people and never to those who hold it at a given time. The principle of equality, which our Constitution would then re-establish and deepen, is also one of the achievements of liberalism. What these men and women would say if they came to the time we were today, if they were to come to the moment we lived. Today, we live at a time when equality is echoed as if it were a universal principle, it is said as if it were almost a data acquired for everyone and for everyone to feel with the same rights but without the same duties. The Portuguese at home know what I'm talking about. We have created a Republic of those who think they are entitled to everything without having any duties towards their fellow citizens. We have created the Republic of those who have the right to receive every day, but never have the right to pay anything or to work. This equality, which the Liberals did not support, should be remembered today, in this so liberal phrase: we can receive, but we must also work to do so. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It was nice that they also remembered these phrases today, and not empty phrases about what was the Constitution of 1822, the Revolution of the Claws and all a wonderful world that followed him and that those who are seeing us at home know that it is not true. We can always tell 1,000 lies to the Portuguese, but they know it's not true, because they feel them every day in their lives. They feel every day what they have to pay to go to work, they feel what they have to sustain, they feel what it is to have no money to pay the children's books, they know what it is to have no money for gas oil. This, they know. In 1822 they didn't know, but today they know. As we laugh at the Portuguese people who are at home and cannot afford gas oil, remember the question I asked at the beginning: “What the hell are they there celebrating today? Yeah, the day I can't pay my kids' expenses, what the hell are they celebrating? The day when there's no money to put in the national health system, what the hell are they celebrating there? On the day when there is no money to give a decent increase of inflation to pensioners, what the hell are they there celebrating today? Do not keep on seeking. ” We must not forget this question, because we are not here for any divine grace or for a historical mission, we are, because our compatriots have chosen us. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Members, the right of ownership was one of the great achievements of liberalism. All the great authors of liberalism define it as the center of liberal thought, and never as today the right of property was called into question. When we have a tax burden that destroys half the Portuguese income, when you beat the historical record of tax burden last year, how does no one get here and says that today the right of property is at stake? Oh, my God! The government, at the first time it has, throws more taxes on the Portuguese, as the kings did, in the time of absolutism: whenever necessary, they applied more taxes on people. When we remember liberalism, we must remember those who are destroyed in taxes, who are naked and can no longer pay. « What the hell are they celebrating today? Today, that I have no money for anything else, what are they celebrating? Do not keep on seeking. ” The property has never been as concerned as it is today. It has never been so at stake, when small businesses, small entrepreneurs, cannot keep up with the surface, with a state that takes everything away from them and does not pay them anything at all, with a state that has one of the biggest tax burdens in Europe and that last year has beaten the gross record of tax burden. Poligraphers aside, this is the truth that the Portuguese know, when they ask themselves: "What are they celebrating today, in the Assembly of the Republic? Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, I have heard you this morning saying that freedom of the press was one of the major areas for the celebration of liberalism. And it is freedom of opinion, freedom of the press, that we can have scrutiny and follow-up. But where is this freedom of expression, when the government is trying to gradually numb those who should have free opinions? Oh, my God! Where is freedom of opinion, when some media agencies take as populists and liars some and as responsible and other statesmen, even if the latter are responsible for the state in which we are today? [[Congrats from the CH.]] Where is this freedom of opinion and of the press that we had been promised and that liberalism sought to safeguard, when in a large part of our press line we have the same political area to dominate, to comment in the morning, while others, much more representative in votes, are protected from this? Oh, my God! What would Colonel Sepulveda say about this? It was interesting to know what I would say about the state to which the country arrived today. Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, we can always apologize for failing, we can always say that the constitutional project has not yet been implemented. As our colleagues in the extreme left wing say: « there is no need to carry out April». In fact, Portuguese constitutionalism is lacking when we look at it and all its aspirations in a free country, in a prosperous country, in a country where citizens deserve what they have, in a country where citizens have to contribute, but at the same time feel that the State is there for them and not for the same as ever. Our constitutionalism needs to be respected. Of course we can always have excuses: it was not fulfilled because of the pandemic, it was not fulfilled because of the crisis, it was not fulfilled because of José Socrates, it was not fulfilled because of the troika, it was not fulfilled because of the Rabbit Pass. We can always say that, but once again, remember that those at home know why we are here. We can always apologize, but, you know, one of the great men of constitutionalism was Benjamin Franklin. When he died, the Portuguese Liberal Revolution had not yet occurred, but he said this phrase that we should always remember: « those rulers who are very good at making excuses are almost never good at doing anything else. Do not keep on seeking. ” The history of constitutionalism is the history of our failure and our ineffectiveness. The history of our constitutionalism is also the history of the failure of April and the history of the failure of what we promise the Portuguese. It is not the failure of any political project, it is our failure as a society. As long as there is a Portuguese in this country, which cannot have dignified living conditions, we failed April, we failed constitutionalism and we failed liberalism. While those who are seeing us out there continue to keep the same question—"what the hell are they celebrating there? » — it is because we all failed, as a country. We can say whatever we want, but the fight for a better country can't stop. My friends, it is certainly no constitution that will stop it, because it is in the people and only in the people that resides the sovereignty of Portugal. [[Ch's applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-23.u13	To speak on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, I now give the floor to Mr Alexandre Poço.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-23.u14	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Members, Civil Authorities, Military and Religious, Mrs. Members of the Government, My Ladies and gentlemen : on this very day, 200 years ago, Portugal took one of the most important steps in its recent history. If in the crisis of 1383 - 1385, also with a strong popular movement, we assured the continuity of Portuguese independence and in 1640 we restored this right to independence, 200 years ago, in 1822, the Portuguese conquered power to the absolutism of ancient Portugal. In good time, therefore, this House decided to highlight the fundamental importance of the 1820 Liberal Revolution, the first Portuguese Constitution and what it symbolizes for the construction of modern Portugal, which it deserves from the PSD Parliamentary Group, a warm, enthusiastic and convincing greeting. The meaning and meaning of the Constitution of 1822, although they go unnoticed in our public space, deserve a deep debate, with more implications for our daily life than many dare to think. To celebrate the Constitutional Courts is, above all, to celebrate the fundamental idea of freedom, forever enshrined in national conscience, regardless of all the political and constitutional vicissitudes of the last 200 years. With the Revolution of 1820 and this first Constitution, Portugal redefined itself politically as a State based on the sovereignty of the Nation — not the monarch — based on all the liberal and democratic principles that form the foundations of modern Portugal. It was therefore an authentic movement of national liberation and a refounding of our political, economic and social system. Today, 200 years later, we can say that there is one before and after 1822. The Constitution of 1822, advanced and progressive as it was, marked decisively what is today our representative and liberal democracy. Despite the short periods in which it was legally in force, as has already been said, it had a profound influence on institutions and public law, beginning in Portugal in the happy formula of Prof. Joaquim de Carvalho, « the legal organization of democracy ». it enshrined the principles of popular sovereignty, political representation, separation of powers, legal equality and respect for personal rights and freedoms. Sovereignty began to reside, essentially, in the Nation, exercised by the legally elected representatives, in accordance with the principle of the separation of legislative, executive and judicial powers, thus breaking down with centuries of absolutism, which concentrated all power in the figure of the king. That's right, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who fear and progress, the novelty and radicality of the solutions at the time established by the 20th-century constituents naturally aroused the momentum for a more exacerbated reaction of the conservative factions of Portuguese society, which for a long time have violently rejected this modern Portugal, on behalf of the former Portugal. But it is also fair to state that, from 1822 onwards, even in the worst and darkest moments of the last 200 years, the idea that it is the sovereign nation has never been erased again, and that it is the nation, the nation, who decides who has power and with what limits this power is exercised. Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. and Mr. Members: Today, 200 years later, in a world so different from the 1822, what lessons can we learn from this Constitution, from this distant date to the challenges of the present and the future? We can focus on several of the important articles and principles of our first constitutional text and we will soon see that its realization and implementation remains as urgent as it was before. And this, precisely, in order to be able to have a prosperous and developed country, a country that, despite so many threats, despite the time of war, always seeks to give our citizens quality of life and rights. This legacy, which is the legacy of the rights and power of citizens, can be summed up by the strong, clear and unequivocal message of Article 27. the Constitution of 1822: « The nation is free and independent, and cannot be the heritage of anyone. Do not keep on seeking. ” Whether because of lack of action by the democratically elected powers or by the factual powers which, apart from the political institutions, exert excessive influence on them, we once again reaffirm in 2022 that the country has no owners and that respect for the fundamental rights of Portuguese is, today, in many areas, at risk or far from being guaranteed in concrete life. 200 years later, in 2022, a free and independent nation like the one we want is that in which the right to health has to be safeguarded for all citizens and in which access to health care is always much more important than sterile ideological theimosias. 200 years later, in 2022, a free and independent nation like the one we want is the one in which no one can challenge the right to social protection and solidarity in old age, whether in the present or in the future. 200 years later, in 2022, a free and independent nation like the one we want not to mortgage or ignore the legitimate ambitions of the new generations to build their quality of life project in Portugal. 200 years later, in 2022, a free and independent nation like the one we want does not allow important parts of the national territory to be abandoned and devastated by forest fires, without responsibility and despite constant promises. 200 years later, in 2022, a free and independent nation like the one we want cannot allow the feeling of capture of the State by private, sectoral or corporation interests, which undermine the confidence of the Portuguese, which require, yes, transparency and a real and effective fight against corruption. 200 years later, in 2022, a free and independent nation like the one we want for a State that trusts people, who believes in the private initiative, which ensures that the country does not run on the basis of the State alone and always the State, who believes in the potential of each Portuguese and who, above all, wants to overcome the chronic delay that condemns 2 million and 300 thousand Portuguese people to live every day in poverty. 200 years later, in 2022, a free and independent nation such as the one we want scrupulously respects the separation of powers, preserves freedom of the press, never allowing any conjuncural majority to block or question the rule of law. 200 years later, in 2022, a free and independent nation like the one we want, whatever the environment it is, has no owners and is no property of anyone. Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. and Mr. Members : We could choose many lessons, but we prefer to choose this one. The lesson of the Constitution of 1822 is only what we understand today to evoke. Portugal is no property of anyone, whether public or private, whether legal or factual. Portugal is of the Portuguese and their freedom. Long live the Constitution of 1822, live the Constitution of 1976, live Portugal! [[PSD applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-23.u15	To speak on behalf of the Socialist Party, I now give the floor to Mr Rui Lage.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-23.u16	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Members of the Government, Illustre Entities and Personalities present, Mrs and Mrs. Members: on this occasion when we recall the dawn of Portuguese constitutionalism it is inevitable to return an instant to the time of the Liberal Revolution of 1820. It was, after all, in its brief light that the forge of the Constitutional Courts was lit up in which our first fundamental law was shaped, a truly innovative document, although it was a late fruit in Europe of liberal revolutions. If in the formula of the distinguished historian Joel Serrão «it is by speech that all revolutions begin», the first word of this speech was the word "freedom" and it was in the port that the country first listened to him. The 1820 Liberal Revolution is therefore tasted with the spicy history of being our only decentralised revolution that was settled in triumph. With our first constitutional text, adopted just two centuries ago, came « free communication of thoughts», separation of powers, legal-formal equality, extinction of inquisition and abolition of torture, respect for individual freedom and property, a representative government and, of course, universal vote by suffrage, although severely amputated in its scope at this time. It is from the books that the official project, such as its bases, drank in conjunction with the Spanish Constitution of Cadis and also in the Declaration of Human and Citizen Rights, despite the constituent parliamentarians wanting to present as the restoration of a Portuguese public right, injected and mirrored by the monarchy, a sign of how in the 20th generation encyclopedist universalism and romantic nationalism were amalgamated, trends that still today measure forces in the public space, under other clothes. Due to its historic times, the 1822 Liberal Constitution can be read by the current Members of the Nation without any strangeness, even though many of the present democratic attributes are lacking. In fact, it was advanced in the face of national political time, which explains, in part, its early end. This did not prevent it from launching, in a impoverished and lowered country, the dismantling of the Old Regime, shifted the sovereignty of the monarch to the people and turned the subjects into citizens. With it, it began to challenge the cycle of servitude that took away the peasant world, even though it was the product of an urban and literary elite, and the Portuguese carriage was tied to the train of European modernity. Expired, however, was the United Kingdom of Portugal, Brazil and Algarves, and the liberal generation could witness the « Brazil Liberto», as Almeida Garrett celebrated, in a homonymous and pre-monitoring poem of 1821, and as we celebrated this year, brothers with the Brazilian people. The 20th generation thus emerges excited by a constitutional spirit, this intimate feeling which, in the words of Manuel Fernandes Tomás, already mentioned several times here, "inflames our hearts for the good of our fellow men". The constitutional spirit may be the only spiritualism that confuses itself with reason, which, far from meaning coldness and defamation, far from meaning inoperative abstraction, means working balance. And it is in the name of the reason that constitutional democracy refuses the excesses and rules the passions of political power, going through the path of abuse and arbitrariness, it is in the name of it that encourages moderation, which calls for an ethics of discussion and invites to conceive politics as a conflictal consensus or as a consensual conflict. What could the constitutional spirit be today? An antidote, if we wanted, at a time when, in many parts of Europe, the separation of red light powers and the liberal creed is on the way. Dark times that invite us to recognize the constitutive fragility of politics and to see the possibility of constitutional morbidity: constitutions also die. And there are not missing nations where liberal and social rights remain unavailable, but even unattainable. In the constitutions are the constituent power and the constituted power, the foundational force and the organizational form. Protective and prescriptive, they compete for the perenniality of civilizational principles and ideals. But the continuation and deepening of the innovations of our first fundamental law, in the Constitutions of 1838, 1911 and 1976, reveal that the constitutional spirit is a migrant spirit that must conjure and bind to the ground of each historical epoch. Thus, social rights were added to natural and liberal rights. It was in the hummus of the liberal state that germinated the social state. Today, perhaps this constitutional spirit can revive itself in a growing socialization of freedom, i.e. in the ability to exercise it, or it can revive politics as "reciprocity of different beings", in the beautiful expression of Hannah Arendt, or to join in the idea of cossoberania, which amplifies national sovereignty and appears as indispensable to advance where the old nation State itself is no longer capable. A constitution legally constitutes the freedom that democracy constitutes politically. But if it makes us citizens, it also makes us associates — from it we receive and in it we lay the common, declined in rights and duties. In the wording of constituent Member Manuel Fernandes Tomás, « the good of all is regarded as social happiness». May the spirit of the Constitution of 1822 therefore live. [[PS, standing, PCP and L applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-23.u17	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Constitutional Court, Mr. Ministers and Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, other Civil, Military and Religious Authorities, Mr. Representative of the Diplomatic Corps, illustrious Invited and Invited, Faces and Dear Citizens, Mrs. Members: Reunimo -nos en Sessiono Solene to commemorate the bicentenary of the approval of the Constitution of 1822, drawn up and approved by the Constitutional Courts elected in December 1820. It was the first Portuguese Constitution, drawn up and approved by elected Members, for the first time in general elections, which established, for the first time, the concept of citizenship, sovereignty of the nation, the regime of individual freedoms and the principles of representative government. They are reasons for the Assembly of the Republic, under the impulse of President Ferro Rodrigues, to have decided to carry out a programme of commemorations, coordinated by Prof. Guilherme d'Oliveira Martins, here present, to whom I thank the benevolent dedication and compliance with the results. [[P.S., BE, L and Members of the PSD and IL.]] This compliance is of course extended to the other members of the organizing committee and to the competent departments of Parliament. The commemorative programme is based on four fundamental axes. The first is the incentive to study our constitutional and parliamentary history, as well as the political and institutional circumstances that marked it, through the organization or support of scientific talks and conferences and the order of works to historians and jurists of indisputable competence. The second is the promotion of public knowledge, either through the editing of such works, or through the dissemination of facts and protagonists, through theatrical shows, concerts, documentary and exhibitions, of which I stress that it will be inaugurated today, in this building. The third axis consists of initiatives of preservation and memorialist consecration, in the toponyms, philatelia or lapidaria, that I allow myself to singularize the next evocation of the realization of the Constitutional Courts at the place where they proceeded, the Palace of Needs. The fourth axis is what brings us together: the solemn and institutional commemoration of the Constitution and constitutionalism. As early as 1921 the Congress of the Republic had met in solemn session, then to mark the centenary of the first meeting of the Constitutional Courts of 1821. It now commemorates the Assembly of the Republic the 200 years of the approval of the Constitution which these Courts have drawn up, and it is simple to justify the similarity of initiatives: the dawn of political liberalism in Portugal is evoked by its most direct and legitimate heirs, the Republic and the Democratic State. And therefore it is not only the Assembly of the Republic that pays tribute to the constituents of the Vintism, but all the sovereign bodies — the President of the Republic, the Government, the Tribunals — who honor us with their presence, as well as the whole of Portuguese society. The evocation we make is an institutional and political act. The determination of the factuality of the events of 1820 - 1823, its explanation in the national and international context, the elucidation of its effects and consequences, all this is the matter of the history and work of historians, who must do so in total intellectual freedom, without any embarrassment or exogenous orientation. It is up to us to reflect on the links that unite us with the first Portuguese Constitution and the regime it has inaugurated. It is up to us, with our eyes today, to revisit the past that, being in the genealogy of the present, can help us to better understand this present and what we can and should do about it. I suggest that we do so, in order to be brief and concise, from the point of view defined by the two initial articles of the Constitution which governs us, 1976. These articles characterize the Portuguese Republic as a sovereign state, based on human dignity and popular will; as a state of democratic law, respectful and guaranteeing fundamental rights and freedoms, based on pluralism of expression and organization and on the separation and interdependence of powers; a democracy committed to the construction of a free, just and solidarity society, aiming at the realization of economic, social and cultural democracy and the deepening of participatory democracy. This is the Portuguese State, according to our Portuguese Constitution of 1976. From this point of view, it is obvious what we owe to the first liberal constitutionalism: - we owe it the idea of national sovereignty, the representative principle, freedom of expression and freedom of the press, equality before the law, the emergence of a Parliament with its own powers and electoral legitimacy, the right of petition. In short, the transition from subjects to citizens. This, established in a written constitution, drawn up by constituents elected by citizens, marks a formidable break with the Old Regime and the beginning of a liberal conception of the political community which is, in all these aspects, ours. in this sense, yes, we, the Democrats of the Constitution of April, are politically liberal; our democracy is a liberal democracy; eight hundred political liberalism is in the matrix of what we are today, as a representative, pluralist regime, anchored in freedom and civil rights. We have, however, gone further, and have added other ways. On the one hand, we went further on the way that Vintism opened, but that it only went through the first releases: because we abolished what in the monarchy referred to ancient forms of legitimacy and exercise of power; because then we extended electoral legitimacy to all political organs of sovereignty; because we developed and clarified the separation of powers; because we extended freedom to the right of assembly and association; because we evolved in civil equality; because we advanced in secularity; because we valued political decentralization; because we strengthened legal guarantees. On the other hand, we also went down paths that liberalism did not want to follow. We went on the path of political democracy itself, based, as the 1976 Constitution says, on the « universal suffrage, equal, direct, secret and periodic», on non-discrimination, on full religious freedom, on the wide participation of citizens and social forces in political decision-making. And we went on the path of economic, social and cultural democracy, honoring work and workers, seeking equal opportunities, solidarity and justice, that is, choosing democracy committed to reducing inequalities, social cohesion and well-being. in our view today, the full realization of the promises contained in the first political liberalism goes through the rupture with its restrictive understanding of freedoms and rights, which limited them to civil rights and guarantees and restricted political rights to a small part of the population, and through the development of human rights in its interdependence and indivisibility, such as civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights. Democracy, yes. It also goes through the containment of the liberal programme in which it involved the prohibition of State intervention in the economic and social sphere and the refusal of market regulators. in this sense, if our democracy is liberal in the political dimension, it is by redundancy, because there is no pluralist democracy that is not liberal. But it is a social democracy, or socially advanced, or of strong social unity, as if to say, and that, yes, is an essential difference with the 20th-century liberalism. The relationship between today's Constitution and its forefather of 1822 is therefore marked in what matters to its contents by approximations and distances. There is, however, in the political perspective, a continuity that brings about such tension, and I would like to conclude by your point of view. The Liberal Revolution of 1820 and the Constitution of 1822 are particularly evident in the current Portuguese history that fought for freedom against intolerance, for the reason against fanaticism, for equality against the regime of privileges and exclusions, for representation against autocracy. A current that was born before and existed after the Constitutional Courts, which was persecuted and defeated in the various moments of absolutist reaction, which defeated the Civil War and established the foundations of the liberal regime. A current that was struck by the consideration of Portugal « in the balance of Europe », as Garrett wrote, by the education and civic training, by the affirmation of a public space, by economic and social modernization, by personal rights. This current traveled throughout the 19th century and in the 20th century suffered the anti-liberal and authoritarian drive of the New State. This current has only come to affirm itself full and lastingly with democracy. So, yes, Fernandes Tomás, Ferreira Borges and Borges Carneiro, like Almeida Garrett, Mouzinho da Silveira, Passos Manuel, Sá da Bandeira and so many others, yes, are ours. With them we share the love of freedom, the aversion to scholastics, orthodoxy and fanaticism, the fight against censorship and inquisition, the refusal of privileges and discrimination, the belief in progress, the rejection of submission and the commitment to citizenship. And this is also what we celebrate today. [[P.S. and L's, standing up, PSD and BE's.]] Mr President of the Republic will now speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-23.u18	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Presidents of the Superior Courts, Mr. Members of the Government, too illustrious Guests, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members, Excelles : Well done, Mr President, for the invitation to use the word in the celebration of the 200 years of our contemporary constitutionalism, on the exact day on which two centuries passed on the approval of the Constitution of 1822. Thus the Assembly of the symbolic Republic continues the initiative of the evocation of the 200 years of liberalism in Portugal, two centuries back on the Revolution of 24 August 1820, initiative of a predecessor of V. the Exa, greeting me, in the person of Prof. Dr. Guilherme d' Oliveira Martins, all those who encouraged this just national evocation. Excellences : Celebrating 200 years of our contemporary constitutionalism is marking the constitutional rupture in the replacement of the absolute monarchy, in its act of enlightened post-despotism, by a monarchy legitimized by national sovereignty before being by popular sovereignty. It is still a matter of stressing the requirement of a written and non-traditional constitution, which enshrines the separation of powers, the rights, freedoms and personal and political guarantees of citizens, no longer subject to the power concentrated in the king. these and other features — such as those relating to an empire of law, the legality of administrative activity, the independence of the courts, the process of constitutional review itself —, the one that is the greatest and most important is the primacy of freedom, brought by the second rational wave of individualist affairs and by the economic liberalism associated with then belief in a market for the achievement of the great collective, but in fact to the rise of the bourgeoisie more commercial than industrial. We therefore welcome today and here the freedom and a decisive, courageous and bold step towards the start of a very long and painful journey of its affirmation in Portuguese society. Excellences : He said « long and tormenting the journey» and so it was in his own constitutional history, because, after the Constitution of 1822, we knew the brief constitution of 1838 and the lasting, but successive times revised, Constitutional Charter of 1826. And the promises of 1822 had to suffer and wait decades, just as values of the 1911 Constitution knew the ephemeral of its validity and the anti-liberal, anti-democratic and anti-partisan constitution of 1933 would succeed. This at the constitutional level, since, in terms of the legislative reality and the facts, numerous dictatorships have interrupted either the constitutional monarchy or the Republic, so that, for many Portuguese, better saying, for the overwhelming majority of Portuguese, freedom would only arise in full from 1976 onwards, with democracy. In other words, there is a written constitution, by itself, no guarantee. The Constitution can be anti-liberal and anti-democratic and cover up an absolute power, or because it itself expressly points out, or because it simulates being what is not, in the so-called semantic constitution, allowing its application to overturn fundamental principles that allegedly intend to safeguard. So it was with the Constitution of the dictatorship until 1974. Excellences: The essential thing, however, is to question how it was possible for the promises of 1822, circumscribed, for example, in limited suffrage, in colonial vision, in total misunderstanding of the immediate future of Brazil, to suffer so much and for so long and the freedom announced, and today celebrated, with them suffered for more than 150 years. The answer seems simple: it is impossible to build freedom without those who defend it. Without liberals, in the first phase, and without Democrats later, when it became visible that personal and political freedom, and even economic freedom, only for some — because inequality prevailed and the vote itself expressed this inequality — is not true freedom. In other words, it is extremely difficult to build freedom with the militant opposition of vast social sectors or restricted sectors, but endowed with effective political power. It was thus largely in a part of the life of the constitutional monarchy, with the majority absolutist legitimacy in the rural country then dominant as that to go underground, never failing to challenge the constitutionalism that would be liberal. It would continue to be so with the heirs of this monarchical legitimacy, in franchise, in chili, in stamenism and salazarism. But didn't these heirs disappear in the nearly 50 years of the Constitution of 1976? We admit that much has been circumscribed with the fall of the years, always being the nostalgia of the past, of the political, economic and social past, internal or imperial past. It is, however, an illusion that new anti-liberal or anti-democratic tropisms cannot arise, that some will call democratic and liberal, or even authoritarian, and therefore not liberal. It is to look at so much of what is happening in the concert of nations: internal and external crises with internal projection, obsolescences, weaknesses, incompetences, injustice, poverty, inequalities — old, renewed or warmed up, and new ones — feed on Saudiism, but, above all, they feed appeals from paths, the most diverse, in which freedom and democracy can come to value less than fear, securityism and authoritarianism. [[PS, PSD, BE, and PAN applause.]] Freedom, like democracy, is built every day, or is weakened every day. And it is not enough, against that, to cry out with words, with prohibitions, with diabolisms, with exclusions. Words are important, but if only words, they take the wind. Or the day-to-day reality of citizens, of people, is made of progress and justice—even if with high and low, especially in times of pandemics, wars or economic crises—, steps of effective justice and equality, or freedom and democracy do not move forward, retreat. Or the public authorities, the main political, economic and social players, give a constant example of life, humility, closeness, responsibility and solidarity, or freedom and democracy do not move forward. Excellences: This is the great lesson of the 200 years of constitutionalism in Portugal. More than celebrating by celebrating what was lived two centuries ago, what actually happens is not to repeat the mistakes, omissions, delays and setbacks of the past, and to retain in them what was the bearer of hope and of the future. Do we want more and better freedom and democracy? So that all of us—to begin in all of us, elected of the people, without exception—will try to make every day a day of advance, a day of personal and national inspiration, so that our elector people never fall into the temptation to prefer dictatorship to democracy, authoritarianism to freedom, messianism or sebastianism to free and sovereign popular will. [[PS, PSD, BE, and PAN applause.]] We want to celebrate 200 years of the Constitution of 1822 and constitutionalism in Portugal? So let us all join this solemn session, day after day, gestures, decisions, moments that are not solemn but as or more important than solemn moments, genuine, courageous, bold, daring, of freedom and democracy — all of it, politics, economic, social, cultural, environmental — always thinking about everyone, but all Portuguese, that is, thinking about Portugal. [[PSP, PSD, L, standing, IL, PCP, BE and PAN applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-23.u19	The Solemn Evocative Session of the Approval of the Constitution of 1822 is closed, which takes place within the framework of the commemorations of the Bicentennial of our Constitutionalism. [[It was 11 hours and 30 minutes.]]
