ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late for everyone. We have quorum and all parliamentary groups are properly represented. The session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the galleries to the public. Before we begin the agenda, I will give the floor to Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to proceed with the reading of the dossier, as soon as there are conditions for all to be heard.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, several legislative initiatives. First of all, I refer to Deliberation Projects Nos 7 / XV / 1. a ( PAR) and 8/ XV / 1. a ( PAR). Law 333 / XV / 1. a ( BE), which drops to 8. the Commission, 334 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission, 335 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which falls to 9. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission, 336 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 337 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 338 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 339 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 340 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 341 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 342 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 343 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 6. a and 8. a Commissions, 344 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 345 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission, in connection with 10. the Commission, 346 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission, and 347 / XV / 1. a ( PS ), which drops to 1. the Commission. I then refer to Resolution Projects Nos 256 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 8. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission, 257 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which drops to 6. the Commission, 258 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission, 259 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission, 260 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission, 261 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission, and 262 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission. The proposal for a Law No 35 / XV / 1 was also included in the Bureau. a ( GOV ), which falls to 5. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary. The agenda for today's sitting was set by the Left Block and is based on the discussion of the following legislative initiatives: Bills Nos. 325 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Creates the program « Plot for Habitat », 326 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Creates the impermenability regime of the first housing and consecrates the payment donation, 327 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Limits the variation in the rate of effort in housing credit, 328 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Establishs the exceptional banking moratorium regime, 329 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Establishs a special contribution on extraordinary profits in the banking sector, 242 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Family House Protection, 275 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Expand the range of beneficiaries of the Porta 65 Youth programme, ensuring the right to young housing, 298 / XV / 1. a ( CH ) — Article 78 is amended. o-E of the Tax Code on the Income of Single Persons (IRS) in order to increase the percentage and limits of the deduction of housing expenses, 299 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — establishes measures to support and protect individuals due to the increase in interest rates applicable to financing contracts for own and permanent housing acquisition, 319 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Approves the scheme for granting credit to housing for young people, 320 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Approves tax measures to protect families with housing credits by amending the IRS Code and the Tax Benefit Statute and 334 / XV / 1. a (L) — Determines that borrowers are available, to those interested in hiring a credit to their own housing or that they are parties to one, to the constant and mixed benefit scheme. It allows the renegotiation of credits when the effort rate exceeds that recommended by the Banco de Portugal, and Resolution Projects Nos 258 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Recommends that the Government consider adopting the recommendations of the Banco de Portugal concerning the LTV ratio, the DSTI ratio and maturity, 259 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Recommends that the Government protect the right to housing, 260 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — proposes setting a maximum spread by CGD for housing credit and 261 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends urgent measures to respond to increases in housing credit. To present the Bills of the Left Block, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor. [[Pause.]] I ask for silence in the House. Please, Mrs. Mariana Mortagua.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In anticipation of their interest in this issue and that they may want to hear what the Left Block brings to the debate today, I would like to begin by quoting the obvious — there are 2 million credits to housing in Portugal and 93% of these contracts are associated with a variable interest rate. I mean, maybe the ladies. Members are interested to know that there are 1 million and 860 000 people who look anxiously, many of them afraid, to raise interest rates. Today, we are talking to all these people to whom the government says there is no reason for concern, who must quietly wait for a State budget that no one knows and which will come into force in the coming year. 'Trust us' — asks the government to deny inflation until it can no longer, and then to present a package which, rather than being a support, is a cut in pensioner's law.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u5	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u6	'Trust us' — the Prime Minister asked in the last parliamentary debate, while trying to convince the Members in this Chamber, and the Country, that there was and there is no problem with housing credits. But isn't there any real cause for concern? In January of this year, the average interest rate of new housing credits was 0, 8 %, but eight months later it exceeded 2 % and the European Central Bank ( ECB ) promises further increases. If in the euro area the big problem is access to new credits, the situation in Portugal is much more complex. Those who say so are the Banco de Portugal, which I quote : « Unlike the euro area, the vast majority of housing loans in Portugal have an indexed interest rate at the Euribor rates at 6 months or 12 months(... ). As such, Euribor's changes are transmitted more quickly to the stock of housing loans in Portugal than to the euro area average. Do not keep on seeking. ” In practice, we are talking about variations in the monthly benefit that can exceed, already this month of October, the 125 € that the Government has allocated only once in such a package to combat inflation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u7	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u8	The Prime Minister tells us that 90 % of contracts have benefits of less than €472 per month. The question that arises is the following: And then, Prime Minister? How far does the Government feel that the Portuguese should bear the combined rise in interest and price of essential goods when it is the State itself that denies decent wage updates? How far does the government feel that impoverishment is reasonable? We account for the case of a family with an income of 2000 € and a benefit of 417 €. In October, this provision will amount to more than € 123, without other loans that may have, without counting the increase in the price of food, electricity, gas, fuel. Without counting anything else, the income of this family just fell 6 % only in October. I ask the Government whether this is the kind of impoverishment that it believes to be reasonable. What if the monthly income is € 850 and the benefit of € 417? The same increase of € 123 states that this month 64 % of income is consumed by housing credit. I ask the Government whether this is the kind of impoverishment that is acceptable. We see an even smaller loan: a benefit of €278 in an income of €850. Already in October, the benefit will be €82 more expensive and this person, this family, has just seen the available income fall 10 %. Is this reasonable? If the logic of the numbers does not convince the government, let us turn to the reality of the facts. Between January and September, before further increases in the interest rate, 20 000 families had already requested help from the DECO ( Portuguese Consumer Protection Association ). It is the provision of the house that is increasing the risk of non-compliance, says DECO, adding that requests for aid from families with higher incomes are beginning to come, with effort rates reaching 70 %, when the counsellor is 35 %. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not alarmism that the rise of interest, which has already begun, is already making a move in the wages inflicted by inflation — it is our responsibility. An accelerated process of impoverishment is under way and all the government has to say to those who see poverty is approaching, or to those who even see the clearance behind the door, is to wait for the State budget. I therefore challenge Mr. Prime Minister or any member of the Government here present to pass a counter at the General Deposit Box ( CGD ) or a counter at the BCP ( Banco Comercial Português ) and explain that this October, the salary will not arrive to pay the benefit. They go to a bank in Caixa to explain that next month, in November, the salary will not arrive for the benefit. They will explain that until the following month, which is December, the salary will not reach the benefit, but that in January, perhaps the absolute majority prepares a State budget that will solve all the problems. They try using this argument on a balcony of BCP or Caixa, and perhaps have the idea of the affliction that people live in Portugal with the increase of interest on housing credits. Housing is a drama in our country. We don't forget who can't even buy a house and face a wild lease market. But today, we speak to the nearly 2 million people who have a housing loan and who only want security. It is not to require too much: to be sure that the salary will arrive at the end of the month, to be sure that it is protected from the greater indignity that is to lose the house where you live. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, each of the diplomas we present today bears a concrete, reliable and fair proposal to protect people from increasing bank interest. First of all, we propose payment, so that all bank debt is lifted, if the debtor wishes to hand over the house to the bank. Secondly, we propose the consecration of the impermenability of the house itself and permanent, in case of non-compliance with any other claims other than mortgage. Thirdly, we propose a regime of moratoriums, similar to that which took place during the pandemic, which suspends bank benefits, in whole or in part, in the event of a breakdown of family income. Fourthly, we propose the creation of a new regime, already experienced in other countries, to which we call « Plot for Habitat ». Through this programme, unlimited debtors may request a public fund to buy their mortgage. People guarantee their right to live in their home, which becomes leased to this fund at prices compatible with their incomes. The option of repurchase of the property remains within 10 years. This public fund should be financed by a contribution on excessive bank profits which increased 780 % since the first half of 2020. I repeat, ladies and gentlemen. Members, bank profits have increased 780 % since the first half of 2020. Finally, we propose a cross-sectional measure designed to avoid a sharp increase in the rate of effort for those who have a housing credit. The mechanism is very simple and adapts to different situations. The increase in interest rate may not vary the rate of effort by more than 2 percentage points, and the rate of effort may never exceed the 50 % recommended by Banco de Portugal ( BdP ). Consider the example of a short time ago: a benefit of 278 € in an income of 850 €. If nothing is done, this month the performance is already 82 € more expensive. The rate of effort has just increased from 33 % to 42 % of the income of this family, which is being directed towards paying a housing credit. With the limitation we now propose, the benefit cannot go beyond 35 %, plus 2 percentage points than it was before, so the increase is limited to 16 €. To achieve this result, banks are responsible for negotiating spreads and other contractual conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u10	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, people deserve policy on solutions, not a hystrionic showoff on the foam of the days. We do not bring the debate mere intentions and we do not lose in futile debates about the hierarchy of government members present here. We note that both PSD and PS are presenting themselves to this debate without their own proposals. It is therefore up to us to ask PS Members what they prefer, whether to support measures that protect the right to housing or continue to serve an absolute majority of blockade that, like Narcissus, « thinks everything that is not mirror is ugly ». [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u11	The Bureau registered three Mrs. Members to make requests for clarification, to which the honourable Member will answer together. To formulate the first request for clarification, Mrs Carla Castro has the floor of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, with these proposals, the Left Block seems to want to do all-in in the distribution of the real estate market, with consequences from the lease to the financial sector. As soon as the first measure of the program « Arrendar para Habitat », the Left Block begins by wanting a State — which is known for not even having a notion of its real estate heritage, and it is sufficient to see how, year after year, it cannot even have the registration of its updated heritage — responsible for ensuring that the people inserted in this program have a house in housing conditions, this State which is also not properly known for being a recommendable landlord. He spoke of the DECO, but we have already had the DECO, in an opinion to this set of proposals presented by the Bloc here today, explicitly saying that there is a transfer of responsibility from the social response to the exceptional situation that is now living from the public sphere to the private legal sphere of the landlords, not solving the existing structural problems. We therefore agree, yes, that they bring data and proposals here, but we do not agree that they bring the right causes and even less the solutions. So I leave a few questions: how does the Left Block propose that the State actually acquire housing and rent them for a value of income lower than loan benefits? Do you not think they would be creating incentives for non-compliance with large-scale banking credits? How would they pay? With more taxpayer taxes? Overcharging companies that pay taxes and wages? It is certainly not enough the contribution they suggest on the banks. Are you planning to add even more to the Portuguese state? In short, the question is: how will you pay for the Block's real estate dream? [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u13	To make the second request for clarification, Mr Paulo Rios, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, the question I ask you is to share with me a concern, which is the following: in an Assembly of the absolute majority, in which only happens what the government or the PS allows, where it is for the government...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u15	Don't you see? It's over there!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u16	... and where is it for the PS? The issue is important and therefore I wonder where the Socialist Party's proposals are. He spoke recently about the PSD. The PSD has always had the same attitude on this subject as others: to listen to, warn the government, demand intervention and, in the face of the distracting of the government, submit proposals. This has been the case with families, and this has been the case with companies and will be the case with this issue. As the honourable Member knows today in the Committee on Economic Affairs, we have had a depressing spectacle by the Socialist Party to obstruct successively the hearing of two very important entities on this subject...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u17	It's a lie! The three of them have been approved!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u18	... and that the PSD had requested, which are the DECO and the Portuguese Banking Association. Was it not important to hear them? We think it was important to hear them. This is the consecutive position of the Socialist Party. But there is one thing we know: the PS may not know or may not want to rule, but it will not be able to hinder us. If the government does not do so, the PSD will no longer, in the next few days, present concrete measures to support families. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u19	To make the third request for clarification, Mr André Pinotes of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all that, in this greeting, in the first intervention following the 112 years of the implementation of the Republic, you can congratulate, in the person of Mr President, all the achievements we have achieved over the 112 years. Let me go straight to the matter that brings us here, but not without giving a note to the PSD Member who just announced here that we blocked the hearing of a set of entities. Mr President, the PSD headquarters to accuse the PS of blocking things that we have never blocked is such that this House today approved the hearings of the Governor of the Banco de Portugal, of the Portuguese Banking Association and also of the DECO. Therefore, what has just been said here is not true and it is not worth insisting on these lies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Mariana Mortágua asked us if we were interested in 1 million and 800 thousand people who are going through these difficulties. We have interest, but much more than interest, we have even acted. That is why we are here today before a government which has presented the most revolutionary structural measures, those which over the years we have been demanding, which successive governments have not done and which are on their way. The honourable Member knows, as I know, that housing policies—and I leave here an honourable mention of the great Helena Roseta, who, over the years, fought in our democracy for this—do not resolve one day at a time, but we are very proud of what we are doing. In any case, Mrs Deputy, she focused on her intervention, wanted to cantonate the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group in its intervention between the rigor or the defence of housing and its dignity. They're not self-exclusive. The proof that they are not self-exclusive is that this government has even been able to present good public accounts while developing all these housing policies that pride us. And you would like to know, Mrs Deputies, that it was in the pandemic that we are responding with solidarity, rather than pain, to the difficulties that we have been faced. The honourable Member fought, as I fought, against a right that during the time of the troika wanted to go far beyond the troika and recalls that what they wanted with their reforms was to implement pain. If we can do it in solidarity, we do it, because in addition to the desire to transform the housing, we have certain accounts,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u21	Are you sure about that? Oh, my God! That's to laugh!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u22	...we have rigour and we also have international recognition of what has been done. [[CH protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude by saying the following: we enter this inflationary storm and, in the fall of the Banco de Portugal, we learned that growth will be 6, 7 %, which is indeed a growth that I think everyone is content with, and with an inflation of 7, 8 %. The measures taken by the honourable Members. Members here may have some virtuosity, but the central issue of the debate is whether we should act solely on contractual relations or whether we should continue, in our view, in a much more structural way, to a package of measures to encourage family income. That is how you are responding structurally to the challenge that Mrs Deputy brings here. Madam Member, we have the debate on the State budget, which will be presented on 19th — in fact, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this debate takes place 48 hours before the parties are received to do their discussion as well, but there is no problem, the rules of democracy are the rules of democracy, there is no discomfort with that — and I ask you, Member of Parliament, that we shall maintain the good will to dialogue in the State budget which will be presented and discussed in this House on 26th October. It is just that, Madam Member, this discussion is useful today and at any time, but your goodwill — and we want to believe that it exists — cannot go beyond the supervision of European entities, too, if we are going to be putting ourselves into a problem or into new problems. So, honourable Member, the question I ask you is: do you not think it is more by stimulating family incomes and in this bet that we structurally solve this problem? It is that, in contractual matters, the situation is technically more complex and would not reach a good port either. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u23	In reply, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u24	Mr President, Mrs Carla Castro talks about the destruction of the real estate market and I ask what is the real estate market that IL wants to protect so much, if it is the one that denies 10 % of young people who cannot find a room, if it is the one who charges 1200 € for a T2 that no family can pay, if it is the one who makes housing a luxury, impossible for anyone who wants to live in big cities. I do not understand what a large real estate market is and what answers people want to want so much to defend it, unless what they want to defend is, in fact, the interests of real estate funds that gain in denying population access to housing. I am amazed when you bring the issue of gentlemen to the debate. None of the left block projects touch rents or landlords. We were very clear. These projects have to do with the credit to housing and the interest of credit to housing and, therefore, I will refrain from responding to this matter. Ask us, finally, who will pay and how these measures are paid. Madam Member, we have very different views on how public policy is done. It makes sense that it is the role of the State budget to support housing policies, but we think of a solution which IL does not consider, called « special rate on bank's extraordinary profits », because if the bank profits 780 % more, thanks to the rise of interest, it can contribute to housing policies that mitigate the effect of interest increase. It is called responsibility and sharing of responsibilities between the various sectors. With regard to Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira, I do not know if I am more relaxed knowing that the PSD is here to alert the government to the serious situation we live in, but, indeed, they do. Having agreed that the absolute majority of PS is a barrier to hearings, it is an obstacle to the role of scrutiny of the Assembly of the Republic — it was not in this case, but it has been in others — but there is one thing that is certain: the PSD promised in September that it would present measures to combat the rise of interest in family budgets. The speaker showed a news story. It's been a month, we're in October, and nothing happened. Therefore, understanding that the absolute majority is an obstacle, I would like to know what was the obstacle that prevented the PSD from bringing proposals to this debate, as promised by the PSD leader in September. Mr. PS André Pinotes Batista, I have listened carefully to him, and the structure of his speech is as follows: we have done a lot, we have presented structural policies, during the time of the terrible troika, we have certain accounts. And who has a claim to housing and cannot pay the interest, asks: and then? They did a lot, they presented structural policies, right accounts, with the troika was bad, and then? What now? [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] And now, when the benefit increases beyond the salary, what do people do? And since you don't have a proposal to submit, the only thing you can say is that you don't think income gain is a solution. And I ask you, honourable Member, if you think that € 125 once on a person's account is a structural solution to pay an increase in the benefit to the bank, which may exceed €100 per month. And I ask you more: what are the concrete proposals that the PS has to put forward to combat the effect of increasing interest rates? Because Mr. Deputies asks for good will from the Left Block, but he is prepared to reject all the projects of the Left Block. So I ask you the question on the contrary: where is the Socialist Party's good will to take these projects to the specialty, to discuss them and to alter them as well as understand and as the result of the votes. This is the goodwill we hope for, indeed, not only good will, but also the will to bring solutions to the country. I think that's the most important thing. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u25	I now give the floor to Mrs Paula Santos of the PCP Parliamentary Group to present the bills and the draft resolution of her party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : The costs of housing increase at the same time as wages and pensions gradually lose purchasing power. If there were already difficulties in access to housing, the situation worsened, and much. The latest data from the INE ( National Institute of Statistics ) refer to the increase of 8, 6 % in the median income of the new leases in the second half of 2022, compared with the same period and the increase of housing prices by 13, 2 % in the same period. Prices with housing—as it reveals—are extremely high in relation to the low incomes of workers and pensioners. Speculation, golden visas, non-standard residents' arrangements, local accommodation, tourist enterprises are responsible for increasing prices and withdrawing houses for housing purposes. at the same time as this happens, what happens is an inaction by the government in the intervention and the guarantee of the right to housing, which would be decisive, in particular in the provision of public housing to deal with the housing deficiencies that are identified. There is also a lack of intervention to prevent speculative increases in the costs of housing that families have increasingly supported and that hinders access to housing. The difficulties in access to housing are coupled with the need to protect the home of the family. The increase in interest rates has very negative impacts on households with housing credits and, in fact, these increases have been the only response to uncontrolled inflation and the result of a policy subject only to the interests of the large economic groups, which see their profits increasing year after year, and the Government abdicates any other instrument for controlling inflation, including price control, public control, the planning of key economic rows and the increase of wages, reforms and pensions. in a context of worsening living conditions, this increase in inflation, the speculative increase in prices, there are serious risks of non-compliance by families and the loss of housing is a real possibility, a highly dramatic situation for those in these circumstances. We saw how it was in the period of the troika, we saw what it meant for thousands and thousands of families to be rid of the house they had rented, to be left without their housing, because they had no conditions to meet the commitments to the loans they had contracted. This is a very serious situation that demands a response from the Government. We believe that it is essential to prevent families from going into situations of non-compliance and that they may come to be homeless. It is in this sense that the CFP brings three proposals to debate. First, the suspension of the effects of the complaints of housing leases and the expiry of the housing leases, unless the tenant opposes his succession, and the suspension of the execution of the mortgage on the property that constitutes the property itself and permanent of the executed. Secondly, we recommend that the Government lay down a maximum spread, to practise by the General Deposit Box, in housing credit contracts below the average market values applicable to existing contracts, new contracts and the transfer of contracts with other financial institutions, without charge of any administrative charges. Thirdly, when the threshold of the effort rate, which is recommended to be 35 %, is exceeded, the family has the right to initiate a negotiated process mediated, through Banco de Portugal's teams, with the aim of reducing benefits and having a rebalancing in favour of families, a relationship which is therefore deeply unequal. We also propose that the possibility of using a capital shortage period of six months to one year, with the possibility of extending the maturity of the loan, as well as the possibility of establishing a fixed reference rate, be recovered. In our country, many and many families — I would say, thousands and thousands of families — were pushed into debt, because there was and there was no policy to give the answer needed to guarantee the right to housing. They are families with lower incomes who are in a more incompatible and more difficult situation, with rates of effort that already exceed 40 %, such as young people, who are very affected. That is why what is required is indeed an intervention to prevent families from entering into a situation of non-compliance. It is with this perspective, with this commitment and with this proposal that the CFP here today brings these solutions, in view of contributing to a solution that guarantees and protects the right to housing. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u27	To present the draft laws of the Arrival, Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u28	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u29	Please, Mr. Eurico Brilliant Days.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u30	Mr President, I am sorry, but the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, in the person of Mr Carlos Brás, signed up to make a request for clarification to Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u31	Let us, then, give the floor to Mr Carlos Brás. Mr. André Ventura cannot sit on the government bench for now. You have to do the favor of sitting on your bench. [[CH's laughs.]] Mr. Carlos Brás, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u32	Mr President, Mr Ventura has to wait a little longer, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u33	It's just a little bit more!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u34	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Secretary of State, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP, of course the Socialist Party is sensitive to issues of the impact of both the lease and the interest rates of the housing credit. However, any measure in this area will necessarily have to be sensible, balanced and weighted. Currently, the Portuguese legal system, including the Code of Civil Procedure and also the Code of Procedure and Tax Procedure, already has work and protection mechanisms for the sale and sale of real estate effectively affected by the family home. In addition, and as the honourable Member well knows, the Bill No 33 / XV / 1 was approved in this Chamber. the, pending promulgation of Mr. President of the Republic, which limits the increase of income to 2 % by 2023. On the contrary, this proposal now presented by the CFP has no underlying impact calculations, is not based on any study and is based on the principles of contractual freedom and good faith, as well as on certain rights, freedoms and guarantees of all citizens in general. They send the principles of equity, equality and justice, shaped and guaranteed constitutionally, as you well know, that by protecting citizens do not discriminate against others. What was good for the CFP was that when submitting such proposals, it would properly assess the quantitative and qualitative impact of such proposals and safeguard the legitimate interests of the other Contracting Parties. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u35	In reply, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you and thank you for the question. It is precisely the safeguard of the right to housing that justifies the proposals that the CFP has brought today to debate and that justifies the intervention of the CFP in this area.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u37	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u38	For us, what is a priority is to protect families, to ensure that nobody loses their home, in a situation of extreme difficulty, in the face of higher interest rates and also the loss of income. And there the Socialist Party has numerous and numerous responsibilities. It has responsibilities because it does not want to address the interests of the economic groups, in particular the interests of the bank. It has responsibilities because it refuses to value wages and pensions in order to recover the power of lost purchase and ensure that families are not in this situation of suffocation in which they are today. It has responsibilities because the Socialist Party, even before several moments with concrete proposals and questioning by the CFP on what it intends to deal with the increase in interest rates, has so far done zero. It is therefore necessary to prevent people from losing their homes, to prevent people from going to the streets and to guarantee, indeed, the right to housing and to protect and safeguard their homes. This should be the Socialist Party's concern. by the way, they're more worried about the bank. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u39	Now, yes, I give the floor to Mr. André Ventura to present the draft laws of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With a question like that, Mr. Carlos Brás, and for the time I was waiting, I could have advanced with my intervention. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's laughs.]] The drama we live today is a drama of real housing. It is the drama in which many families feel that they have for years paid for the various Portuguese economic crises and that they now have to pay for the brutal increase in the cost of housing. So today many Portuguese ask themselves firmly and rightly too: “Why did we have to put so much money on the banks if now the banks do not save us from the price we have to pay for our housing? Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u41	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u42	It is very unfair that a country that has had to save banks several times is now called upon to pay more and more and to see families increasingly destroyed, in an unprecedented housing drama that the management of the Socialist Party has led us. So this drama is real and no political spectrum can ignore it. The arrival today presents fundamental projects, and one of them seeks the exemption of the IMI (municipal property tax). And, if I may, Mr. President, I mean that IMI is the stupidest tax in the world,... [[Congrats from the CH.]] ... because it penalises housing, being housing a constitutional right, and penalises investment, so important in our economy. The IMI should not exist, and the Arrival has always been, from the outset, against this tax. But knowing that the circumstances are what they are, the House comes up with a proposal and challenges it to examine: an exemption from IMI to all housing buildings, during the period of application of the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ). at the same time, we want to expand the leque and the dimension of the program Porta 65 Jovem, being extended as much as possible to ensure that there are no young people who continue to live the drama of a life and a family without housing. They are projects that do not aim to destroy existing contracts or affect existing rights, aim to look at the economy and say that, at this moment of crisis, it is not fair that the Portuguese continue to pay so much and continue to pay more than the vast majority of Europe's housing countries. [[Congrats from the CH.]] We cannot fail to present this project without highlighting the obvious: if a large part of the right has been deceived about who should protect who in the most difficult crises of our lives, we cannot but point the finger to the left and the extreme left in this matter. I'd like to warn you. Members for the following: when a Spanish buys a house, it pays 10 % of taxes — I repeat, when a Spanish buys a house, it pays 10 % of taxes — but when a Portuguese buys a house, it pays more than 30 % of taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u43	It's socialism!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u44	I would like the whole country to look at this and see what the PS, PSD and management have given us, with the Left Block and with the PCP: when the Portuguese buy a house, they pay on average more than 25 % of taxes than their fellow citizens in the European Union and more than 30 % of what is next to them in Spain. This is the truth in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]] So we see with some strangeness that the left now says that we have to solve the problem of housing. Mrs. Members, in 2019 — the year of the Left Block, the PCP and the Socialist Party — housing prices rose by 8 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u45	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u46	I repeat, 8, 5 % — the biggest rise in history so far. Who was in the government? The PS. Who was supporting the government? The PCP and the Left Block. And now you come here to say that we have to solve the problem of housing! So where, over the past seven years, have they been supporting the government without solving any problems? [[Congrats from the CH.]] Now, they say that Lisbon is the third most expensive city in the world. It's and it shouldn't be. But I have news for you, sirs. Members: already in 2018, Lisbon was the most expensive cities in the world and you didn't do anything about it. You try to stop the wind with your hands and say "Now we're here, now it's going to be", only that it's one now that never arrives, it's one now that families are going to suffer more and more, unable to pay and feeling the brutal burden of those who saved the state and now the state is not there to save them. Yes, sir. Members, Lisbon was already the most expensive cities in 2017 and 2018. And who was in the government? Was it a PSD? Was it the Liberal Initiative? Was that enough? No, it was the PS, it was the Block and it was the PCP. They were the ones who were sending the government! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u47	Do you speak for the government now? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u48	Mr President, the projects of the Arrival are very clear, since they aim to solve a problem without always dividing landlords and tenants and without always dividing those who have signed contracts and those who have not signed them. They will always have a certainty on the side of arriving: yes, we must have more housing, yes, we must have quality housing and, yes, we must have public housing, but do not count on arriving to make the Portuguese pay more taxes and to give more houses to those who do absolutely nothing. For that, do not count with us, nor will they count, of course. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It's more people! They are Portuguese and foreign more living than those who have worked for Portugal for a lifetime. For that, do not count with us, for they will have our firm opposition. Enough of all the taxes on the Portuguese in this country! [[Ch's applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u49	To present the bills of the NAP, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The insensitive policy of the ECB and the inaction of the Government have led to a suffocating escalation of interest rates. By continuing in June of next year, housing credit benefits could even rise by 59 % compared to the value they had in January 2022. This means that, on a loan of €200 000, if, in January 2022, a family paid €594 of benefit, in June 2023 can pay €943, i.e., plus €349 of monthly increase. And these €349 won't serve to pay off the loan debt, quite the contrary. in a country where we have more and more minimum wages, due to the flattening of the average wage and the absence of an effective and consequent revision of the steps of IRS, this is absolutely unacceptable. Nor can we wait for the State budget. Families need a solution and need a solution now. That is why, immediately, we need proposals that help not only with housing credit but also with access to rent. The NAP is doing this today, proposing two very concrete and simple measures aimed at these two realities. On the one hand, we propose that, as a result of the reimbursement of part of IRS interest expenditure, these interest rate increases should be compensated, i.e., an increase in the percentages of deduction, in line with inflation, and the maximum limits of deductions. With this measure, families can recover IRS deductions with a portion of the interest-paid value, which can reach up to €676. On the other hand, we propose a period of IMI exemption for those who buy home for their own and permanent housing and that this goes from three to five years, because what we have to offer our young people, our society, cannot just say that only some can have access to their own housing and that others cannot dream of their own home and have to resign themselves to mere lease. We do not accept that young people can only have rented rooms or homes at their disposal to rent up to 70 % of their salary. We do not accept that the only support from the State is through programs such as Accessible Rent or Porta 65 Young, because there are dreams beyond the lease, but that does not mean that Porta 65 does not have to be reinforced. In conclusion, we propose the creation of a bonus credit for housing for young people up to 35 years, to which they have the possibility to adhere with certain insurance and with a discount on the emoluments of the scriptures. In the 1990s, the possibility was given to the older generations and our generations; now is the time to give the young people of 2022 the opportunity to realize this dream of having autonomy and a home of their own.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u51	The Bureau registered two Mrs. Members to make requests for clarification, but Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has clearly no time to answer. I ask the parliamentary groups concerned whether they want to maintain the requests for clarification. [[Pause.]] The Bureau was informed that the Arrival and PSD intend to make their requests for clarification, and the PSD gives the NAP one minute so that it can respond. That is how I begin by giving the floor to Mr Jorge Salgueiro Mendes for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs Deputies, the PSD is very concerned about the impact of the increase in the interest rate on housing credit, in particular its impact on the family budget, but is even more concerned about the lack of response from the PS Government, to which it is responsible to govern, but does not govern, contributing to raising the fears of families, despite the warning of central banks, and even the PSD Parliamentary Group, in November 2021, on this possibility of increasing interest rates. As for the proposals under discussion, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have proposals for all tastes and political guidance. The proposals of the government arc, of the famous management, are no more than the anticipation of the debate of the next State budget for 2023 — it is warming! — seeking to spread its responsibility for the six years of support to the Government of the Socialist Party. Some of these proposals that aim to solve the problem of housing credit will create serious problems in other sectors, which in the long term will prove even more serious. Other proposals promise dreams for tomorrow, but will only take effect in 2023. However, all proposals suffer from a capital sin: they are dependent on the legislative dynamics of the Budget, which we will discuss from next Monday. That is, even if, in theory, all these proposals were approved, they will be brought down to their committee for debate in the specialty and will be suspended until the adoption of the State budget for 2023, on that memorable date of 25 November. In short, we cannot apply the maximum of the postal code 'is half-way' to the proposals under discussion, because they will be waiting for the budget train, but perhaps, with good will, if the title of the drama is applied The mailman always touches twice. With regard to the proposal submitted by the NAP on tax benefits, and the arrival also presented a proposal in this regard, I would like to say to you, Mrs Deputies, that the families have a problem today, but the bill has already begun to arrive yesterday. The proposed tax benefits, with which the PSD agrees, will produce effects only in June 2023. That's not enough, Your Honor! It's a little bit! So the question that I leave is the following: what proposals does the NAP have in particular to support Portuguese families, right now, by the end of the year to combat the serious problems caused by the increase in household credit, which are felt in the family budget? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u53	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, I forgot to ask you whether you want to answer the two requests for clarification together or whether you want to answer one by one.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u54	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u55	Therefore, I give the floor, for a request for clarification, to Mrs Rita Matias.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, I leave a previous note, saying that the bill that the Arrival presents today on Porta 65 Young, in support of the young lease, could already have been discussed in this House, had not the Socialist Party and the Portuguese Communist Party boycotted its presentation. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Having said that, I would also like to say that in this debate it is impressive that we continue to look at young housing as a expenditure and not as an investment and, as we look at it in this way, we will continue to condemn Portugal to demographic winter and, who knows, to its extinction. Mrs Deputy, I bring you the specific case of John and Ana. This is a couple aged 28 and 26 who is within the Portuguese average and therefore each earns about €900 per month, living on a T1 in Lisbon and paying a monthly income of €700, which is clearly a finding. This couple is excluded from Porta 65, because this program has as maximum ceiling allowed an income of 581 € for T1 in Lisbon, i.e. it is impossible. The government has promised us, in this State budget, to update the values; it happens that, as the State budget has already entered mid-year, they have ended up not updating anything and therefore these young people are still excluded from the programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u57	Listen to me! Listen to me!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u58	The house expenditure is 40% of the costs of the couple. With the costs of the pass, electricity and gas, which are increasingly expensive, television, the Internet, mobile phone, merchandise, young people spend more than 500 € on fixed costs and, ultimately, less than 30 % of their salary, that is if there is no misfortune, if they do not have a problem with the car or if they do not have a health problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u59	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u60	As far as home purchase is concerned, it is also not much better, because they need to give an entry of 10 % to 20 %, they need bankers, they need to pay IMT (municipal tax on expensive property transmissions), the seal tax, the contract-promise purchase and sale, finally, an infinity, a huge list that never ends again. As for home acquisition support programmes, this government also gives ball, zero! So, in this suffocation, how can we realize ourselves as young people, as family, and as children? Mrs Deputy, before asking a very specific question, I give you another case: that of Hungary, which is a country similar to ours, with about 10 million inhabitants, and which, by chance, has been reducing the number of divorces, has been increasing the number of marriages, births and, above all, the rate of happiness. And you know why? Because the Hungarian Government places more than 5% of its GDP on support for young couples, at birth and in young housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u61	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u62	The Hungarian Government has supported young people in the first marriage during the first 24 months; the Hungarian Government has supported the purchase of a house and increases this support proportionally to the number of children of the couple; the Hungarian Government has given concrete support to the lease and is not playing « doors 65, 64 or 63 ». So, the question that I leave to you, Mrs Deputies, is the following: are you prepared to leave your ideological prejudice aside and to follow these measures that the Arrival presents in the same way as those taken by the Hungarian Government? [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u63	In reply, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor, appealing to her power of synthesis.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u64	Mr President, within the short time I have available, I will try to reply to the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, thanking me from now on for the two questions that have been put to me. Mr Jorge Salgueiro Mendes, of course, the PSD, taking into account that there was no ideological prejudice of the NAP in these proposals, in particular those which guarantee the right either to rent or to own housing, will have to come to the meeting of the NAP proposals, and we are available to work in the field of specialty, in particular as regards the validity of the NAP proposals, and, as it is known, we cannot exceed or pass over the law-work, since it has been one of the rules of admissibility of the proposals. With regard to the questions put by Mrs Rita Matias, which I am also grateful for, I would like to say that she should not speak of ideological prejudice when we have the opportunity to reach all young people without exception, not only those who have children or who contribute to birth. I believe that the young people out there want to know what this House will give them and guarantee in access to housing, whether it rents or own home, because no one makes family projects if it has not guaranteed autonomy, employment or the realization of their dreams. So being here talking about birth in a debate that is about the fundamental right to housing...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u65	Can't you understand the connection?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u66	Finally, we will, of course, be pleased to follow up proposals for families to take place in their multiple dimensions, but we want these proposals to reach all young people and not just a few.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u67	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor to present his bill and draft resolutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u68	He'll take us with him!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u69	Mr. President, this is the first time I've had my way away before I start talking. [[CH's laughs.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, present here, even more than usual and with more emphasis, Republican greetings. [[CH's laughs.]] The Portuguese live at home with a time bomb called Euribor. And to the people who say that Euribor is Euribor the Europe that solves, well, we must say that in Portugal, unlike the other euro area states, 9 out of every 10 families with a housing credit have variable rates and it is essential that, at the time these families seek to accommodate themselves at the fixed rate, the bank does not raise any obstacles to them. This is the object of the bill that the Free Bill presents today, removing any kind of obstacles, forcing the bank to renegotiate the credits that are under variable rates and whose families want to pass them at fixed rates, but also allowing the Government to lay down rules for that fixed rate to be found in a fair manner that respects the rate of effort that families can reach. in the same way, we recommend that the Government adopt the recommendations of the Banco de Portugal on the ratio between the value given as collateral and the loan and the ratio of the effort rate. Finally, and because the Government has left a hole to its extent for 2 % of the income increase tabulation, which is the possibility for the landlords to let the contracts expire and renegotiate them out, the draft resolution we present today recommends to the Government to protect the right to housing, maintaining a temporary regime suspending the expiry of these lease contracts. We cannot let this time bomb become a hell for families who cannot afford to pay their loans and we cannot leave any holes that allow mis-intentioned landlords not to respect the incomes tabling.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u70	The Bureau registered Mrs Carla Castro of the Liberal Initiative to make a request for clarification, but Mr Rui Tavares has already used up his time for reply. I wonder if the Liberal Initiative still wishes to maintain its request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u71	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u72	You have the floor, then, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, Mr Rui Tavares, the Free Paper addresses the ratios of loans, mortgage guarantees, maturity, among others. We in the Liberal Initiative have talked a lot about the importance of financial literature to deal with the issue, to negotiate, in essence, to be able to deal with the situation as best as possible, when, for example, a family is in trouble and obviously needs counseling. However, there is nothing within these solutions that is here today, which is a fraught with bureaucracy and legislative restriction. We are seeing that many of the legislative initiatives presented are often virtue signals, under which, I quote, "protect consumers and even financial systems", as if, for example, the financial system itself wanted generalised non-compliances. Let us see, in particular, one of the initiatives which mentions that the Banco de Portugal has issued recommendations. For now, we believe that the Free will disregards Banco de Portugal's recommendations because it considers them to be ineffective. On this point, I quote the President of the Court of Auditors who, a few days ago in this House, responded to a Member saying 'do not underestimate the value of a recommendation'. In our view, the Book is looking down on, because it says that it is necessary to legislate for these recommendations to be effective. There are two major ways of addressing these issues, and one of them is structured. For example, talking about unharmed macroprudential powers would be a way of dealing with these issues with supervision. Or are you doing force collections here through legislation? It was recalled that increasing the LTV(loan-to-value) is detrimental to the most disadvantaged people, those who may, for example, have credit capacity for a house, but who may not have money to give an entrance? Many look at financial indicators as poppy bugs, but then forget to see the real, concrete effects, especially the most disadvantaged. But the doubts about these legislative initiatives are also in the form and not only in the content, not only about whether the Assembly itself has the power to do so, but even notice in the wordplay of one of the draft resolutions. It proposes to the Assembly of the Republic, and I quote that « it should recommend to the Government that it, under its legislative competence, define in this regard binding limitations for borrowers, in accordance with the recommendations of the Banco de Portugal ». In other words, does the Book propose that the Government should be able to do so, but should it not be 'that the Government should do'? The government, when weighing its actions, weighs the various options it has on the table and the parties recommend actions. Therefore, in this case, we recommend that the Government be able to make a recommendation that is effective, but that it no longer be a recommendation to be binding! Mr President, I sincerely believe that we need more clarity, less signification of virtue and to understand, indeed, what we are proposing. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u74	The speaker to whom the clarification was requested has no time to answer and, during the intervention for the formulation of this request, no time has been signalled to the Bureau so that I cannot give the floor to Mr Rui Tavares for this purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u75	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u76	The honourable Member is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u77	Mr President, it is to make an appeal to the Bureau for the distribution of documents. I will not make any clarification on my own behalf.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u78	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u79	Mr President, very briefly I would like to convey to Mrs Carla Castro the legislative framework of the Banco de Portugal, which tells us that it can issue binding recommendations or determinations to the bank. These are recommendations, in this case, and it is therefore not to be underestimated that the government should pass them into law.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u80	Therefore, you have made a generic reference, but you will easily find the bank's statutes at the Banco de Portugal's electronic site. I would like to remind all parliamentary groups that we will have votes after the next debate. Having entered the stage of the debate, I give the floor to a speech, to Mrs Marcia Passos, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We thank the Block on the Left for the scheduling of this debate on housing, a fundamental right which requires the State to conduct an active act that implements measures of support to those who need it most and, above all, sets out a strategy for the future. This is all that the Government of the Socialist Party does not do. It is going to the taste of the winds, even assuming that the State has failed in promoting public housing policies. These are the words of the Secretary of State, in November 2021, which created the expectation that the Government would present solutions. I've been back a year, nothing new and the government assumes that the state has failed. It has failed and, unfortunately, with this government will fail again. [[PSD applause.]] He failed for decades and failed in the measures presented in haste in time of pandemic. It is the Court of Auditors that says this: "The government's measures for housing during the COVID have been a failure. There were measures that were not even implemented. Do not keep on seeking. ” So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is with sadness that we see the Left Block and the PCP which supported such measures that failed, want to repeat errors, copying management measures that only brought confusion and increased disputes, which are now running in the courts. They are vicious measures of ideological prejudices, measures that offend the right to property, as demonstrated by the bill of the Left Block, which wants to turn the owner into a leaser, taking away from him the possibility of having his property.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u82	She's a volunteer, and Mrs. Deputy knows!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u83	The Left Block transforms the owner into a tenant of such a fund and says that the tenant may, in future, ask to be transferred to a property that best suits his family reality. Do You “Ask ”? It is a leaser subject to and dependent on the will of the Fund, with which it has a contract to which the Left Block has called something unpublished in the lease, « contract without term », as if a work contract were concerned. It's the renter seen in front of the landlord as a worker. [[PSD applause.]] This is where the Left Block wants to transform the lease and to this we can only say: it was just what was missing! Renters deserve respect, as well as you do, in a relationship that is intended to be balanced and with clear clauses as well as rights, but also obligations, for both parties. Then again, the Left Block presents measures to encourage the debtor's failure to comply, wanting to make the property impervious and withdrawing rights to the creditor, whether it is a common creditor or a privileged creditor, be it a child, a father, a spouse or a former spouse who claims, for example, a food pension. To all these, the Left Block says: if the only guarantee is the debtor's property, they will never receive what is due you. They are unrealistic and highly harmful measures, as are some of the proposals announced by the CFP. The CFP again proposes the suspension of the effects of the complaint and the expiry of the lease contracts. Once again, the PCP creating instability in the lease.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u84	And stability in people's lives!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u85	The PCP hasn't noticed yet, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who the more unstable the rent in Portugal, the less houses there will be to rent and, the less houses they exist to rent, the higher the income values, the more demand there will be in the purchase and sale and, being the reduced offer as it is today, the more the house prices and credit benefits will rise to housing. [[PSD applause.]] It's simple equations like these that left parties can't understand. What about the government? The government is waiting, who knows, for the PSD to present measures to respond later.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u86	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u87	The PSD always says "present". He said « present », for example in 2012 with support measures for families who had difficulty paying for housing credit. I will remember: the PARI (Action Plan for the Risk of Non-compliance) ; the PERSI ( Extrajudicial Procedure for the Regularization of Non-compliance Situations ) ; the extraordinary regime for the protection of creditors to housing in a very difficult economic situation ; and the creation of safeguards for mortgage borrowers to housing. All of them, measures of the PSD initiative and which are still in force. [[PSD applause.]] So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, without demagogy and without prejudice, the PSD has said and will continue to say « present» to Portuguese and Portugal! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u88	Look at that!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u89	The honourable Member has two requests for clarification. I assume you want to answer together...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u90	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u91	To make the first request for clarification, Mrs Joana Mortágua of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u92	Mr President, Mrs Márcia Passos, on 13 September, Luís Montenegro anticipated that the PSD would submit proposals to mitigate the impact of rising interest rates on housing credit. Cito Luís Montenegro :« The State has the responsibility not to leave young couples behind and with an added difficulty in their lives. Do not keep on seeking. ” The expectation was then that the PSD would propose, in the words of Luís Montenegro, measures such as moratoriums on the rise of interest in housing credit. On 26 September, the PSD announced that, like 3, 3 million Portuguese would be subject to the growth of interest rates in housing credit, as house prices did not stop increasing, as income prices would not stop increasing and how benefits could rise between €261 and €436, then it would require—see if well! — the hearing of Mário Centeno and the DECO. Today, on 6 October, the PSD submitted a request to Banco de Portugal to know the number of consumer credit contracts at variable rates and their volume.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u93	It was a few days ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u94	What this means is that the government has already used us to have a State Secretariat of Studies. He's got a secretary of studies! What the PSD has is a demand office, because a promise to present moratorium measures against the rise of interest rates has translated very quickly into requests to collect data and hear entities that we all already know what they think. By the time the young couples, these, were right behind, because the PSD, when the height comes, did not present anything. To describe this, there is only one sentence: these are the so-called « lion entries and path exits ». It remains to be known who the PSD agrees with. Is it with the government, which says that it is not time to act on the growth of interest rates and the garrot that imposes on families? Or is it with the Left Block, which did what Montenegro said he would do and didn't? Mrs Marcia Passos, the problem is that the PSD presents itself without demagogy, without prejudice, without proposals, without anything! What the PSD presents in this debate is zero! What the PSD came to do was distort the proposals of the other parties to erase what comes from this bench, which is a huge silence, a huge void. from the words of the leader Luís Montenegro nothing remains, just an empty promise. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u95	To make a request for clarification, Mr Ivan Gonçalves of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u96	Mr President, Mrs Marcia Passos, the context in which Europe, the world and Portugal are at present is indeed quite complex, after a pandemic, to which a war has been waged, and after an inflationary outbreak and a consequent increase in interest rates, the effects of which are not yet fully known. We know, however, that the State budget for 2023 will be presented in this Parliament next week, and much of the proposals under discussion today depend on the approval of that same State budget. We already know that the government will implement a package of measures that support families in about EUR 2, EUR 4 billion, to which more than EUR 1, EUR 6 billion of measures previously taken. That is, it is a total incentive of more than EUR 4 billion, which corresponds to the extraordinary collection of VAT (value added tax) with the effect of inflation. We also know that housing is a right that is preserved in the Constitution and we do not ignore that the setting of recent years has brought a number of challenges that prevent this right from being or being realized. Portugal has a public housing park corresponding to 2 % of the total fires, which is so low in Europe. However, the Government of the Socialist Party, contrary to what Mrs Marcia Passos said, has presented solutions and made this a priority issue. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u97	We are the country of Europe that will allocate a higher percentage of PRR to housing, with more 6800 houses for affordable income, plus 2000 houses in the National Stock Exchange Urgent and Temporary, plus 26 000 houses under 1. the right — Access to Housing Support Programme, and the rehabilitation of more than 4000 IHRU houses (Instituto da Habitação e da Rehabilitation Urbana). Portugal has never had such a large investment in housing, Portugal has never had such an ambitious plan in housing and Portugal has never done so much to facilitate access to housing at controlled costs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u98	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u99	How is that possible? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u100	What the PSD has brought us, over the past few weeks, would be a big plan of support for families, but in fact it is less than half what the Socialist Party Government has presented. [[PSD protests.]] With regard to the concrete measures which Mrs Deputies speaks of, the Portuguese are well aware of the concrete measures taken by the governments on the right, the PSD and the CDS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u101	All right! [[Protests from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u102	We have memory!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u103	... also supported by the current leader of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u104	Calm down!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u105	When the PSD/CDS government had to take action, the choices they made were cut in pensions, wages, National Health Service, public school and also in housing. The choices they made were the deregulation of the income law, which brought us more social injustice, more inequality and more confusion, as Mrs. Therefore, the Portuguese know the history of the PSD. It has already been recalled here that the PSD leader in September stated that he would bring us proposals to resolve this issue, resolve the rise in inflation, i.e. to resolve the rise in inflation and the increase in interest. If this question is so easy to resolve, if the PSD has so many proposals, I ask you, Mrs Member: why does it not bring us here one single proposal? Since you will have the opportunity to answer the questions that have been put to you, Mrs Deputies, I would ask you at least to give us a proposal to help the Portuguese people and to meet the costs of raising interest in housing credit. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u106	Mrs. Joana Mortagua asked for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u107	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u108	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u109	Mr President, I just wanted to ask for the distribution of Bill No. 237 of the XII Legislation, proposed by the PSD, which creates an extraordinary regime of protection of creditors to housing in a very difficult economic situation, which is proof that the PSD proposes most of the things that it has now criticized in the Bill of the Block, going beyond allowing even the exchange of housing by others of lower value, which the Block of Left does not do. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u110	To answer, you have the floor to Mrs Marcia Passos.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u111	Mr President, Mr Ivan Gonçalves, if the PSD were a government today, it would not have one or two measures, it would have a set of effective measures to solve housing problems in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u112	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u113	I would also like to say to you, Mr, that it is not worth claiming the PRR and the 1. the law, because these measures have indeed been of some effectiveness, thanks to the collaboration of our authorships and municipalities, who are concerned about housing and the problem of housing in their municipalities. [[PSD applause.]] Mrs. Joana Mortágua, in relation to the measures that have been submitted or to the request that it has been submitted, there is some distraction on the part of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block. It was not today that he was introduced. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u114	The request was submitted 15 days ago, it was — let me say so! — vetoed by the Socialist Party, asking for a postponement, and today it has again been the subject of great confusion, as may be verified in the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u115	You don't even know that! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u116	So let's hear the entities, of course. We must listen to them to know what measures we can take with a sense of responsibility. The PSD will be there and will say « present», as always. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u117	The next item is the statement by the Secretary of State of the Treasury.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to stress on the part of the Government the full sensitivity and consistency with the relevance of the issue for this discussion. The assessment we make of the various diplomas presented is that they address relevant issues and, some of them, should be part of a final legislative position. The truth is that almost all of these diplomas contain a set of provisions that contravene the practice of respect for existing contractual relations. The Government believes that this issue is relevant. The increase in housing benefits is relevant and we want to deal with it under the income agreement that the government is negotiating, in the budgetary office and in the seat of an autonomous diploma where we believe that we should put a set of topics specifically addressed to the banking sector and its relationship with its customers in the current context. Therefore, our position is contrary to the provisions which contradict the relationship of trust that economic agents have with the Portuguese State, i.e. the support, through the law, of unilateral changes in contracts or the lack of protection of guarantees for which customers have, responsibly, assumed obligations. We are also opposed, for reasons of total lack of grounds in the European area, to moratorium measures. I must say that this discussion, and part of these proposals, is a re-editation of what was presented by the same parties at the end of the moratoriums. We have 50 euro bis in moratoriums in Portugal, of which 17 « bis» were from residential credit. Part of the measures relating to unilateral changes in contractual positions and reductions of guarantee were presented at this headquarters by the same parties as a solution to a catastrophic problem that would naturally happen. We also had on the side of other major opposition parties, the almost indefinite extension of the moratoriums. The fact is that it was the Portuguese Government that did the proper management of the moratoriums, with an absolutely extraordinary balance, when we faced an unprecedented crisis. But this does not mean that we do not have to address the problem we are facing. I recall that at the end of the moratoriums — and the IRAP and the PERSI were referred to — it was the Government of the Socialist Party that strengthened the legal framework to adapt it to the end of the colossal moratoriums that we had, including the time limits for banks to be able to submit proposals, necessarily, to people who had the most difficulties. The truth is we did it and successfully, because there was no problem at the end of the moratoriums. I think we have that credit. There is no legal basis at European level for moratoriums on housing credit. We understand, in fact, that these ideas of unilateral changes in contracts, of the deprotection of bank credits and moratoriums are ways of creating an illusion in the people we can, by administrative or legislative means, end the increase in interest rates. I underline that the current interest rates are as follows: 1, 25 %, Euribor at 3 months; 1, 84 %, Euribor at 6 months; and 2, 47 %, Euribor at 12 months. It is our understanding—and Banco de Portugal, which is the regulator, has already said publicly — that 2 % to 3 % are normal interest rates.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u119	And next year?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u120	We must be serious about telling people that this is the reality for which we have to plan our family budgets. This is the reality! We do not have tricks or illusions to solve this reality, which the Government will address, within the income agreement, by budget and by specific diploma to the banking sector. I should also point out that we should not discharge everyone's responsibility. When a residential credit contract is signed, the customer shall, on the demand of the Banco de Portugal, be aware of the impact on its provision of more than 3 %. Repeat: Euribor rates are 1, 25 %, 1, 84 % and 2, 47 % ; and 2 % to 3 % are normal rates. But the government agrees that the evolution of indexers has been extremely fast, which causes a significant change that obliges us to act in the field of the banking system and its relationship with customers. Now, as it was the last time, in the face of the disaster announced by various parties at the end of the banking moratoriums, we want to refocus on the solution. And what is the solution? What are some of the solutions we want to propose? Much has been said here about the worsening rate of effort. It's true! There will be an increase in the rate of effort. It is true that at times there is not yet an increase in the rate of effort, the person himself, in view of his salary condition and the expenditure he has, already anticipates that his rate of effort may increase. So what the Government is going to do is to legislate that, in the light of these two conditions, there is a duty, which is imposed on the bank, to deal with this significant increase in the rate of effort, to present a new proposal. And what could that proposal be? It may be a refinancing of the credit and the conclusion of a new credit. It may also be the extension of the term of depreciation, and I stress that the extension of the period of depreciation to cope with stress situations is potentially a solution—for example, with the increase of this maturity in five years—so we intend to contemplate this in the diploma. In addition, we wanted to create a pedagogical, accountability and customer protection mechanism which is that, within a certain period of time from this change, the customer has the right to return to the original deadline. Why? Because we know that increasing the deadline reduces the benefit, but in the end the customer will pay more and more interest, and we want to introduce an innovative mechanism that will allow him, within a given period, to have the option of returning to the original contractual deadline. There may also be a change in the type of the applicable rate and the consolidation of various credits, without the increase in interest rates. So we understand that this worked again in front of a brutal scale of moratoriums. We understand that it is a responsibility of the banking system to collect information about customers and work with them, as well as a responsibility of the customers to put their financial condition on the table so that they can reach reasonable solutions. It is true that indexers are growing very quickly, but it is also true that interest rates are on a standard, so to speak, normal. As an example, we also want to introduce the temporary suspension in the course of 2023 of the requirement of the early amortisation commission so that its existence is not an obstacle to the renegotiation and transfer from one bank to another. We also recognize that, over the past 10 years, the indebtedness of families has also fallen quite a lot. There were deposits and, therefore, people could ask themselves whether, instead of possibly having their deposit, with very low remuneration, they should mitigate their efforts by early repayment. We are seeing, for example, that savings certificates — a product that the government has long had on the market — have been seeking increasing demand and we feel it as a demand for better pay for its deposits. Thus, people will have the option, without this'sword' of the early depreciation committee, precisely to reduce their efforts and not to pay such high interest rates. I would now like to highlight some figures on the development of the Portuguese economy. at present we have a housing credit of 99, 7 billion euros below the 2011 peak, which was 114, 5 « bis ».
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u121	One billion!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u122	If we see the importance of this data in the Portuguese economy, this represented a decrease of 64 % to less than 40 % and the indebtedness of families since 2009 has fallen EUR 15 billion. As regards banking competition and the financial credibility of the Republic, I stress that the weighted average spread of variable interest rate contracts has consistently decreased by appreciably 3 % in the last decade to appreciably 1 % in recent years. I also emphasize, and comparing with the extremely difficult times of 2009, which currently according to the information of Banco de Portugal, the average housing benefit corrected by the increase in the income available to families is 60 % of the average benefit in 2009. I stress that the Euribor rates, which have the values I mentioned recently, were already 4 % and 5 % in the past. We're far from that reality. We must also take into account that today, in the United States and the United Kingdom, the rates of hiring new housing operations are between 5 % and 6 %. This is relevant information to relativize and can read the circumstances in which we are currently found. On the other hand, and also on security, we must be transparent with the Portuguese on the evolution of interest rates, also in the Republic, for which there has been a great work of the Government to contain this development. in a pedagogical logic, I'm going to give you notice of this evolution. As regards the five-year Treasury obligations: on 3 January 2022, less 0, 26 % — this is important because we are going to have the discussion of the State budget —...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u123	It's not now! It's not about this!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u124	... on 30 June 2022, 1, 72 %; on October 2022, 2, 46 %. But at 10 years we paid less 1, 35 % than Italy and less 0, 12 % than Spain. This means that the value of Portugal's credibility on the markets, the value of the credibility of our bank's finance, is not compatible with measures that destroy the principle of respect for contracts, which is a foundation of the rule of law in Portugal. Therefore, in this matter, with the help of the regulator, we will not compromise. [[Pause.]] [[Have you lost?]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u125	And the interest rates going up!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u126	That is always a concern! Thank you all very much, I was just confirming that I didn't forget to mention anything. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u127	Only for a question of linguistic compatibility, « bis» in economics is the same as a billion in Portuguese. [[Laughing.]] Mr. Secretary of State, the Bureau records four entries for requests for clarification and is informed that it will respond in pairs. The first request for clarification belongs to Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u128	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I confess that I began to hear it - with hope - but I lost it in an instant and ended up being confused - because the Secretary of State began by saying that he understands the sensitivity and relevance of the topic, which is already more than the Prime Minister admitted last week, when he said that there is no problem because the average benefit is below €472. I was hoping that the government would recognize the problem. Soon thereafter I lost hope, when I heard him repeat the arguments of the Liberal Initiative, following those same arguments in an ode to the greatness of the government, because only the government does! Well, there is no government anymore and therefore only the government can do. Comparative terms do not exist: the government can do little, and yet only the government does, because there is only one government. After that, it got worse. He said the increase in interest rates was normal and people would have to get used to it. Therefore, taking as an example a benefit of €278 in an income of €850, with an increase of €82, where an effort rate goes from 33 % to 42 %, almost half of the income will pay the benefit to the housing and the Secretary of State said: Hang on! We don't care, get used to it. Plan your income better, see better when you sign a home credit contract, your responsibility is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u129	That's not what I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u130	That's what the Secretary of State said. Then he said the opposite. First he said he rejected the Left Block projects because they move under the contractual conditions of the banks, then say that the government will present a proposal in which it will change the contractual conditions of the banks! Therefore, of the two, one : or the proposal which the Government says it will present has no impact, because it does not move into anything that the banks would not do on a voluntary basis; or it has an impact, and, if it has, it will change the contractual conditions, as Mr. Secretary of State admitted. Now, assuming that the proposal has an impact and will change the contractual conditions, Mr. Secretary of State has just lost the argument to reject the Block's proposals. So tell me, please, in the various things that you have presented in this confusing intervention, what is the position of the government...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u131	My speech was absolutely clear!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u132	... and, more than that, what is the argument to reject the concrete proposals that the Block brings to debate and that they can solve the problem of people. If you have not noticed, the benefit is now rising in October and the State budget comes into force in January. Tell people how they will live until January, because « they get used to it! I don't think it's a very smart answer. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u133	To make a request for clarification, Mrs Vera Braz of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u134	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, for the Socialist Party, the financial instability of families has been and will always be a concern, and in the current context it will not be different. The European Central Bank, as responsible for maintaining stable prices in the face of the galloping increase in inflation, adopted at the same rate an increase in interest rates contributing to the return of this inflation. According to the ECB, inflation is hampering people's lives, and hence their rapid performance. It happens, Mr Secretary of State, that rising interest rates will certainly not facilitate the lives of people, of our families, especially the most vulnerable, who have already extended their budget to meet the costs incurred. The Portuguese have been debating in recent years with difficult periods of particular economic and social impact. We went through a financial crisis, from which we recovered, and we resumed a growth path of our economy, with measures to support investment and increase incomes; an unpredictable pandemic, in which measures have also been taken to protect jobs and consequently incomes; and without even letting us breathe through a war, which puts us again to the test and which requires the same response capacity, to ensure that the Portuguese maintain their quality of life. With the measures you have already taken, to combat the increase in the cost of fuel and energy and, more recently, with the Family First Programme, this government is not at the flavour of the wind, it is responding to the needs of the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The governments of the Socialist Party, in the face of the different contexts of uncertainty and adversity, have always kept the focus on families and businesses, but today we have to find a difficult balance between the stability of the financial system and the right to housing. There is a current reality to which we cannot escape and which must be answered. The Portuguese know, and have recognized it through the absolute majority that they have given to the Socialist Party, that only the Socialist Party will always act, at every moment, in the face of the difficulties of families, in a directed way, supporting the most vulnerable, fighting poverty and ensuring social justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u135	That's it now! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u136	It is gratifying that we see the government announce targeted measures to combat the rise in interest rates,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u137	What measures?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u138	... but, Mr. Secretary of State, what I ask you is whether the Portuguese can continue to count on the path outlined in protecting and valuing incomes for our families, which allow them to continue to live with the quality of life they deserve. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u139	To reply, Mr. Secretary of State of the Treasury, João Nuno Mendes, has the floor to congratulate.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u140	I would also like to congratulate you, Madam President. I would like to begin by responding to the last intervention. As Mrs Vera Braz said, we are reminded of this effect of the rapid rise in interest rates because of that which has been the position of the central banks in the fight against inflation, which, of course, is much higher than we would all expect, which exacerbates the circumstance. I am counting on the Government, of course with the support of the Socialist Party's parliamentary board, to continue with a policy of enhancing incomes. In fact, in my speech, I had the opportunity to point out clearly that this issue of housing, of increasing the costs of providing housing, could not be seen without considering what increases we will have next year, what State budget we will have next year and what income agreement we will have for the medium term. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, I thank you for your intervention, which was also in order to appeal to the continued responsibility of the Government. On the questions raised by Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block : you know, Mrs Deputy, I made an intervention of great honesty and seriousness. It is not serious to say that interest rates from 2 % to 3 % are not normal. As a market expert and with my career practice, I have to be serious about saying clearly in this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u141	That's not what's at stake!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u142	Secondly, I would like to say to you that we are against a number of measures which the Left Block repeatedly presents to call into question the legal certainty of credit contracts to housing, raising a doubt as to what guarantees exist. in this matter we do not agree. Similarly, the honourable Member should have the intellectual honesty to say that all the measures he proposed, in the seat of a bank moratorium and for the resolution of the end of the bank moratorium, have repeatedly failed.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u143	What did we propose? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u144	It was the Government and the Ministry of Finance that managed this process, with total rigour and no impact on the economy, families, the banking system, with an unprecedented increase in credibility in the context of the assessment, by investors, of our public debt. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to the question of the Committee on Early Depreciation for Loans at variable rates, this shows that the Government knows the law, which knows the limitations already in legal decrees and that it believes that this matter is essential for better proposals and better competition in the banking sector. This just shows that we have courage. We have the courage to load on those points that can make the difference to achieve objective things for families. what we do not like is a logic of putting forward proposals that at the end of the day seems to solve the problems all but deceive people, because of the illusion of a facility that they will not have. The proposals of the Left Block aim to create the illusion of a facility that we will not have.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u145	Have you read them?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u146	More: we have a set of policies in the government aimed at the most vulnerable people, and we have to balance this interest rate evolution in front of us. Only with regard to public debt next year will we have an additional EUR 1 billion, which all Portuguese will bear. That's what it's like to tell the Portuguese the truth. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] I don't think your proposals are bad. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u147	So tax the bank!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u148	To make a request for clarification, Mr Bernardo Blanco, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u149	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State, I begin by saying that this is always the case. I think the Left Block has nothing against you in accusing him of being liberal, this is really against us. The Liberal Initiative lives in the head of the Block and doesn't even pay income! [[Applause from the IL.]] The speech Mr. Secretary of State made — this is a rare moment, I do not usually do this! — seriously and with data, in my view, it does not usually happen when the government comes here. this time, it was made with the seriousness this House deserves.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u150	It's a big convergence!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u151	What happened in this last intervention was basically a class at the Left Block. A very good class, since the PS, in previous interventions, did not give it. [[Laughing.]] [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u152	Nobody needs to say anything else!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u153	Current interest rate values are normal. Abnormal was what happened in the last decade, but that basically no party had the courage to say. That is why, even to mention Mário Centeno — as a technician, I think the Block trusts him, because he has approved all the budgets of him! — and remember two things. The first, which has been mentioned here, is that in adjusted terms of income developments, the benefit is today 60 % of the benefit that existed in 2019. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] In addition, the lowest benefits up to € 106 are around 10 % and the estimated increase is about 4 %. So I ask you whether the government is going to lower any of the essential goods taxes. It would suffice to download one of them and would already be enough to return this number in purchasing power to people with lower incomes. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u154	Secondly, with regard to the highest benefits — the highest 10 % is above €470, and here are the most serious increases — it seems to us that this is where the government urgently has to do two things. The first is to update the steps of the IRS to inflation, as we have already defended, so I ask you if it will. The second, which I doubt most of all, is to promote a drastic decline in the IRS. I'd like to know if you're gonna do any of these things. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u155	To make a request for clarification, Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u156	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State, it is good to see that the Government has agreed on the Portuguese problem, which, being similar to others, has some characteristics that affect us. This is the case, as you know, of most Portuguese people have variable rates in their housing credit, in addition to relatively long loan periods. I noticed that you did a very careful intervention, and you did it because you were treading fine ice. You did a careful intervention because, at the same time as you said a word of hope, you warned that this will always be so; at the same time as you made progress with a generic proposal, you said that people have to get used to it. I make a statement of interest, because I also have, look at yourself and say, "What was the proposal that the Secretary of State made to me? Do not keep on seeking. ” It's just that all of this, in addition to being at the sauces, has a problem: you can't even identify. Which of the proposals, exactly, can you touch each of the Portuguese? You did not implement the proposals, stating « what it can be, what it can be...». I ask you: will you present them in the State budget? On the basis of the principle that the government has studied this, as it seems to have studied, I ask: what is the impact of these measures? How many families and how many contracts can be reached, and how much value?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u157	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u158	What value does the State intend to allocate for this purpose? And what is the impact of this on the relationship with the bank itself? With the answer to this we will be a little more convinced. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u159	For clarifications, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u160	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, interest rates are indeed increasing in an accelerated way, which is having a very significant impact on people's lives, while wages lose purchasing power, also in a very significant way, and an increase of €100, €150 or €200 actually makes all the difference in people's lives.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u161	It's normal!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u162	This is the question: in view of this reality, what does the government intend to do to prevent families from entering into a situation of non-compliance? This is the question that requires an answer. Mr Secretary of State, we have brought a number of proposals and I would like to tell you that we have proposed that the Government can move forward with a special process of mediated renegotiation, with intervention by the Banco de Portugal, to defend the interests of those who are most fragile in this relationship, which are families. We have also proposed, as regards the role of the Government in the financial system, particularly in the General Deposit Box, that the Government may intervene in fixing a maximum ceiling not only for new contracts but also in renegotiating contracts. This would allow for concrete, direct and fundamental intervention, which is to protect the housing of families. This is the question that arises, in order to prevent families from entering into situations of non-compliance and to protect housing. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u163	To reply, Mr. Secretary of State of the Treasury, João Nuno Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u164	Perhaps my final intervention would begin by responding to Mrs Paula Santos of the Portuguese Communist Party. We agree with the diagnosis referred to and with the aim of preventing an entry into a situation of non-compliance. The mechanism I described to you, which we will seek to implement legislatively, aims to create this renegotiation framework whenever the rate of effort increases with meaning or when, even at the initiative of the client or family, there is a anticipation that this increase in the rate of effort will happen. This, precisely so that there is protection from the most fragile, who, above all, want to protect their home. Historically, we know how much people want, above all, to protect their home. Therefore, this purpose, we assure you, will be endorsed in the proposal that the Government intends to carry out. Regarding the issues raised by the Liberal Initiative and the Social Democratic Party, I would like to stress that this discussion was preceded by the discussion of the Budget. Therefore, the government will deal with this issue in terms of income, in the income agreement we intend to achieve, and also in budgetary terms, in addition to this legislative initiative to the banking sector. As I say, we are not talking about something that we have not already implemented in the past, in which it has reached tens of thousands of renegotiations. This has happened normally, and that is what we want, but we must also be aware that we have an amendment here that changes the benefits of the Portuguese houses. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u165	Mr Hugo Carneiro, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u166	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At this session, we discussed a wide range of proposals from various parties which are allegedly aimed at responding to the difficulties that families are experiencing. Deep down, what we have is a true street sales of ideas, some of which are collected from the Diaries of the Assembly of the Republic. It is appropriate to say « old tyre painted again». Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there are also proposals that should be considered negative because they are original when, in fact, they are closer to the plagiarism. Otherwise, let's see: the Left Block, which gave rise to this session, presents the idea of ending the debt of someone who has credit to the housing if they give up their house for payment. Looks new, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u167	No, it's not new!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u168	But it is not new, this idea had already appeared, at least, in the XII legislature.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u169	It's from the 19th century!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u170	It happens exactly the same with the impermenability of the first dwelling. Therefore, «old tyre painted again». By the way, until the PS, when it was not a government, had already proposed the same on the debt in payment in the XII Legislation. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u171	Will the PS now, which is not afraid to use its majority, approve the Bill No. 326 / XV / 1. The Left Block? The Left Block also proposes that people may demand the renegotiation of their credits, which may lead a debtor to see his debt terminated when he is 80, 90, 100, all on behalf of maintaining the effort rate. Is this possible? On the proposals of the moratoriums, three parties presented solutions. The Left Block and the Arrival presented two almost identical documents, even with phrases isi words. What a coincidence! Have they had the same concern and joined together? Oh, my God! We don't know.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u172	He's getting in the wrong way!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u173	But we know this: whoever has an increase in house service of €50 or €100 can, imagine, ask for nothing to pay. Nothing at all!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u174	You must have broken income!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u175	This is what these proposals are for. The problem is not therefore the environment, it is really an ideological problem. [[PSD applause.]] Who can't pay, who can't pay and who can pay, doesn't pay at all! So you pay when? You don't know. One day, maybe. We then have the amendments to the IRS, in which the NAP and the Arrival present something, too, very similar. We do not overlook the possibility that, in due course, we can equalise an increase in the deductions to tax collection or relief measures in the IRS, but there is a basic problem, which has already been mentioned at the time of the questions and is as follows: the effects of these measures will only be felt in 2024.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u176	And the PSD presents what?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u177	The PCP also presents a project for fixing spreads of the General Deposit Box. It is a proposal that reminds us of that other one, presented in the X Legislation, but at the time they proposed a spread of 0.5%. Today, they're more committed. It is appropriate to say « old stories told again». Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What the Government here has brought us, by the voice of Mr. Secretary of State, is no more than a test tube without a timetable. The PS cut EUR 1 billion to pensioners, did not deliver the macroeconomic framework to the parties, as suggested by the President of the Republic, and does not really deal with this issue here or outside.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u178	Nice stories!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u179	Until the Socialist Party continues to use its majority to ignore the Portuguese economic situation? Test tubes are not enough. Net monthly income per worker, in the second quarter of this year, amounts to €1039, a miserable value for someone to dream of, even having their own home. The productivity of the hour worked in Portugal, compared to the European average in 2021, was 54 %, 6 % and reduced by the values of other years. Where's the PS?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u180	Next to the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u181	We need to create economic conditions in the country so that young people and other citizens do not always have to count all the coughs they have. by the sights, for this debate, none of the parties that came here showed real interest. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To conclude, I must say that it is a fact that families are already facing an increase in the cost of living, and that is why the PSD will present proposals to help them, but this debate does not run out in an accelerated plenary session,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u182	It doesn't wear out or start!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u183	...to debate ideas collected, loaded with ideology or whose effect is not as immediate as is deceptively sold. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u184	To make a request for clarification, Mr Pedro Anastácio, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u185	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is interesting to see that, in all this intervention and in the analysis they have done here, the PSD presents itself in two ways. The first is without any proposal, although the head of your party has already announced the intention to present proposals on this subject.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u186	Chiefs are in your party, there are no bosses here!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u187	The head of your party...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u188	The president!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u189	... announced the intention to submit proposals, but the PSD is here without any proposal to submit. Then, confronted with proposals from the Government of the Republic, the PSD, wanting to be the main party of the opposition, says: « that is not with me, about it I have no thought about it, about it I have no ideas! Do not keep on seeking. ” So is the state of the right, so is the state of the PSD. [[P.S.'s applause.]] More curious is that VV. Ex., on the path they have made to recover those proposals from the past of the Left Block, they have not been able to recover your proposal from the so-called "Crist Law", which has promoted and aggravated the crisis of housing in this country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So, my lords, knowing that VV. Ex. are given to selective memory and that forgetfulness abounds, what I wanted to ask is whether, when they come to speak in the crisis of the housing in which the country lives, the PSD shares the attitude of Carlos Moedas, who, in the Lisbon Chamber, in the city government, said an attack on local housing is an attack on democracy in the country. Therefore, we thank you for your reflection on housing, but we know that the Portuguese, of you, expect nothing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u190	In reply, Mr Hugo Carneiro of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u191	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to thank Mr Pedro Anastácio of the Socialist Party for the issues he has raised. I'll start with the end. Regarding the questions you have asked about Carlos Moedas, I suggest that you may eventually clarify these questions in the Municipal Assembly. I think you have a seat in this instance and can therefore clarify them there. [[PS protests.]] Regarding the law of incomes and the past which he also mentioned, he suggested that if he disagrees so much with that law, use the majority of the PS! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u192	Use the majority of PS. [[PSD applause.]] I am not going to say that it was your boss — that I don't have this disillusionment! — but it was your Secretary-General who had already said not to be afraid to use the majority. So use it and change the income law. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u193	Now, with regard to the Government's proposal, I really did not know what it was, and I would ask the President to help possibly question DAPLEN (Full Service Support Division) about any government proposal in Parliament, because I do not know it. I heard here a test tube of ideas, which you don't know very well what they are and what their schedule is. [[PSD applause.]] Mr President, let me tell you, in conclusion, that, probably because you are preparing your question, I understand that, because sometimes we need to do it quickly, at the moment, you have not heard the final part of my speech. I will repeat: this debate does not go out in a hasty plenary session,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u194	Hurryed up why?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u195	...to debate ideas collected, loaded with ideology or whose effect is not as immediate as, deceptively, is sold. What's the point, Mr. Deputies? I think I answered what you asked me. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u196	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Begonha of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u197	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's debate takes place in the context of an inflation crisis that has caused the greatest increase in the cost of living in the last 30 years and, contrary to what has happened in the past, the government has not given the Portuguese to luck or chance of cyclical and cyclical crises. It remained firm and consistent in the face of the strong role that the State should play at times like the one we live in. Today's debate takes place in the context of an inflation crisis that the Government has already responded to with a set of measures that benefit all generations, without leaving out the commitment to access to housing. by limiting the maximum update of the value of income to 2 %, we minimized the worsening of the already inappropriate rental costs and acted in coherence with a policy of public intervention in housing and income protection. Today we have also seen this debate say that monitoring the evolution of the economic and social scenario, the inflation crisis, the behaviour of interest rates and their very real impact on Portuguese income is essential and, therefore, today, the presentation of measures. The effect of the inflation crisis on the benefits of family housing credit is, without subterfuges or for those who do not run away from reality, a major concern for the country, the Socialist Party and the Government. If it is true that we live an exceptional time of abnormally low rates and what we now see is an evolution of interest rates to levels that we would previously consider normal, we also say today that, as we did in the pandemic, as the effects of the crisis are known or anticipated with people, we will not fail to take measures to protect families and their incomes and, equally important, to safeguard access to housing. The context of today's debate - and the context matters - is that we are four days away from getting into this House in dialogue with the country, a political moment in which we do not just debate the urgent short-term measures but look at the time that has passed, look at the past with a critical sense and define the policies for the transformation of the future that we aspire to. This is the time for the discussion of the State budget. Therefore, it is worth a debate which is also about the right to housing, to reflect on the crisis so referred, that it is not conjuncural, but structural, in relation to housing,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u198	There is no crisis, according to you!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u199	...to understand that not all the proposals discussed here today look to the future. For decades, it was believed that the market would resolve access to housing and the minimalist vocation of housing policy in Portugal was almost exclusively directed to support credit and purchase of housing, devaluing and discrediting the size of the lease. In contrast to many European countries, we do not invest in the creation of a public housing park, which combined the effects of the liberalisation of the lease market, which the right parties would like to resurrect, and we exclude the middle class of housing policy, which the right assistantist would also like to return to. The result is a serious crisis of housing shortage at a price that families, young people, the middle class in general can bear.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u200	Thank Socrates for that!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u201	To respond to this crisis, we started in 2015 looking to the future, investing in the regulated housing market and not giving up to speculation, to which only a public park of universal response housing for several classes and generations can respond and intervene in prices, without leaving behind the greatest housing shortages in this country, with which we are absolutely committed to eradicate in the present and in the future with 1. the law and other answers. A structural and lasting political response, which, as we all know, will take years to realize, will require a lot of investment, but which is urgent in our country and only the PS has the courage to carry out. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We do not ignore the short-term or social emergency needs and answers such as those we live in, because people have to take place in the present, they have to live better in the present, and that is why we must also say, on the eve of the time of the discussion of the State budget, that we are committed to strengthening housing, we are committed to the strengthening of wages. On the budgetary side or not, by converging the PS or not with the concrete solutions discussed here today, there is a guarantee that we can leave to the country: unlike 10 years ago, Portuguese can tell that the government will not let the economic and social situation deteriorate, as in the past, with a rate of unemployment and impoverishment that has reached historical numbers, as when the right has governed the country and caused the greatest social backwardness of memory in democracy. This is the legacy on the right. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u202	Madam Member, the Bureau shall record two entries for requests for clarification. How do you want to answer? Both together?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u203	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u204	All right. To make the first request for clarification, Mr José Soeiro, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u205	Madam President, Madam Member, the Socialist Party comes to this debate without any proposal and, therefore, the honourable Member cannot only speak of any proposal as it has not even commented on the proposals under discussion. He spoke of the 125 € package, which will be consumed at the rise of the next benefit, talked about the incomes, which are not under discussion in this schedule, and shot forward, for the State Budget, for what Mr. Secretary of State had spoken of the income agreement. He's talking about the past, he's making a diagnosis of structural problems, but what about now?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u206	Now let's have the State Budget!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u207	This problem is now. And now there's nothing you can do about it? Isn't it important? Isn't it urgent? Can you wait? Can't you do anything now that people are getting higher benefits and distress to pay them? And then, of course, he praised the government. Mrs Deputy, I don't know if you heard the same government as me. Did you hear Mr. Secretary of State speaking? The Secretary of State of the Government of the Socialist Party was here to give a lesson on the functioning of the markets, which, in fact, did the delights of the Liberal Initiative, as if the role of political power, as if the role of the Government were to be the rapporteur resigned or fascinated by the logic and interests of the markets. We have not been elected by the markets, we are not here representing the markets. We have been elected by the people who are afflicted and who in the next month will have an increase in the benefit they cannot afford, who have already lost purchasing power, who will not have any increases in wages and who need answers from the democratic political power. The democratic political power serves to respond to people, does not serve to come here to praise the markets or to guarantee the legal security of the markets when people do not have the security of a constitutional right, which is the right to housing, which is in the Constitution. The right to have a house is a human right, we have to guarantee and do not say that nothing can be done. What the Block here is proposing are enforceable measures, reasonable measures, concrete measures, consistent measures. The only reason why you should not move forward is indifference, sectarianism, which does not even allow debate in the specialty, submission to the interests of the bank — you cannot move in the legal security of banking business — or then a religious belief in market laws, even when the laws of the market have as a promise and as an effect to break down with families and their right to housing, families who do not have the ability to pay benefits because they do not have wages to pay them, even above all because the Socialist Party, in such income agreement, does not even propose an increase in wages in line with inflation. So I ask you: when a family gives the house to the bank, why is it necessary to keep the debt on a property that has already been handed over to the bank? Why does the Socialist Party defend that? Why did we have a moratorium regime in the pandemic and now come to say that it is impossible to create a moratorium regime? Why? We've already created it. Why is that impossible? Why does the Socialist Party not weigh and even accept to discuss this? When we propose a consistent measure to avoid the abrupt increase in the rate of effort of those who have a housing loan—which goes, in fact, in line with international and national recommendations on which the rate of effort in the income of a family should be, why can't this be advanced? It's just that this, yes, is a measure that makes all the difference. As has already been said, it is the difference, for a person who has an income of 800 and such euros and who has a benefit of 270 €, between whether you will pay 87 € next month or whether you will pay 16 €. Why can't this move forward? Madam Member, the Socialist Party, in the face of this drama that is announced for many families, has not today put forward any proposal, indeed, was more than no proposal, nor has it even accepted to discuss the proposals that the Left Block brought here. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u208	Mr Alma Rivera, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u209	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Maria Begonha speaks of courage, but of what courage? We can't understand! It is that for which courage is needed, which is to regulate the market, to repeal the law of PSD evictions, to condition housing prices, the PS is absent, has no courage. When it is necessary to face economic groups, the PS shrinks.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u210	That's the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u211	So it is unacceptable to come here to speak up with courage. It is necessary to have the courage to make this speech with a problem of the size we have, with families to be clear, with young people who will not leave their parents' home, who will not constitute families, who will not have children for the political options that have been followed not only by PS but also by PSD. You also need to have the courage to come here, as some of you came. Members, undoing the proposals of others, concrete proposals, proposals that put as their primary objective not the protection of markets, not the protection of real estate funds, but the protection of families. It takes real courage to come up with this conversation. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u212	In reply, Mrs Maria Begonha of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u213	Madam President, I would like to thank the questions raised by the Left Block and the CFP. In replying first to the Left Block, I believe that you have not heard my speech either. In my speech, I gave a compliment, yes, I spoke of courage, but in relation to a policy followed by this government, to a courageous reform, yes, because — as you know and any debate on housing that we have well revealed — a housing policy that seeks to make a structural, lasting and persistent reform in the country takes years to realize, to create a public housing park, because, as you also know, in contrast with many European countries, we have one of the smallest public parks.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u214	Okay! But what about the front? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u215	That has reason and I have spoken about these reasons in my speech. If you have heard my speech, you know that I did not devalue—there seems to be an opportunistic equalization of the Socialist Party's policy to the right,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u216	Let's vote the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u217	... in which we do not see ourselves — the factor of market liberalization, I did not devalue the factor of speculation, for which many factors compete that the Left Block also, before time, was denouncing, such as local housing and others. I haven't devalued the causes, and the causes are collective. I will not, in fact, exonerate the Socialist Party from historical responsibilities that, in the last decades of this country, have devalued the social dimension of housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u218	Right now!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u219	We were from countries that had less social expenditure on housing. Today, we are from the countries that invest most, we are currently a country with public investment in housing. The honourable Member says that we do not act, but this investment and this reform, as she said, is called investing in a public housing park, investing in creating housing at controlled costs, because just... [[PCP protests.]] There has already been consensus on the left that only with the creation of a public park is that we managed to intervene in prices, control prices and improve access to housing. [[PCP protests.]] If the gentlemen. Members of the PCP and the Left Block have a better structural proposal solution than the Government has submitted to improve access, chronic shortage and housing crisis in Portugal, we are available for this debate. [[PCP and BE protests.]] On concrete issues, such as eradicating housing shortages, we have an answer that is called 1. o Law. To improve young people's access to housing, we also have answers. [[PCP and BE protests.]] Mr José Soeiro and Mrs Alma Rivera still say that the Socialist Party here today has not discussed proposals. The Government has put forward a set of proposals and the Socialist Party, in my speech, if the Members. Ladies and gentlemen have listened carefully, said two important things. The first message was that the government and this bench must and must monitor the direction of the economic and social situation and will not cease to have measures to intervene — and certainly this is a social emergency — when the Portuguese need it. It was like this during the pandemic and it will be like this now. You're going to excuse me, ladies and gentlemen. Members, but we cannot do in this debate the discussion of the conditioning of the alpha and the omega of all that is support for the Portuguese during this inflation crisis. We have presented a package of measures with impact to protect family income and we have a Budget to be discussed very briefly, which will certainly also strengthen the protection of family income and access to housing. This debate also does not exhaust the Socialist Party's own-initiative capacity to protect incomes and families. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u220	Mr Alexandre Poço of the PSD Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u221	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : There is a certainty that when we are discussing housing in Portugal, it is that the longer the Socialist Party governs, the harder and the longer the access to housing, especially for those who want a house to start their lives. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I know it hurts, but I'll read facts.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u222	It is! It hurts, it hurts!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u223	« Portuguese youth were the ones who later left the home of the parents in the European Union in 2021 ». The speaker posted a news from the Observer newspaper. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is anything we know, it is unfortunately seven years ago that this government has been with this girl, the Left Block and the PCP, the promised Housing Bases and Structural Reform Act. Mrs. Members, reforms, plans and programmes — I will now go to the programmes — all of this is true. What about houses? What about beds? And a place for people to make their lives? For example, when we talk about a programme with which you always fill your mouth, which is the higher education housing program, we have the following headline: "Yes, government promised to create 12,000 beds in university homes between 2019 and 2022, and it did not meet. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Right now, the speaker showed a news story.]] The PSD proposed last week — not by the head, but by the future Prime Minister of Portugal —... [[PSD applause.]] ... that progresses with immediate contractualization. The PSD has also been presenting proposals over the years to increase the scope of the Porta 65 Youth programme. And I understand why the Secretary of State for Housing has not yet participated in the debate: if we enter the housing programs, then it is the complete disaster. Let's go to Gate 65. In 2021 there were 43% rejected applications, 20,000 candidates and 11,000 approved. That is, we have a national housing programme for young people, Porta 65, in which 4 out of 10 candidates don't even have an answer. And we're not talking about millions of candidates, we're talking about 20,000 candidates. This is the reality. Gate 65 is a fiasco! But we can also go, for example, to the Accessible Rent Programme — another socialist promise, one more plan, one more promise, one more home for everyone. In 2019 - 2022, in the Accessible Rent Program, there were 1000 contracts and 868 approved. That is, when you're talking about housing, you fill your mouth with programs, plans, promises, 1. o Law. Well, this looks like a great country! [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] We go out and talk to people and, in affordable rental, to young people, to student housing and now to the increase in interest rates, there are no results. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u224	This is what people who see us at home ask: why so many promises, so flat, so effective, if they have not produced any after all? I understand that these truths hurt, because they are the real facts of the lives of the Portuguese, of which you are completely disconnected. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u225	The Bureau does not have any registration for clarification at this time. For an intervention, Mr Hugo Costa of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u226	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate which the Left Block has scheduled for today is a crucial debate for the lives of the Portuguese, but also took place a few days before the presentation of the State budget for the year 2023 and also other government measures. thus, it is a debate that aims only to seek facts and news, aiming to anticipate measures, given that we are above the debate, in general and later speciality, of the State budget. This debate is, therefore, extemporaneous on the delivery of the Budget. Even tomorrow, BE will be received by the government for the debate on the budget and the macroeconomic scenario. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u227	The absolute majority is raising their heads! That's all I needed!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u228	This is how the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, first of all, welcomes the replies that the Government has presented in this debate to respond to families, particularly on the increase in interest rates. We must have answers and defend the most vulnerable ones, particularly in the defense of their home, the most important good that Portuguese families have.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u229	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u230	Our focus must be on income, and that is the focus of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. This debate, on our right, was just the market response, and the despair was such that they tried to create a fact with the approval of a request, approved unanimously in the hearings, which was said here that it had not been approved. We well know that for a certain right, inflation is merely a monetary phenomenon and the rise in interest rates is a natural effect of inflation. However, this issue is of greatest relevance to the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. This debate is therefore crucial. Housing is a central theme in PS's public policies. This has been the case with such important themes as programme 1. the Law and the Basic Law of Housing. This is how, in the pandemic crisis, with the moratoriums, we protect the individual address. That's how we protect the evictions in the pandemic as well. And that is how we have prevented the blind application of the so-called "Christian Law" over the years. We well know that this was always the design of the right, purely and simply, the market operating in housing, but it was also so that, in the pandemic, through the moratoriums, we prevented the credits to housing from being a central problem for Portuguese families. Today, with the invasion of the Russian Federation of Ukraine, we have an inflationist crisis and, of course, this is reflected in interest rates. The Government of the Socialist Party presents responses to families, responses that aim to mitigate energy costs, which aim to prevent the loss of income and to defend the most fragile. And, among these measures, we have the central measure to prevent an increase in incomes of more than 2 %. This is a crucial measure in the housing, that I know the whole left can communicate. As far as credit for housing is concerned, of course we have a problem. Obviously we can discuss whether Portugal is an over-credited country to housing, we can discuss whether Portugal, throughout history and contrary to other countries, has become a historically little country linked to the rental market and more linked to its own housing. This is certainly a situation that brings greater risks to families, but that is another debate. This is not the country in which we live and Portugal is a country where Portuguese are very dependent on credit to housing. I want to stress that the stock of the housing debt is today lower than it was in 2011, but it is increasing. I would like to stress that interest has been extremely low at European level in credit for housing, and that is why it is normal to grow, as the Government has said. Especially at a time when inflation is rising, it is natural to respond to interest rates, but we have to look at families and answer them. So for families to have the capacity, we have to look at them, at families who had their family expenses and at the organization of their family budget based on a type of benefit. It is important today to look at these families and that is also the plan of the Socialist Party. These are the answers that the Socialist Party is available to work in the State budget and also in the future, because Portugal is not alone in this area and all the rules at bank level must be worked at European level, responding to the obligations of the European market at bank level and to those responsibilities, which we do not see in many proposals that today can make large headlines but do not solve problems because they are impossible to carry out in the European monetary system. So if in the context of the moratoriums we had a sense of response at European level today we do not find that feeling in Europe. Of course, the Socialist Party, in the State Budget and also with the proposals put here by the Government, will continue to be available to work on this issue, so relevant to Portuguese families. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u231	Mr Filipe Melo, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u232	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: First of all, allow me to thank the PSD and Mr Carneiro for the proposals they did not bring to this debate, but they came here to criticize others. That's the PSD path. All right! [[Congrats from the CH.]] It should be noted for this debate that it is important to see that, in December last year, we had a negative Euribor rate, but now, Mr Secretary of State, let us go with 1, 25, it is estimated to end this month in 2 % and some data from the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development) point out that by next year we will reach 4 %. I ask you, I ask you, if the Socialist Government has any idea how many families will go into non-compliance. Many of them will be evicted—it is guaranteed! — because they will not be able to pay the rents, they will not be able to cope with the loans they have in the bank,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u233	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u234	...and the eviction of many other families is ongoing. Mrs. Secretary of State for Housing is here, Mr. Minister for Protection is not here. Probably went to open up some more railroads and he couldn't be here today. But it is important to realize that, next door, in Almada, if it was not a cautious providence, families would go to the middle of the street, be evicted or then put in tents, as was the Government's proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u235	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u236	Mrs. Members of the Government, it is by these and others that the Socialist Government continues to postpone these, so important, housing issues, and continues to deny that there are problems in housing and that there is no recession. This reminds me, frankly, of the government and the Titanic band, who kept playing, playing, playing, while the ship sank. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u237	Mr Prime Minister said, in this regard, that the effect of raising the interest rate on housing financing contracts is the subject of analysis by the Government. It then accepts the creation of some support, in conjunction with the Portuguese Banking Association. The Portuguese Banks Association, in turn, recommends caution to the Government and advises transitional solutions. So no one understands. The government gives the saying by not saying,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u238	Come on, let's go!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u239	... then comes the Association contradicting and still comes the Banco de Portugal, whose Governor is appointed by this government, saying that there are no problems, that the rises are worrying, yes, but there will be no failure. Mrs. Members of the government, there are decorations, put the families first and leave these accounts there. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u240	Mr Bernardo Blanco, of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u241	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The arrival brings us here today a measure concerning Port 65 Youth where it expands the range of beneficiaries of the Port 65 Youth programme. I have a very quick question: how old is he? In practice, with this proposal, a couple aged 35 and 40 can have access. As the renovations go from two to eight years, in practice, a couple of 43 and 48 years old at the end may be covered by this proposal. I do not know if this is a proposal here for the majority of Members, who will certainly be young in spirit but no longer so old, but this age seems to me to be a manifestly exaggerated age to be considered young. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u242	We have no further registration of parliamentary groups at this time. The Secretary of State for Housing has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u243	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's debate has ended by being wider than a debate on housing credit, because it was essentially a debate on the guarantee and the need to safeguard access to a constitutional right that is the right to housing. And this concern, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, we share it, because we effectively share it with the measures, what we want to safeguard — in the analysis being made by the government — is that guarantee, is the guarantee that families are not deprived of the fundamental right to housing. We have this concern because, knowing the structural reform that we are undergoing, knowing the vision we have about housing policies, we also know, and we say - contrary to what we say, that we seem to ignore the picture we have - that there is a problem of housing and that there is a structural and conjuncural response that has to be given. Mrs. Member, this is the reality. We never hide what is happening in the housing market and do not hide the need of the government to intervene and that is what we are doing. We know that the structural response — as has already been said — is based on the public housing park, based on the programmes that the PSD Member mentioned. In fact, I let you tell me what programs there would be by 2015, because I don't remember, that they would compare with the one that is the structural program of the 1. o Law. And, yes, Mrs Deputies, the municipalities are making a great effort to achieve it, but this effort is for the first time balanced with the responsibility that the central State has to exist. This is the big difference between what is being done and what has been done in the past. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, it does not devalue, because I think it is important, the effort being made in program 1. the law, in the program related to the state's devolved heritage, which has already been devalued here, but this inventory of the state's heritage is being made to put it to the service of families of lower incomes, of middle income families, of the younger ones, of which we speak, we know of this need and this is being done, only that it takes time, we have said it, and we repeat it: it takes time. We also know that these measures must be accompanied by more conjunctural responses and there are cyclical responses that determine more immediate actions over certain periods, such as what we had of the pandemic and now with the effects of rising inflation and interest rates, and that is exactly what we have come here and that will be the work we will continue to do. This is not a static work, this is an important debate, we do not devalue it and we do not devalue the evaluation of the measures presented here, but I repeat, it is a debate that is underway with the need for an immediate response that, once again, ensures that families are not left without their housing. That is the guarantee and the safeguard we want to ensure. As for the conjuncural measures, there was much talk here about Porta 65 with some ignorance, I would say, of what the program is and what the data are. The honourable Member spoke about the data from Gate 65 and how this program was a failure. I'm just going to compare the number of young people covered by Gate 65 between 2015 and 2021 and, tell you, Mr... [[That's what happened!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u244	No, Mr. Member, it is not past, it is present, it is present! The evolution and failure of Porta 65's policy is reflected in more than 24 000, or rather, to be concrete, 23 844 young people supported by Porta 65. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And I say more to you, Mr: this number is going to increase this year, with the implementation of 2022. And I say even more: in the State budget for 2023 we will be here to talk about the investment and safeguard of a commitment to strengthen Gate 65, as contained in the Government Programme. Mrs Deputies, the economic year and the State budget have been in force until December, and we, contrary to what we may sometimes understand from the past that we have had, have fulfilled what we promise. We are committed to making a revision of Gate 65 to answer some of the questions raised here, particularly at the level of the roofs of Gate 65 and to the compatibility of Gate 65 with a private lease support programme, and that is what is being done, and I can assure you that by the end of the year, as you say, the legislative authorization will be implemented for terms, as we have always said, these amendments in force in the 2023 programmes. Housing policy is not a static policy, we are not saying here that what we are doing is the only thing that can be done and that is why this is so evolutionary. We are changing Gate 65 and the rental support programme, precisely because we know the need to give a joint and structural response, because we know the need to respond at this time to the issue of housing credit and because we know that we have to continue in this dialogue, which also serves to improve our policies, I hope, in order to continue to realize the right to housing, privileged, but above all, by strengthening the important role of the municipalities in this policy, strengthening the role of the 1. the law, the role of the housing park at affordable costs, which is being built — a public park that will remain sustainable and lasting in the territory — is so different from what has been done over the last decades, and discussing the conjunctural responses in today's debate, in the State Budget, and here we will be to continue discussing to improve access to housing. We know that there is an urgent response to families and we know that there is a need for the State to be present in these responses. That is what we have done and that is what we will continue to do in this debate and in the next proposals we will discuss here in the State Budget for 2023. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u245	The Secretary of State has three requests for clarification to which, I presume, she will answer in a bloc. I give the floor to Mr Bernardo Blanco's first request for clarification of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u246	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I would like to ask what you think of the measure of age enlargement of the beneficiaries of Gate 65. Secondly, and more importantly, I would like to ask whether it agrees with the disparity presented by the Left Block in relation to the markets. In fact, what are the markets? It's people and businesses that trade freely. The markets are also the Left Block, with its large headquarters worth millions ; the markets are also Ricardo Robles, when it bought, remodeled and sold a building with many more value; the markets are also Catarina Martins, who bought land, remodeled and made a local accommodation. [[BE's protests.]] Markets are also your own and so it's so weird that they spend all the time saying bad about yourself as well. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u247	For a request for clarification, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u248	Mr. President, Mr. Bernardo Blanco, do not despair, because the despair approaches you from arriving and the arrival is bad company. [[CH protests.]] The debate ended by being broader than housing credit, because the PSD and PS were interested in discussing all less housing credit, because they did not bring forward proposals for discussion. The public housing park does not solve the problem of rising interest rates and, Mr. State Secretary, to families facing the increase in benefits does not matter if the 2 % rate is normal or not. If Mr Secretary of State wants to have a theoretical debate on the natural interest rate, if he wants to discuss Wicksell's concepts on the interest rate, I have great pleasure in doing so with you; now, he does not give a lesson to this plenary about the difficulties people feel every day, because on the end of the month account it does not matter whether the rate is normal or not, what matters is whether there is more than 100 € to pay the benefit. That's all that matters! We are Members and you are Government, because you have an obligation to give answers to families and not to teach economic lessons, from the top, finally, with all the subservience, as Mr Secretary of State did. The PS devalued the measures that were brought to debate and the Secretary of State of Housing again devalued them when he wanted to comment on the proposal for a young lease, but not the proposals to combat the problem of increasing interest rates in housing credit. So I ask you, Madam Secretary of State, how has it not been said about this, if you share the ideas of Mr. Secretary of State of the Treasury, that all the proposals that the Block brought here are garbage and that none of them can protect the right to housing? Is limiting the effort rate garbage? If the donation in breach, in force in the United States of America, is it garbage? If the « Rent for Habitat » programme, which was in force in the past in the United Kingdom, Scotland, Wales, is it garbage? This is what I would like the Secretary of State to answer. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u249	Mr Miguel Cabrita has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u250	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Madam Secretary of State, I would like to begin by saying that it is a pleasure to be able to address this question because this means that the PS has a Secretary of State for Housing, which is more than any PSD government can tell us about the years in which they were in power in Portugal. It's more than you can say! [[P.S.'s applause.]] But it is not the mere existence of a member of the government ; it is in fact the PSD and the right that have difficulty putting themselves in this debate because it seems that they do not live in the same country as we do. It frightens me to see Mr. Alexandre Poço, a short time ago, ask questions here about what happened since 2019 and talk about lack of results. But didn't we have a pandemic for two years? Are we not now at a particularly difficult time in Portuguese markets and society? [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is amazing that questions have been asked about evolution since 2019 as if we had not been, not in the same country, but on the same planet. In fact, in a few minutes, the Secretary of State was able here to announce a set of programmes that show that the PS and the PS government have had a housing policy: a Housing Bases Act, a public housing policy, the greatest investment of the PRR since the last decades in Portugal...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u251	The PRR?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u252	...to cover this dimension of public policy, Gate 65, rental support, 1. the law, the local housing strategies involving municipalities, as never was done in this country. [[PSD protests.]] And in this definition they may not want to talk about authorities for the policy of Carlos Moedas, in Lisbon, for example. Maybe that's it! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Secretary of State, in her brief intervention here, has demonstrated well that there are policies, there are results, that these policies must continue and that they are particularly interesting policies and results to deal with a complex issue, which has very significant impacts on the lives of families and also on financial issues, so we must not leave this part of the equation out. But we, when we talk about markets—and this is just a parenthesis, because, a little while ago, the honourable Members. Members of the Liberal Initiative asked for lessons from the PS and I would like to express a disagreement with the bench that recently raised this issue to us — we believe that markets are not people and businesses to sell and buy things, they are systems of rules, clear rules, predictable rules and that protect the various parties involved.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u253	Rules for whom?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u254	It is not just an exchange mechanism, without rules and without limits to the different parties. Mr Secretary of State, the question I would like to leave to you, exhausting my time, was whether, following what you have just said to us, the Portuguese can have the assurance and confidence that the policies that are being developed in the area of housing and the priority that has been assumed will not be challenged by a situation that is particularly adverse, and whether we can count on the Government to, regardless of its structural priorities, have responses to a situation that we all recognize, concerns Portuguese families and has an impact on Portuguese families. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u255	To reply, you have the floor of the Secretary of State for Housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u256	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the questions that have been raised. Starting with the latter, and incorporating the other questions, I would like to say that, indeed, what we can guarantee — as I said in my initial intervention — is that the structural response does not harm the need for cyclical responses, whether they are more in the medium term, such as Porta 65 or the lease support programme, at times when we live, in either the pandemic, or now the crisis with the increase in inflation and the increase in interest rates. This, I think, was clear in the debate we had here. That is why more than going into counterpoints—and it is that part which then devalues a little bit the debate that we make of the measures and, above all, of the solution and the goal we want to achieve—, rather than analyze the measure a or b, what comes out of this debate is the common objective, including that of the government, as has already been said, to allow and incorporate measures to support housing credit, regardless of which they may be. On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, Members who have asked me the question about the projects that were under discussion here, I make a point: the projects are under discussion are not only about credit to housing and, therefore, when I speak of Porta 65 is because we are also discussing the projects of Porta 65, and this extended debate because it is justified that it is so. That's my intervention. The projects on housing credit and the arguments mentioned here, more than devalue the discussion, value the need for an answer. And that's what I think we have in common, that's what we have to do in common. The concrete solution, which we have to guarantee, repeating, is that it reaches families and those who need our help to ensure that they have the right to housing. That is our principle, not to say « the market solves for itself », as we did not say from the lease market and therefore we put forward proposals. If there is a point of balance, if there are proposals that we can work together, I think that is why we are here, because we are also presenting our proposals for a final proposal. Now, the debate was marked by the Left Block, the time at which it was made was marked by the Left Block, but we do not all want the debate to be summarized only in the afternoon of today. I want to believe that, after this afternoon, regardless of what happens here, we will continue to work on the proposals to ensure the preservation of housing. I will continue, I can give you that guarantee. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, the Government will continue to work and come here to present its measures, with the necessary analysis and time. But I can give that assurance: the government will continue to work to ensure measures to safeguard the housing of families, particularly in the provision of housing. On the question of Gate 65 and on the measures to increase or not eligibility, this discussion was already held here in Parliament, in the previous Parliament, when it was established that the 30-year limit would go to 35 years. We believe that these amendments should not be made at this stage. We must strengthen the programme, of course, and we have measures to strengthen it. We do not think that it goes through the extension of the concept, which is questionable, even because it is not unanimous in all the programmes. But we believe that, indeed, this discussion has already been held and we should not reopen it. This is the Government's opinion, but of course we should continue to work on Gate 65. It is a commitment that we have, to strengthen the programme and access of families to it, as a conjunctural measure that it is. In the State budget, we will also have an opportunity to assess. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u257	For an intervention, Mr. Filipe Melo, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u258	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I just wanted to say to the bench of the Left Block and to the honourable Member that brought here the subject of the bad companies that we are not friends of the Podemos. We are not the ones who have foreign friends in Iran or Venezuela. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Much less we have friends who want to legalize drugs! These aren't our friends, they're yours. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u259	The Bureau no longer records any requests for intervention, so that, in order to close the debate, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block, has the floor, with the time available, which adds the two minutes to which he is entitled as a party that has allocated the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u260	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretarys, I am grateful that the Government has come to this debate because it has a position that is not irrelevant to the conduct of this debate. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the question, which I believe is fair, is 'Why is it urgent to debate this issue? », the answer was then given in the first sentences of the speech of Mrs Mariana Mortágua, at the opening of the debate. Between January and September, there were 20,000 families who went to the DECO to say that they were having problems paying their credit to housing. The urgency, therefore, is dictated by these 20 000 families and by all the others who have not access to the DECO but we know and who are having difficulty paying the credit to housing because interest rates are firing. But urgency is different from sobriety, because they deceive anyone who wants to deceive, but each and every one of you. Members present here know that this debate was announced almost a month ago. For this reason, he did not only make proposals who did not want or who was very laxistic, in fact, who thinks that these more than 20,000 families do not deserve the urgency to have a proposal. I find it even incomprehensible that, on the PSD side, after almost a month ago, Luís Montenegro has listed the proposals, there is not a single sample. The PSD Members say: "Well, we don't want to be rushed! We don't want to put things on the knee! » As it seems that there are people within the PSD who do not hear Luís Montenegro, I will quote in case they have not heard. He was taxing when he said on September 13 that there were solutions that the PSD would present: moratoriums, deduction of interest amounts paid in IRS housing credits or tax benefits. It was taxing! He didn't say he was going to study, said he was going to introduce them. By the way, I explain why. In case of Mr. PSD Members do not know, this is the legacy of the PSD in this debate. If anyone missed the call, not only to the country, but to your own heritage, it was the PSD. In the name of what? In the name of not doing anything. And why? Are you ladies and gentlemen? Didn't you know these proposals? I've got you on higher notice than that. I know that they knew and know these proposals, but I also read the papers and saw that, the day after Luís Montenegro had given these possibilities, making them public, came the Portuguese Banks Association saying: « Moratories? No way! » Then the PSD kneeled. And what did you do? He delivered the request. They come here to say why it is not to think of moratoriums, because it is not to think of helping families, because it is not to think of touching the bank, which has hundreds of millions of euros of profits this year. That's why. It is not forgetting, nor lack of technical quality, nor even a lack of will to legislate. It was the Portuguese Banks Association that put them in place. And that, I think, is that it is absolutely irresponsible at the time the country passes. [[Congratulations from BE.]] But they're not the only ones. It is curious how the Liberal Initiative in this area does not have a single project to present the debate either. It is true that last week they were put in place by Mr. Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister said, 'Get up there! » and they were filled with fear. Today, they looked like the best friends of the Socialist Party!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u261	What about the approved PS Budgets? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u262	Who knows, perhaps, they've been teaching to see if, in the future, there could be a blow of wings in which they can come to bed. If there can be this political proximity, what is clearly an ideological position that looks at people and banks and says they are equal. They are both on the market, they make rational choices, each one only sign what they want to sign. So you signed up, you have to comply. It's funny! It is that we remember what happened in 2007 and 2008, which took a while to arrive, but came with violence in 2010, 2011 and 2012. The banks didn't comply with what they signed. They forced the country to kneel and the Portuguese people all paid for what the banks demanded to be paid. On that, the Liberal Initiative says nothing. On the other hand, there is nothing about the adrabices — which I believe have no other name — which we all know, including the Banco de Portugal, and which are practised in banks every day. When someone asks « can I have a credit to housing? They respond on the side of the bank counter: « of course it can! "But I have no income. « But take a personal credit here and make up for everything. "And interest rates can rise? Do not keep on seeking. ” « Don't worry, they're low. They've never been so low. They're going to be permanently low! Do not keep on seeking. ” This is not an invented dialogue, because the country knows that this has been the conversation on all banks in the country. All of them! But the Liberal Initiative believes that the papals are the people who arrive there and sign because they want to and, therefore, "Look, now they love each other! This is what the Liberal Initiative has to say to those who are about to be homeless: “Now let’s go! Do not keep on seeking. ” Incomprehensible is that it is the Government to have the theoretical and ideological discourse of the Liberal Initiative in this matter. See what the government has come here to say: we will be available not to do anything, but, if something is really needed, we will make a small contractual amendment. For whom? For who's scratching to get your credit paid to the house because you don't have any money to do it? Don't! For those who have accounts in the bank and can use these other accounts to amortize your bank credit. [[Mr Pedro dos Santos Frazão's laughs.]] Of course the PS will ask soon: but is that not good? Isn't it good that they can do it without being penalized by an absurd bank fee? The answer is: it is good, the fee is absurd and should be able to do so. Now, is that going to solve any problem with who doesn't have the money to pay your account at the end of the month? No, it won't solve anything, because these are the people who are currently going to DECO, who send us e-mails and letters and who say they can't afford—not because they have another account they don't want to move, but because they can't even pay. It is therefore incomprehensible that in this matter the PS, which in the past said that there was a gula of the banks to which we had to deal, today stands before whoever attacks the banks to protect their interests. In an extraordinary way, I would end up subscribing a sentence that was said here today: when the banks demanded the country to be saved, the country went to run to save them, but now that they are the people, no one helps them.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u263	Who are you quoting?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u264	The Left Block has already said it several times, but once again, the Way came to copy what the Left Block said. [[Protests of CH Deputies.]] It is interesting that there is a lack of consistency on this subject to go to the end of the proposals. Proposals protecting families but also forcing the bank to be placed on its site, only the Left Block has. Will the banks be called to pay with the proposals of the Arrival? Not a single sample! With regard to those hundreds of millions of euros of abusive profits, not a single euro will be touched by the proposal of the Arrival. There isn't even one! "Ah, but here is an abuse, IMI is an abuse against people. They did not even make the proposal to eliminate the IMI. [[CH protests.]] They have a lot of talk, but today they haven't brought the proposal to debate. We realize that the seriousness of the debate is with those who care about families and take the proposals to the end. Safeguarding the right to housing is a guarantee of stability in people's economy and lives and of avoiding a banking crisis. Whoever stands by the banks against people will encourage people's misery and create a banking crisis. Anyone who thinks that we can wait for January to solve a problem that already puts people in difficulty today before the banks has, once again, that speech: "They endure, they endure. It's just to see if this happens! » People can't stand and, above all, they can't stand a government that doesn't want to know about them and that gives crumbs when they really need it was a saving board. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Protests of CH Deputies.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u265	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u266	Don't you have any advisors to read your proposals? They fired us all, didn't they?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u267	We close the debate and say goodbye to the government. We shall proceed to the vote. I would ask the services to open the quorum verification system. [[Pause.]] I wonder if any of you or Mr Deputies have not been able to register. Mrs Paula Santos, Mrs Joana Mortágua, Mrs Mariana Mortágua... [[Pause.]] Mrs. Joana Mortagua has already been able to register. Mrs. Mariana Mortagua is not yet. I request the services to record the presence of Mrs Paula Santos and Ms Mariana Mortágua. Anyone else? [[Pause.]] There's no one else. I ask the services to indicate the result of the quorum verification. [[Pause.]] We have quorum. We shall proceed to the vote. We will generally vote for Bill No. 325 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Creates the programme « Rent for Habitat ». [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L were rejected.]] Then we will generally vote for Bill No. 326 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Creates the regime of impermenability of the first dwelling and consecrates the donation in payment. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL and votes against the PCP, BE, PAN, L and PS MPs Alexandra Leitão and Isabel Alves Moreira were rejected.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 327 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Limits the variation in the rate of effort in housing credit. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the CFP, BE, PAN and L, votes against IL and abstentions from PS, PSD and CH.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. We shall proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 328 / XV / 1. a (BE) — establishes the exceptional regime of banking moratoriums. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS, the PS and the IL and votes against the CH, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 329 / XV / 1. a (BE) — establishes a special contribution on extraordinary profits in the banking sector. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L were rejected.]] The general vote of Bill No 242 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PCP ) — Protection of family housing. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L were rejected.]] We now vote, in general, on Bill No. 275 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Extends the range of beneficiaries of the Porta 65 Youth programme, ensuring the right to young housing. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected in favour of CH, BE and PAN and abstentions from PSD, PCP and L.]] We then generally vote on Bill No. 298 / XV / 1. a ( CH ) — Article 78 is amended. o-E of the Tax Code on the Income of Single Persons (IRS) in order to increase the percentage and limits of the deduction of housing expenses. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of CH, IL, BE and PAN and abstentions from PSD, PCP and L.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 299 / XV / 1. a (CH) — lays down measures to support and protect individuals due to increased interest rates applicable to financing contracts for the acquisition of own and permanent housing. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CH, BE and PAN and abstentions from the CFP and L.]] We proceed with the general vote of Bill No. 319 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Approves the scheme for granting credit to housing for young people. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the IL were rejected in favour of the CH, the PAN and the L and abstentions from the PSD, the CFP and the BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u268	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u269	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u270	Mr President, it is to inform us that we will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u271	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We then vote in general on Law No 320 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Approves tax measures to protect families with housing credits by amending the IRS Code and the Tax Benefit Statute. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of CH, IL, BE, PAN and L and abstentions from the PSD and the CFP.]] We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 334 / XV / 1. a ( L).
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u272	Mr President, with regard to this initiative there is a request for a discharge from the Commission, without a vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u273	The Bureau has no knowledge of him, Mr. Does the proposing party confirm that it has a request for a discharge from the Commission, without a vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u274	No, Mr. President. He's retired.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u275	All right, Mr. Deputies. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] Therefore, there is no longer a requirement, so we will generally vote for Bill No. 334 / XV / 1. a (L) — Determines that borrowers are available, to those interested in hiring a credit to their own housing or that they are parties to one, to the constant and mixed benefit scheme. It allows the renegotiation of credits when the effort rate exceeds that recommended by Banco de Portugal. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the CFP, BE, PAN and L and with abstentions from PS, PSD, CH and IL.]] This diploma goes down to 5. the Commission. [[CH protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting and, according to the Rules of Procedure, no intervention can be made during the vote. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 258 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends that the Government consider adopting the recommendations of the Banco de Portugal concerning the LTV ratio, the DSTI ratio and maturity. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the IL were rejected in favour of BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions to the PSD, CH and the CFP.]] The vote on draft resolution No 259 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends that the Government protect the right to housing. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the PCP, BE, PAN and L and abstentions against CH and PS deputy Isabel Alves Moreira.]] We continue with the vote on draft resolution No 260 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — proposes the fixing of a maximum spread by CGD for housing credit. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE, NAP and L and the abstention from the CH.]] We voted for Resolution Project No. 261 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends urgent measures to respond to increases in housing credit. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE, NAP and L and the abstention from the CH.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded the votes. I give the floor to Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha, to make an announcement to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u276	Mr. President and Mr. Members, you have entered the Bureau, and you have been admitted, draft resolution No 264 / XV / 1. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to Ireland.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-06.u277	We thus conclude the agenda for this plenary session. I just need 47 seconds, sirs. Members, to set out the agenda for the next plenary meeting, to be held tomorrow at 10 a.m., which is set out at the first point in the appraisal of Bill No 243 / XV / 1. a ( IL), together with Resolution Projects Nos 188 / XV / 1. ( IL), 189 / XV / 1. a ( IL) and 224 / XV / 1. a (IL) and Bills Nos 289 / XV / 1. a ( PAN), 292 / XV / 1. a ( BE), 300 / XV / 1. a ( CH), 302 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) and 303 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ). In the second point, we will proceed to the evaluation Draft Law No 279 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), together with the following initiatives : Resolution Project No 218 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) ; Draft Law No. 281 / XV / 1. a ( IL), 287 / XV / 1. a ( PAN), 294 / XV / 1. a ( L) and 296 / XV / 1. a ( BE) ; and Draft Resolution No 200 / XV / 1. a ( CH). Then, at the third point, we will appreciate Bill No. 263 / XV / 1. a ( CH) and, in the fourth point, draft resolution No 164 / XV / 1. a ( PS ), in conjunction with Bill 61 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), 293 / XV / 1. a ( L), 295 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) and 304 / XV / 1. a ( BE) and Draft Resolution No 228 / XV / 1. a ( CH). of the fifth and sixth points, without time allocated for discussion, are respectively set out in motion for resolution No 4 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) and the Budget of the Assembly of the Republic for 2023. Finally, we shall have the vote on the Rules of Procedure. Good afternoon and until tomorrow. [[It was 18 hours and 16 minutes.]]
