ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning, we are in a position to begin our work. The session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 2 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the galleries to the public. You have the floor, for the reading of the dossier, the Secretary of the Bureau Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very good day to all and to all. First of all, I begin by announcing an opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of the Members of the European Parliament, which is in favour of the replacement of Mrs Isabel Rodrigues ( PS ), elected by the electoral circle of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, by Mr João Azevedo Castro, from 2 May 2022. We need to vote immediately, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on this opinion of 14. the Commission. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the NAP and L was recorded.]] You may continue with the reading of the file, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, several legislative initiatives. First of all, I refer to Law No 7 / XV / 1. a ( ALRAM ), which drops to 1. the Commission, and the Proposal for Law No 8 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), which falls to 6. the Commission. Law Nos 4 / XV / 1 also entered the Bureau. a ( BE ), which drops to 1. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission, 32 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 65, 66 and 67 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which fall to 10. the Commission, 68 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 69 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 14. the Commission, 70 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 71 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 72 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 74 / XV / 1. a ( PS ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 75 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 76 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 77 and 79 / XV / 1. a ( CH), 82 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) and 84 / XV / 1. a ( BE). Parliamentary Inquiry No 1 / XV / 1 has also entered the Bureau. a ( CH). I refer to, to end, that have entered the Resolution Projects Nos 43 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 44 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 45 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 1. the Commission, in connection with 2. the Commission, 46 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 4. the Commission, 47 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 48 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 49 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which falls to 4. the Commission, 50 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 51 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 52 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 53 and 54 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), lowering to 8. the Commission, 55 / XV / 1. a ( PS ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 56 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 57 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 58, 59 and 60 / XV / 1. a ( CH) and 61 / XV / 1. a ( BE). I then realize that the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Braga — Local Cable Judge of Braga — Judge 4, Case No 78 / 22.6T8BRG, decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Gilberto Anjos ( PS ) to give written testimony as a witness within the framework of those cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u5	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, with the absence of the L.]] You may proceed, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u6	I also announce that the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Braga — Local Court of Braga — Judge 3, Case No 5764 / 21.5T8BRG, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Gilberto Anjos ( PS ) to give written testimony as a witness within the framework of the said cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u7	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, with the absence of the L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u8	Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Braga — Central Criminal Court of Braga — Juiz 6, Case No 140 / 12.3TELSB, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize the lifting of parliamentary immunity of Mrs Patrícia Dantas ( PSD ) within the framework of the said cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u9	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The session today is dedicated to the beginning of the speciality of the Law Proposal No 4 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2022. As agreed in the Committee on Budgets and Finance and ratified at the Conference of Leaders, this morning we will proceed to the debate on Articles 2. o 115. the same bill. The Bureau has made a number of requests for intervention by parliamentary groups with regard to Article 2. the, concerning the enhanced value of this bill, and the first is Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo, the Liberal Initiative, to whom I give the floor immediately.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are discussing the speciality of this Budget. It is a Budget that has nothing very special, but that shows the things in which PS is a specialist. He is first and foremost a tax collector, because we have a GDP (gross domestic product) that grows less than 5 % and tax revenues that grow almost 7 %. So we already have the guarantee that the tax burden will hit a new record in 2022. And more: this will not only be so, it will be worse, because in the last budgets, in all the budgets of the Costa Government, more taxes have been charged than those that were budgeted and, with the exception of the years of the pandemic, less expenses have been incurred than those that were budgeted. Therefore, PS specializes in tax collection. [[Protests of PS Members.]] Secondly, PS specializes in advertising,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u11	We're already specialists in two things!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u12	...because you want to convince us that this is not an austere budget, that it is not a containment budget. A budget that will reduce the IRS (tax on income of natural persons) to the middle class and to young people, which will end with the PEC (special payment on account) and with autonomous taxes, which will update pensions, which will have free foster care, which will increase public employees as can be austere? I'll tell you. In all, these measures cost about EUR 700 million and the tax increase you were told recently costs EUR 3 billion. So the PS is master at making shines with the money of others: it spends 700 million of 3 billion — at least! — which has paid or will be charged with extra taxes. But it's not just here that the PS is able to make shines with other people's money. In the budget report itself it is written that in 2021 the deficit fell by 3 % and almost 90 % of this decline came from higher tax charges. In other words, the shine was not from the government, it was from the Portuguese, families and businesses, who paid more taxes. Thirdly, PS specializes in blowing air and not doing anything about the reforms that are necessary and presiding over the period of further degradation of public services that there is recent memory. Money is thrown over the problems, but services to the public continue to deteriorate. Look at health and we have more Portuguese today — more than 1 million Portuguese! — without a family doctor of what we had five years ago. Today we look at the conditions of the National Health Service (NSS ) and there is no professional who does not say that they are worse and those who stay in the National Health Service and do not flee to the private are demotivated and only look for an opportunity to change their lives. In education, delays in learning will not be recovered in 2022, and we are condemning a generation of young people to a permanent under-utilization of their capabilities. And more: it is already seen in the near horizon that about 100 000 students will need at least one teacher. He could speak of the gross delays in social security in order to pass the first reform, the gross delays in resolving problems in the Foreign and Border Service ( SEF ), permanent delays in justice and cases of failure to operate services to the public. So we already knew that the PS doesn't know how to make the country grow. This has been evident over the course of 20 years in which he ruled, of the 25 we have already taken. We already knew that, but we know now, too, that the PS has no idea how to put the services to work. In front of these PS specialties to charge more taxes, to advertise...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u13	What do we do propaganda? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u14	... and if we do not know how to solve the problems of services to the public, we will oppose the specialties of the Liberal Initiative: continue to denounce these specialties, these arts of the Socialist Party, denounce that we do not need this kind of governance and, above all, announce that there are different ways of making politics, that there is a liberal path that works and that, you know, Portugal is needed. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u15	It doesn't work and it doesn't need to!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u16	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Jamila Madeira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u17	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is the first budget of this legislature. This budget represents the commitment we made to the Portuguese and Portuguese, the commitment we made to the elections of 30 January and which also incorporates the commitments we made to our partners last October. The 2022 State Budget is a document that makes the balance difficult, but virtuous, between ambition and prudence. It has ambition, because it seeks to develop social policies that return income to families, promoting an extraordinary increase in pensions up to pensions of 1108 €, relieving the IRS of young people, creating two new intermediate steps of IRS, increasing the minimum existence, increasing the deduction from the second child. It is also a Budget which increases the public function and consumes an important part of the progress in meanwhile frozen careers, representing an average increase of 2, 5 % and an increase in salary mass of 3, 6 %. This is the Budget that introduces the free daycare centers and extends the daycare network. It is a Budget that improves middle class income. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is also the Budget that pursues the policy of strengthening family allowance, which ensures the guarantee for children and complements the guarantee for children. It is the one who is concerned about the continuation of the increase in the national minimum wage for the seventh consecutive year. But it is also the Budget that gives body to measures to mitigate the geopolitical shock, reducing the ISP (tax on oil and energy products), supporting, in production, the intensive gas companies, establishing an agreement that limits the impact of the gas price on the final price of electricity, which supports rations, fertilizers, seeking to reduce the impact on the food chain, and it is the Budget that supports the most vulnerable families with a €60 cabbage and with €10 in the gas tank. It is an ambitious budget also within the framework of companies, with the aim of maintaining convergence with the European Union as it is, in fact, referred to by international entities, giving a tax incentive for the recovery of companies, improving the patent box scheme from 50 % to 85 % of the taxable income in the framework of industrial property. It is an ambitious budget in innovation, in the decarbonisation of industry, in digitisation, with support in the range of EUR 900 million and EUR 1300 million to support companies most affected by the pandemic. But this is also a prudent budget, a budget made in a context of certainty and uncertainty. Surely, however, it is important to stress — that we will not let anyone stay behind. However, times of uncertainty, which have to do with war, with the persistence or not of inflation and its implications on the financial markets, advise us to make the steps safe and sustainable. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The steps must be safe and sustainable because for the PS, for the government, the consolidation of public accounts, the right accounts are a purpose but not an end in itself. The right accounts are the necessary condition for Portugal to continue to face the challenges of the future successfully, whether the pandemic, the war of Ukraine, inflation or the energy crisis. Only with certain accounts do we have other instruments to continue to act.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u18	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u19	This is the budget necessary for this year, and it is true that within five months we will be here discussing the State Budget of 2023, we hope that, in this case, without war and with less uncertainty. As we did well in the discoveries and, now, in the pandemic, we sailed at each step considering uncertainty, but keeping the coast in sight, surrounding the problems at each step, but never stopping to move forward. This is therefore a budget which advances in the central areas of the previous legislation and which continues in terms of the recovery of rights, in terms of income recovery, in social justice, but also in the creation of employment, in areas of decarbonisation and digital acceleration, so pressing for Portugal and the European Union. It is a Budget that reinforces public housing and transport policies as essential pillars of rights and the future. It is a Budget that continues the downward course of public debt. To reduce public debt is to make a commitment to the future, it is to reduce the greatest threat to the future of our economy. Less debt means less taxes and more strengthening social policies in the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In order to pursue this path of answers, the Socialist Party has presented a set of proposals for amendments to this budget, focusing on young people, export credit insurance, combating abusive tax planning, protecting the sectors most exposed to the energy crisis, strengthening the role of authorities and decentralization, which we consider essential to pursue a strategy to have an increasingly cohesive country. The proposed amendments to the State budget submitted by the PS follow a principle: the principle of budgetary responsibility. It was also in this way that we evaluated the proposals for amendment of the opposition, seeking to provide solutions to the problems of the country and adding to this budget also the vision of all democratic parties in this Parliament. That is why we can say that we will now approve proposals from this broad political spectrum and therefore we believe that we will continue to help strengthen the voice of this budget, without ever before, but without ever jeopardizing budgetary stability, nor jeopardising the principle of good public accounts, of the right accounts. For this reason, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will defend, in this special budgetary procedure, a budget that returns income to families, which keeps Portugal growing above the European average, which recovers the confidence of companies to invest and pay better wages and which continues to strengthen public services—and always with certain accounts. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u20	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u21	Mr. President, Dear Members of the Government, dear and dear colleagues: The world is changing and the big question is whether the State budget changes with it. In view of the changes we have seen in our continent and in the world in relation to food supply, in relation to the price of energy and in relation to the architecture of peace and security in Europe in recent weeks, which are structural, we must be prepared with changes, also structural, which help us think about the future. It is this work that the Freeman undertakes to do until the last minute of discussion of this Budget: to know whether the social state does not go back one millimeter, but at the same time to adapt the social state to new needs for flexibility in people's lives, such as the extension of the unemployment allowance to victims of domestic violence or to those who want to accompany the spouse to the inside or to whom he or she wants to train and qualify. If, with the greatest influence of refugees that Portugal has received in recent decades, we have to ensure that human rights training reaches the central administration and the authorities. If, with the changes in the world of work with the pandemic, we now study and discuss the new work models, including the four-day week, which will allow us to work differently in the future, but also here, in this House, to discuss with knowledge of cause. If, with the increase in energy price, we can lower the bill of energy in our homes, giving more comfort and dignity to Portuguese and Portuguese, at the same time, helping to save the planet with Program 3C: home, comfort and climate. If we talk about Program 3C, we can talk about a 3E programme — that is, school, electrical and ecological transport — that allows people to be rested because their children and daughters will go to school safely, avoiding unnecessary car travel. Now, if we talk about tax cuts, as our dear colleague of the Liberal Initiative João Cotrim Figueiredo has said, it is also necessary to say that there are those who talk about tax reductions and those who can propose tax reductions to be worth. In other words, there are those who want to lower taxes for the richest and there are those who propose to lower taxes such as VAT (value added tax) on menstrual products, i.e. a tax on a specific category of people who cannot avoid recurrent and monthly expenses. These are the corrections of the tax injustices that are worth, those that we need and those that, if accompanied, will allow us to look at a budget that is not just a budget of adaptation to what is happening, but of preparation for the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u22	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This budget is presented, is being discussed and will be voted on at a time of serious inflation, inflation which reached 7, 2 % in April, according to the INE ( National Institute of Statistics ). Some people may think that this is given to macroeconomics or academics. Don't! This has to do with each person's day-to-day, every citizen's. Fuels increased by 33 % from April last year to April this year; electricity increased by 18 %; gas, essential for people to feed, increased by 28 %; food oils increased by 44 %; meat rose by 14 %; fish increased by 11 %; and even that most basic food at any table, bread increased by 12 %. This is the reality that the Portuguese are confronted with when they leave home and go to the supermarket. But the government shows complete insensitivity with the suffering of Portuguese and Portuguese. [[Protests of PS Members.]] That is why it increases public servants by less than 1 % — less than 1 %! And if there are some private individuals who can have more social sensitivity than the government and decide to make an extraordinary increase to their employees, the government decides not to update the IRS steps, so that this increase is absorbed by Dr. Medina's safes and remains in the state. [[PSD applause.]] This is unqualifying! [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] This is a terrible injustice, especially when, a few months ago, he said—and Dr. António Costa said! — that I wanted to increase the income of Portuguese. One thing is what I said, another thing is what you are doing, showing complete social insensitivity with the suffering of Portuguese families. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u24	That is why we have tabled a set of proposals aimed at minimizing the social damage this budget incorporates. We propose to increase the salaries of public servants by at least 4 %, because it is the inflation that the government expects, but which may even be higher. If the government now assumes 4 %, why does it only increase public servants by 1 %? We say that IRS steps and other social support should also be updated by 4 %. It is the minimum requirement for this budget to have justice. But we want to go further and, therefore, we want to bring seriousness to the political debate. The government says: "We defend decentralization and therefore we want to transfer competences to municipalities. And the municipalities say: "But what they give us does not reach the skills. Do not keep on seeking. ” We simply propose that an assessment be made every three months and that, at the end of these three months, it be concluded that what the Government is transferring is valid or not valid to fulfil the powers given to it. If the amount was enough, delighted in life, if not, correct yourself! But this was if we had a serious government, but unfortunately the government is only words and few acts.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u25	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u26	When the government increases the credit seal tax by 50 %, saying that it is to lower the credit resource incentive, if it was serious, it should say that this measure would only be applied for future contracts, it would not be retroactive, it would not be for a credit that someone had to make two years ago, who made his accounts and who knows how much he has to pay every month, but who thus sees the taxes aggravated by 50 % again to reinforce Dr. Medina's coffers. [[PSD applause.]] This is unqualifying, I repeat! Finally, we have a set of proposals that aim purely and simply to see if what they were saying was only promises for Portuguese to see or if it is something they really want to do in hospitals or other areas where so many announcements have been made. All right, let the public competitions open up this year, for example, for these hospitals all! Open the contests and then let's see if the execution starts in your time! If these proposals go down as well, it will no longer be in this legislature that we are going to have these promised hospitals and that means that it was only for Portuguese to see, to elect, that this is not your will. [[PSD applause.]] Well, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Social Democratic Party knows that this is a bad budget, that these proposals do not structurally change the Budget, but can improve the lives of families, businesses and all Portuguese. That's what we're doing here. Let's hope there's good sense and not the compressor roll of an absolute majority who just thinks that what is PS is good and that what is not PS does not lend. We work for Portugal and the Portuguese! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u27	For an intervention, Mrs Inês Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present: When, in October 2021, we told the country that we would not miss, that we would be available to dialogue and to give answers to the critical moment we were living in, an unprecedented socio-economic crisis, to which, unexpectedly, the war Europe is going through, we are fulfilling what we promise. That is why we have put forward a set of proposals to ensure that this State Budget is not only a Government Budget, the Socialist Party, but a Budget of the Assembly of the Republic and that it has the contribution of the political forces acting in the democratic spectrum. We want to ensure that this is a budget capable of defending people, not forgetting the animals or, less so, the planet and the climate crisis we are going through. What if it's the budget we wanted? No, it is not, but it is a budget that fights for the difference between opening up dialogue and welcoming a very broad spectrum of measures, which the NAP has presented, ranging from strengthening money for public transport—to combat not only the social crisis, but above all the climate crisis—support to ensure more comfort and warmth for people who are cold in their homes or support for victims of domestic violence. We want to ensure that, indeed, no one stays behind and that we again have a review of the steps of the IRS, which, by the hand of dialogue and negotiation, is possible for the first time in this State budget. Moreover, this is also a budget that does not leave behind animals, which guarantees the enlargement of the Animal Protection Programme throughout the country, so that we do not have just laws, but that they are met, applied and monitored. This is also a budget which aims to ensure more money for municipal chambers, because decentralising is also a guarantee of money so that they can exercise these powers. This is also a Budget which, in terms of the protection of biodiversity—we pointed out yesterday on International Biodiversity Day— ensures that we have programmes to support and preserve nature and that we combine agricultural practices with the protection of ecosystems and habitats, something that has been successively forgotten over the years. This is also a Budget that gives the body the need to protect nature. When we have an unprecedented climate crisis, when we are seven years from the point of non-return, this Budget, by the hand of the NAP, will bring several measures that aim to ensure programmes such as the Free Rivers, the removal of obstacles, the monitoring of pollution, which is absolutely essential if we want to continue to have a more healthy, environmentally sound Portugal. The NAP presented and gave body to all these proposals. It will now be up to the PS, with its absolute majority, to show, in fact, what kind of democracy we will have in the next four years, to begin by this fire proof which is the State budget. It is up to the PS to show whether we are actually going to have a dialogue majority, capable of welcoming this body of measures presented, or whether we are going to have a back assembly aimed at the other political forces. We believe that we will make the difference this year and that we will continue to make the difference in this path that we have ahead, even though it is not for the Portuguese, the country, the planet and also for the animals, our companions of journey.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u29	What about people? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u30	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members: If by the end of last year the solutions put forward by the CFP were necessary to respond to the problems affecting workers, the people and the country, today, six months later, with the worsening of living conditions, these solutions become even more urgent. In the more than 300 proposals we have put forward, we have prioritized the value of income, wages and pensions, valuing purchasing power; the control and fixing of energy prices, fuel and essential goods, combating the use of economic groups and speculative prices; access to housing, ensuring stability, increasing public housing, but also protecting family housing; strengthening the National Health Service, public school, social protection; and creating the public network of day care. We did not stop intervening in areas such as justice, internal administration, security forces and services, civil protection, defence, science. We also proposed investment in culture, support for youth, sport, associative movement, and we advanced solutions for fair fiscal policy and increased government revenues by releasing it from PPPs (public-private partnerships) and from excessive energy revenues. We have proposed support for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, small farmers and small fishermen, national production and productive sectors. The PS and the Government will be confronted with our concrete proposals and the question is this: what is the choice of the PS and the Government? Do you want a State budget that does not respond to what is necessary and does not face the interests of the economic groups, or a State budget that actually goes to the cause and responds to problems in our country? If what is intended is to give real response to the country's problems, then the path is the one that the CFP presented and the approval of the CFP proposals. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u32	Mr Andre Ventura, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the beginning of the discussion of this Specialty Budget is marked by an absence: the absence of Fernando Medina, below, on the government bench. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The Minister of Finance believes so little in this budget that he did not even set foot in Parliament on the day when the State Budget began to be discussed in the specialty!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u34	All right! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u35	But it is not surprising that Fernando Medina is not here today, because, in fact, he knows that this Budget, apart from being his Budget, is a Budget that was all less prepared for the context in which we find ourselves. It is the same as delivering an election propaganda document to a country facing war, inflation and the brutal increase in the cost of living. All or almost all segments of Portuguese society will lose income next year. This is the truth that we must announce to the country at the beginning of the discussion of the Budget, in the specialty. The increase in the price of essential goods is brutal and meaningful for all Portuguese. House prices have risen three times as much as income in the last decade, but above all those who have to pay for gas, electricity and fuel feel well what was promised by a government that was going to be green, ecological and ended up being the most exploiting government in recent years. [[Congrats from the CH.]] But this is not only the Budget which should have fought inflation and not fought, it is also the Budget of little or almost no fiscal courage. The Portuguese pay taxes today, per cent, what very few European partners pay. Families in Portugal arrive at the end of the month and feel a state burden far higher than any other economy in the European Union. A curious example: while in Portugal we will pay the reduced rate of VAT by a vegan cheese or by installing solar panels, we continue not to pay the same rate for natural gas and electricity!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u36	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u37	You see the country on the contrary, where a vegan cheese has a reduced VAT rate, but electricity and natural gas are paid at an intermediate rate! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Look at this country on the contrary! Yes, and that's why Fernando Medina isn't here today, because this country is so opposite that he doesn't even have the courage to come here to face it. In fact, a curious fact: do you recall that the government had said it would be very expensive to return pensioners — and Portugal has the poorest pensioners in Europe — the money of the cuts we had made them? At the time, EUR 200 million was mentioned, which would cost the return of the pensioner's pensioner's income from the courts. Yesterday, in Ukraine, António Costa announced EUR 250 million for the reconstruction of Ukraine. We have nothing against it, but there can be no money for Ukraine and no money for pensioners in Portugal. That can't happen in our country! [[Congrats from the CH.]] This is the Budget that continues the suffocation and impoverishment of Portugal. Police, nurses, entrepreneurs, health professionals generally know what it is to arrive at the end of the month and have tax suffocation rates that almost do not allow them to have any other life. Another curious fact in a country on the contrary: the government announces, with pump and circumstance, that there will be money next year for police and security forces to have LGBTI formation (Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgener and intersex) in all teams. And this training, thus announced, comes out of the same budget that does not give them a risk supplement, that does not give them a supplement of professional constitution and that leaves teams to be destroyed in Portugal! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u38	Oh! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u39	In other words, that country is so the opposite, so the opposite, in which it says: « Don’t you have the conditions to work? Your problem! » ; « Do you have a risk supplement? Your problem! » ; « Where are you driving without gas oil? Your problem! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” But LGBTI formation, we really have to, because that is what is needed in the country in which we are living! It is this country that the Socialist Party wants to continue ruling. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are facing the biggest public debt crisis in our history. Portugal today has 13. the world's largest public debt. Repeat : 13. the biggest public debt in the world! This government, which is on the bench below me, does not have a single structural measure to combat public debt. Fernando Medina said that this would be the big challenge of this legislature, but what is the extent to which we have this Budget to combat public debt? We have more expenditure, little expenditure where it was interested in spending and a total lack of control over political spending and those who continue to feed the state machine. The PS equation is simple: more political charges, more public spending, more administration, more government spending and less money for families and businesses. That is the truth of the Socialist Budget! [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS Members' laughs.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in this initial intervention of the debate on the speciality of the Budget we should not smile or laugh, but be very concerned about what the President of the Portuguese Business Association said, and that I will quote that the Socialist Party will hear well what has been said: "Our country has advantages and imbalances, but there is a real risk: Portugal can become this year no 3. the poorest country of the European Union. Do not keep on seeking. ” I wouldn't laugh, ladies. Members of the Socialist Party, I would not laugh in such a poor country where there is almost no money to pay pensions and where wages are the shame that they are. This was not said by anyone in Parliament, it was said by a Portuguese business association! With the data available at the time we're talking here, we can be the 3. the poorest country of the European Union. What a shame we should feel to be here in a chamber at the risk of making our country poorer!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u40	It is the country that grows the most in 2022!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u41	We all remember, Mr. President... [[PS protests.]] ...—I know you're nervous, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is what it is and what it is to be said! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u42	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to create the conditions for the speaker to be listened. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u43	Mr. President, the Socialist Party is nervous about hearing the truth, but that's exactly what it has to be. Finally, with the warning that it should be a red alert: at all times in our history that debt has reached this point, a brutal financial crisis and a request for external aid has taken place. The trust of institutions in our economy is at least historical and this is also the responsibility of this government. He wants history and wants God that we do not have to face, at the hands of the Socialist Party, a public debt crisis that leads us back to kneeling before Europe, because it is enough of socialist bankruptcy behind socialist bankruptcy. Unfortunately, however, this Budget seems to want to go the same way. [[On your feet, applause from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u44	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are two ways to respond to inflation, the first is to control excessive prices and profits while protecting income, the second is not to touch either prices or excessive profits while income is degraded. This budget makes a very clear choice: it does not control prices, it does not affect the profits of energy companies — today even António Guterres warned about the excessive profits of energy, only the government does not see! —, does not update wages, does not update pensions, does not update benefits, does not update the national minimum wage to inflation. The government has more revenue, sees the deficit below, but imposes a policy of impoverishment on the country. Wages and pensions will fall, poverty will increase, the weight of wages in GDP will be lower, i.e., the government will fail all the promises it has made. All the promises you made a month ago, two months ago, the government will fail them, because it will impose a policy of impoverishment on the country. And why? In whose name and who? Minister Fernando Medina said three weeks ago, here in Parliament, that a policy of prudence was needed, because we cannot live beyond our possibilities. A precautionary policy was needed, because Minister Fernando Medina had been at a meeting in Brussels where he had been told that the budgetary rules would again be in force. Well, we don't know if Mr Fernando Medina is misinformed or if he only hears what he wants to hear, because three weeks later we know that the Brussels rules will be suspended not only in 2022 as in 2023. There is no excuse, there is no inevitability: the government's choice is by a budget that impoverishes the country and that is a choice that belongs only to the government. We reject this choice and make another one. We want a Budget: to update wages, pensions and benefits; to protect the National Health Service and the public school; to have measures of decency to end the regime of non-standard residents, to end unjustified tax benefits, to end the visasgold, to tax the excessive profits of energy and also to tax cryptomoeds, without excuses or inevitability, because the country is not doomed to impoverishment. I just wanted to leave a final note, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Rui Tavares spoke recently of a proposal from the Free to reduce the VAT on menstrual products to 6 %. I understand the distraction, I understand that these are not the products that Mr Rui Tavares most acquires in the supermarket, but the VAT rate of menstrual products is already 6 % several years ago,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u46	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u47	...so we do not fully understand the proposal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u48	For an intervention on behalf of the Government, Mr Deputy Minister and Parliament have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now entering the final phase of this budget and I would like to leave three notes that seem important to me. Firstly, an absolute majority cannot and will never be understood by this government as an absolute power. That is why, during this month of work, we have had the opportunity to dialogue with various parliamentary groups, to look at the proposals that are on the table and to agree with them, to improve this financial instrument. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you that this financial instrument has three absolutely well-defined priorities. First of all, after hearing Mr. Members, it is that this budget cannot compromise the future. In order to respond to the demands of the moment, we cannot compromise the future, which means having accurate accounts and continuing to answer people's problems. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, perhaps they have not seen the 'foam of the days' which is going to occupy us, but Portugal was in Europe the country that grew most in the first quarter of this year. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u50	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u51	Portugal is today a country with one of the lowest unemployment rates, because this has been our bet. Mr Duarte Pacheco, Portugal, is today a country that does not cut income or increase taxes, but increases Portuguese income, whether in pensions or in wages. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a budget with the well-defined and equal priorities, in all it would have to be, to the commitment we have made to the Portuguese. hence the strengthening of EUR 700 million for the National Health Service, to continue to respond. hence the wager in learning recovery, with EUR 900 million, so that our children are not victims of the inequalities that the pandemic itself has produced and for people to be able to recover in their learning. That is why this budget invests in the increase in pensions: it is EUR 197 million for pensions for those who need it most. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand the heat of the discussion, but let us go to very concrete things: this budget, which continues to fulfil the commitments made with the Portuguese, to strengthen the social state and people's incomes and to increase public investment, does not forget the situation we are living in. That is why it was necessary to take measures that respond quickly to people's needs. It is not worth ridiculing measures such as food cabaz, because the beneficiaries of the food cabaz know that it is necessary in their lives and it was the government who gave them this. [[P.S.'s applause.]] When we go to the gas pump, we know that fuels have increased by the environment, but we also know that we pay less than 27 cents previously, and this is not today or this budget. Since October the Government has taken steps to meet the needs we face in the country. There are miraculous solutions for everything and then there is realism, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. Realism is to tell the honourable Members. Members that a financial instrument such as the State Budget is absolutely decisive in making political choices and the political choice of this government is to bet on the income of families, our economy and the improvement of public services. The choice of this government is, indeed, to bet on a more modern and more equal Portugal for all Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u52	Having concluded the interventions on Article 2. The proposal of the law...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u53	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u54	Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u55	Mr President, it is to make an intervention on Article 2. o
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u56	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u57	Mr President, the Minister may say everything she understands, but the reality is not what she has described. [[PS protests.]] Do you know why, Minister? Oh, my God! I give you three examples: firstly, the support to the companies that are expressed in this Budget are the same as the budget proposal presented to the Assembly of the Republic last October. So nothing has changed. [[PSD applause.]] Secondly, as regards the rest of the support, yes, ma'am, they appeared,... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u58	... but not for companies, which have a financial volume lower than the increase in VAT from inflation. The government earns inflation and collects more money than the one it distributes thanks to inflation! [[PSD applause.]] Thirdly, he said there is no increase in taxes. I know that your policy, over the past seven years, has been very simple: indirect taxes, for you, are not taxed. But, you know, indirect taxes are paid by meat and bone people, by all of us,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u59	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u60	... and are aggravated in this State budget. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u61	The Bureau shall record two entries for requests for intervention, one from the PS Parliamentary Group and one from the Government. I have the floor by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Miguel Cabrita, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say one or two things which I think are important at this time. First, let us talk about taxes, particularly indirect taxes. I do not know whether the honourable Member and the banks present here know that since 2015 the tax burden, as a percentage of GDP in Portugal, has declined slightly. What has increased was contributions to social security because there are more jobs and more wages in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by IL Member João Cotrim Figueiredo.]] The data are clear and since 2015 this is the trajectory we have followed. So we have to tell the truth, with objective data. When it says that the measures that are in the State budget under discussion are the same as there was in October, it is true, because this Budget fully complies with all the commitments made with the Portuguese. On the other hand, I would like to ask what the opposition would say if, today, the government were to discuss a budget that did not meet the commitments and that, on the contrary, it was different from the one that went to the elections! [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is what it costs many people: this budget fully meets all commitments. It is important to say that there have already been more measures to support companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u63	Say one!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u64	They may not be in the Budget, but yet a week ago they took steps to offset the costs of electricity costs of petrol and there were more measures to reduce the weight of energy costs, to relieve businesses, to alleviate costs in feed and agriculture. I think it is important to say this in plenary and not to allow this State budget to be discussed on the basis of facts that are not real. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u65	For an intervention, Mr Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is really worth it to go to the facts and speak the truth. It is not worth saying that there is no investment in companies in this budget, because there is investment, yes, and, as has just been said, there are measures being taken to adjust the difficulties we are facing. Only in this budget, Mr Duarte Pacheco, in the Capitalisation and Resilience Fund, for companies affected by the pandemic, is EUR 1300 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u67	It was planned!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u68	In the capitalisation of BPF ( Portuguese Development Bank ), to support companies there are EUR 250 million. For innovation, digitisation, qualification and decarbonisation it is EUR 900 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u69	It was planned!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u70	I can continue, Mr President, but what I have to say to you is that the commitment made to the Portuguese, to the entrepreneurs, was to continue to bet on businesses and the economy, because this generates wealth, which generates jobs, which in turn generates income for people. That is why we are working, and that is what is in the State budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u71	There are no further requests for intervention on Article 2. We therefore refer to Chapter II — Basic provisions for the implementation of the budget. On Article 3. o — Conditional use of budgetary appropriations, the Bureau shall record an application by Mrs Helga Correia of the PSD to submit proposal 1208 - C for the addition of Article 3. o -A — Words for the disabled in the Armed Forces. You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD proposal aims to exempt from any captivating or withholding funds for the disabled in the Armed Forces in 2022. The PSD proposal, approved in the State Budget for 2021, so that the funds for the disabled of the Armed Forces for prosthetics, orthotes and wheelchairs would be exceptional from any captivity or retention brought greater dignity and quality of life to these people. in this sense, and taking into account the specificity of these expenditure, should be guaranteed, from the very outset, through the legal mechanisms existing and approved in the State budget for 2021 that they are shown and maintained in 2022, in order to ensure that the said funds remain exempt from any captivity or retention in 2022. We understand that the proposal is of the most fundamental justice, because the State has an obligation to ensure a prompt response to these men and women. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u73	The next request for a word which the Bureau registers is for Article 14. o -A — Payments to suppliers. Mr João Barbosa de Melo, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention. [[Pause.]] Not confirming that record...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u74	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u75	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u76	Mr President, it is to clarify that there really is a request for a word, but it is not on the subject of "payments to suppliers". Maybe there's a problem identifying the article...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u77	All right, sir, there's no problem. When you understand, please ask for the word, always indicating what is the article you refer to.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u78	Mr President, with all due respect, Article 14. o -A concerns not payments to suppliers, but rather the monetary values of the remuneration levels of the single remuneration table. That is, it is an amendment to Decree-Law No 109 -A / 2021 and that is what induced us to err. But really, about this article 14. o -A, there is a request to register Mr. João Barbosa Melo. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u79	All right. As in Article 14. o -A precedes 15. the, Mr. João Barbosa de Melo has the floor to speak on the updating of the salaries of the Public Administration. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members today, on May 23, 2022, it is not possible to realise that Portuguese families do not feel what is happening with prices in Portugal. by this time of year, everyone has already noticed, in their pocket, that they spend much more and that the money does not reach the end of the month. The Portuguese families are having difficulties and the situation can still worsen if interest starts to rise, as it seems to be becoming more and more inevitable. The situation should have led to a radical change in the Budget and the paradigm on which it is built, but, no, the Budget that comes here is a sort of Budget reaped from the previous version. The nominal increase in civil servants' salaries, for example, continues to be 0, 9 % in this proposal, when the government itself already accepts 4 % inflation and everything indicates that this forecast fails by default. What does that mean? It means that a public official who, in 2021, won 1000 €, with the government proposal, is winning 1009 €, but in order to maintain his purchasing power would need to earn 1040 €. If this gets worse and inflation reaches 7 %, as there are already numbers on the table indicating it, this worker would need to earn 1070 €. But, no, it's only going to win 1009 €. Therefore, in the course of the year, this is equivalent to cutting almost entirely the Christmas allowance to public servants. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u81	Calling the oxen by names, it is of strong austereness that we are talking about, however fantastic it is the narrative that the PS and the government are trying to grasp. In the election campaign this was already difficult, but the government was promising that it would raise the salaries of everyone, of civil servants, but the problem is this: we normally discuss Budgets for the following year, but this year we are discussing a Budget for a year in progress. So we are not basing ourselves on inflation forecasts that must come, but on inflation that we are already feeling. It is therefore absolutely unjust that the salaries of public servants should not be updated at least at the rate of inflation predicted by the government itself. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u82	Still with regard to Article 14. o -A, to present Amendment No 1047 - C, has the floor of Mrs Inês Sousa Real of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we want to talk about the way in which we have to go to break down the walls of inequality, which persist in our country, and this budget also has to respond to this and to present a set of measures, not only to combat poverty, which, in its large majority, reaches women, but also so that we can promote, at business level, quotas and incentives for women to have access to such positions — something that does not happen, because, as we well know, we have just been successively referred to the family sphere. In the dimension of violence, this Budget is also important—and that is why we have a set of initiatives aimed at this amendment—to extend the projects Espaço Júlia and Casa da Maria to the whole country, which is absolutely essential to give specialized answers. As far as the fight against poverty is concerned, I am talking about menstrual poverty, and I cannot help but say that it is very strange that the PS and the Free will have approved something that has existed since 2011 at least because since then women's hygiene products have been taxed at 6 %. It seems to us that the path that appears is like what the NAP proposes, i.e. free distribution in schools, universities, health units, to whom it most needs, to combat menstrual poverty. We also propose a three-day menstrual leave for women who may suffer from already detected disease or incapacitating pain, because we cannot be constantly demanding women that, in addition to their double tasks, efforts and social asymmetries that persist in this time, they also have to work when they are sick, and there is no greater prevention in women's health. There are those who argue in this Chamber that women do not have the right to rest or health. But, yes, honourable Member, endometriosis is a female disease and a scourge that strikes women in our country. And a woman who is sick, with incapacitating pain, has the right to stay home.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u84	What a low play!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u85	If the wing of the extreme right does not understand, there are those who understand and present answers and solutions, because gender equality cannot be a wall that continues to be insurmountable.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u86	We turn to Article 15. o — Supply of permanent needs of public services and combating precariousness. The Bureau noted Mrs Alexandra Tavares de Moura's appointment for an intervention. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we begin by saying that this Budget defends, values and creates value in the Public Administration. Therefore, in the last six years and after 10 years without updates, we have seen: at the end of wage cuts; at the end of career defrosting; at 100 000 workers covered by the increase in guaranteed minimum monthly remuneration; at least 642 000 public servants with a change in career position; at least the elimination of restrictions on hiring; at the service level, with the hiring of 74 000 human resources, of a total of 350 000. Today, we have an increase of 2, 5 % in wage valuation, the review of the single pay table, the bet on valuing the general career of superior technician and the attraction of talent, valuing career entry, either with the degree of licensee or with the degree of doctor. The PS knows that it cannot neglect the evolution of careers, particularly those of technical assistants and operational assistants, and therefore rejects, as it will always reject, the speech of an ineffective public administration and unable to respond to challenges. It is interesting that the PSD brings these proposals and the question I am asking is this: if they were government, would they implement these proposals? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u88	The answer is « no ». They wouldn't implement them, because they didn't defend them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They wouldn't implement them, because they don't believe in that model. They would not implement them, because your electoral programme does not mention them. They would not implement them, because in the PSD there is still regret that, in a «pressine», they would not have left to pay two or three months' wages to public servants, so that they would definitely learn the lesson. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be serious: for PSD, on the right, there is nothing more important than outsourcing and placing in the hands of companies the services of the Public Administration. That, yes, means that for you, the Public Administration is neither effective nor efficient, but we do not believe in that path. We defend the Public Administration and defend that it must be valued and trained. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u89	The next request for a word from the registered Bureau is by Mr José Moura Soeiro, the Left Block, to intervene and present proposal 1172 - C on the interim increase in the salaries of employees of the Public Administration. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this budget, in order not to be impoverished, would now have to stop being what it is. That is to say, it would have to protect the wages from the loss caused by inflation. After increases of 0, 3 % and 0, 9 %, after the effort during the pandemic, after the requirement made to the public services, after the compliments to the social state, when there are several categories that were absorbed by the minimum wage and when there is so much qualified work that is not recognised at the time of maturity, what the Government and this Budget tell the Public Administration is that 2022 will also be a year of loss of income for it. What justice and motivation is intended to encourage when the wages of those who are essential to democracy, health, education, culture, security and justice are not protected? What the Left Block proposes is that the Public Administration have an intermediate increase that will protect its inflation wages, which the Government itself expects will be, on average, 4 %. We also propose that there be an update of the meal allowance, which was frozen during the troika period and which is at 4, 77 €, going to at least 6 €. We also propose to end the cut that exists for all workers, including those of the Public Administration, in the number of holidays, which still comes from the troika. Finally, we propose a strategy to strengthen the professional capacity of public services, to raise the needs of the body, the service agency, the public administration and businesses in the state business sector, and also to reassess the use of employment-inclusion contracts, internships, research grants, service contracts, the false green receipts that exist in the public administration to meet permanent needs, replacing these precarious forms of employment with stable relations, with public employment with rights. This is what needs to be done: ending precariousness, valuing wages and protecting public administration salaries, also giving a signal to the private sector. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u91	In order to intervene and present proposal 1257 - C on the enhancement of the purchasing power of public administration workers, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there was an increase in inflation, a brutal increase in the cost of living, the loss of more than 12 % of purchasing power in 12 years and the PS government response to public administration workers is « 0, 9 % ». There are EUR 990 million for the outsourcing of services, but for public administration workers the government acquaints with 0, 9 %, and the refusal to update wages in order to restore lost purchasing power is a way to cut wages. The answer that is required is that of the valuation of public administration workers and that wage increases ensure the valuation of purchasing power, including mechanisms that deal with losses accumulated since 2010 and a meal allowance of at least € 7, 5, as proposed by the CFP. It is necessary to value the careers of employees of the Public Administration, to restore long-term careers, to create new careers, to ensure fair progress and to assess their remuneration. In addition to the necessary strengthening of workers, there is an urgent need for a clear fight that ends with the continuing precariousness, integrates all workers with precarious links in their services, links external workers who provide services to the Public Administration and integrates the ITCs (individual labour contracts) into their careers, putting an end to the inequalities that continue to exist. These are, among other things, proposals presented by the CFP to respond to the problems of public administration workers, which will be exacerbated by the lack of response of this government and others. What is the PS response to these workers? Do you follow these proposals or will you choose a path that devalues and separates workers from the Public Administration and degrades the quality of public services? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u93	On the same subject, you have the floor for an intervention by the Secretary of State of the Public Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in response to some of the questions raised about wage increases, would like to recall again that there was an increase in the salary mass of 3, 6 % this year, with only 2, 5 % in remuneration valuations. With this, the Government has added a package of incentives for families and income support, focusing on energy and food. The Government's commitment remains in the recovery of income, but it will have to be based on several balances, in particular the need to ensure the future sustainability of the solutions found and also in a fair and frank negotiation to which we will start next month. At the earliest moment, we will pay attention to the compression that is happening at the base of the table — and hence the single remuneration table must be reviewed — but we have a legislation in front of us, Mr President, and we will move forward with a structured and sustainable perspective. from the point of view of entering the Public Administration, the bet is being on its rejuvenation. We are — and will be — opening internships and competitions to link for indefinite time, we have finally had the conclusion of PREVPAP ( Programme for the Extraordinary Regularization of the Precarious Links in the Public Administration ) and we will start negotiations for the simplification and deburrication of public administration access contests. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u95	We are now talking about what Article 16 could be. o -A. Mr Fatima Ramos, from the PSD, who will present proposals 1036 - C, to add an article 16, has the floor for an intervention. o -A — Operational programme for the interior, and 1033 - C, for the addition of Article 16. o-B — Regional delegations of AICEP in the interior.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at present we already have more than 40% of the population in two metropolitan areas. If nothing is done, we will soon have 90 % of the population in a third of the territory. Young people run from the interior in search of better opportunities. We have young people in this gallery and probably some are from the inside and know what I'm talking about. They like to live inside, but unfortunately, they have to flee in search of better quality of life. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We need to invest more indoors and therefore the PSD launches several proposals. One of them has to do with the new public services, which have to be installed inside. It is not « preferentially », it is « must be installed inside ». In the previous budget, the government promised to change some public services and change public servants into the interior, but it is a fact that nothing has been done. Worse, the Government set up the Agency for Development and Cohesion in Lisbon on 5 October. Nor did he set an example, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! [[PSD laughter.]] More: We argue that there are paths within which are not being valued and if we had delegations from AICEP ( Portugal's Investment and Foreign Trade Agency ) we would help in this work. In addition, we believe that the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan) should not only serve to pass checks to ministries, but rather have a specific program for the interior. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Prime Minister has promised day care for all, he has promised services in the interior, he has promised doctors in the interior. You haven't done it. Mr. Prime Minister said there was a socialist Prime Minister who attacked the Socialist Party and the country. What I'm asking you is not to do the same! Think of the faces of those who suffer at fires, think of young people who have to flee those lands, think of the forest and abandoned lands and, please, contribute to this vicious circle breaking. We, in the PSD, are available to give hands. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u97	The next request for a word is made by Mr Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro, from the Czech Republic, to intervene and present proposal 181 - C for the addition of Article 19. o -A — Meal allowance, and others. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the challenges of the State budget we are discussing are not conjunctural, they have to do with political vices for decades. The current political class represented here is entirely responsible for daily abuse, disrespect and bureaucracy that harms the psychological balance and social dignity of civil servants of the Public Administration. Depressions, frustrations, discouragement between teachers and teachers are shared by police forces and also by nurses and doctors. That is, the source of economic evil is not economic, it is ideological, of lack of political responsibility and we must mitigate these serious mistakes with so many decades. How? Supporting mobility, fundamental for displaced teachers and for those without teachers, who are students of middle and low classes. We need to strengthen support for additional work, which is essential for nurses and doctors, and support for night work, which is essential, for example, for security forces. hence the addition of it to article 19. we defend the allocation of cost aids to teachers of basic and secondary education who are displaced and also defend the increase of food allowance from 4, 77 € to 7, 50 € in Public Administration. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u99	The detail is this: we do it for crystalline reasons. First of all, cost aid in the Public Administration is intended for those who effectively improve the quality of life of the populations, through study, effort, work, dignity, civic responsibility. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u100	We're talking about teachers, cops, nurses, doctors. The detail is that the arrival does not open the hand of combating social parasitism and'subsidised dependence'. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Secondly, the arrival does not open the way for the exemplary management of the public thing. The State can and should improve access to quality public services, support for public servants and their careers and at the same time relieve tax pressure on families and businesses. This is no miracle. I cite an example to awaken consciences for an evil enemy who drags — see! — more than 20 years ago: in 2022, the Ministry of Education will again spread millions of euros in extensive, ungovernable, politicized curricula and school hours. It is not necessary to be an economic genius to realize that it is the political class, and not the economy, which has led the country to failure. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u101	For decades, the morbid obesity of the State, through school curricula, has prevented money from supporting students with special educational needs with dignity, reducing the maximum number of students per class, responding to the fair wage and progression demands in the career of teachers and operational assistants, ensuring schools with quality equipment and, above all, relieving fiscal pressure. In conclusion, spending in the Public Administration exists and it is too obvious. Let us respect those who work there and blame those who have ruled, very badly and without opposition. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u102	We now turn to Article 24. o — Strengthening the fight against corruption, fraud and economic and financial crime. For an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz of the Liberal Initiative has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, three months ago we agreed with the news that the world we knew would no longer be the same, the result of the barbaric Russian invasion of Ukraine. For some of us, this invasion seemed like a mirage, but the truth is it has come to warn many problems that have already existed at the humanitarian level, and human trafficking is one of them. I think it is consensual among all Members in this House that trafficking in human beings is one of the crimes that is most sensitive to the dignity of the human person and his individual freedom. Trafficking in human beings is no longer than the exploitation of a defenceless human being, an abject crime that is indisputably opposed to one of the primary values defended by the Liberal Initiative: the freedom and dignity of the individual. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u104	For this reason, we were concerned when in August 2021 Portugal was mentioned in the 2020 report of the Human Traffic Observatory as a destination country with regard to trafficking in human beings for the purpose of labour exploitation. As early as March 2022, the European Commission warned that Ukrainian citizens were among the most trafficked for the European Union, even before the Russian invasion, and also drew attention to the frequent reports of humanitarian organisations on suspicious vehicles gathering Ukrainian citizens at the border, including women and children. If cases of these were already worthy of our concern and action, now, more than ever, it is urgent that we unite our efforts in behalf of all human beings who find themselves and will find themselves defenseless. It is up to the Government to take the necessary precautions to reduce these occurrences and therefore we have made a proposal to add to Article 24. the, according to which the Government should promote the necessary efforts to strengthen the human and material resources to combat trafficking in human beings. I have now launched the challenge for all the Members here to approve it, because only in this way can all possible human and material efforts be taken to combat this problem, which has a growing incidence in our country. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u105	Mrs Joana Sá Pereira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the Government Budget for the highest area of justice ever, but above all, it seeks to meet the priorities that we have set with the Portuguese. One of these priorities is precisely the fight against corruption, which, for the Socialist Party, is a key factor in strengthening democracy and citizens' confidence. Let us see, in particular, that in this budget proposal we have an increase of EUR 15 million in relation to the State budget of the previous year, only in relation to criminal investigation. But it is also a proposal that includes strengthening human resources to combat corruption and to train judges in the field of prevention and repression of this phenomenon. We know that the effectiveness of this fight is as guaranteed as the best conditions and resources are needed to prevent it. There is, therefore, a path that this Budget is deliberately seeking to continue. The anti-corruption legislative package, a structural measure of the Socialist Party Election Programme, was unanimously approved in this Parliament and is this budget proposal that also implements and operationalizes the National Anti-Corruption Mechanism, which is one of the axes of this same package. Therefore, at this stage of the debate, the conclusion is clear: this budget undoubtedly strengthens the area of justice, investing heavily in the fight against corruption. And it is also clear that we have the option on the table: voting against this budget is against strengthening human resources in the fight against corruption,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u107	Why are you saying that?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u108	... is voting against the operationalization of the National Anti-Corruption Mechanism, is voting against the bet on prevention and education for citizenship. on the right, which failed at the end of the debate of the National Anti-Corruption Strategy 2020 - 2024, we expect no more than the coherence of whom nothing serious has to propose, but of other parties we expect another political stance. [[CH protests.]] From other parties we expect, in fact, another political stance. We cannot say, on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, that we want to fight corruption and then on Tuesdays and Thursdays, we will be against the fight against corruption, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]] One thing is certain: the Portuguese know that they will continue to count on the PS for this debate and they also know—and do not forget! — who politically rejects it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u109	I'm asking all of you. Members who listen civilly to each other, so that speakers can express themselves and be understood by the House. For an intervention, Mr Bruno Nunes of the Czech Republic has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not talk only on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Fridays of corruption, because until Sundays, when some people leave, we continue to talk about corruption. [[Congrats from the CH.]] What happens is that, as Mr Bastonário of the Order of Lawyers said, this is the budget in which 1,000 judicial officials are missing, in which 1000 judges are missing, but there is nothing going on about it. This is the Budget in which there are more articles to fund foundations and observatories than articles to talk about corruption. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u111	So today, Monday, we also talk about corruption. [[Every day!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u112	This is the Budget that allows Joe Berardo to enjoy the face of all Portuguese and that makes them, in recent years, the result of the difficulties they have had at COVID, continue to be painfully grieved for everything and something else, while in relation to Berardo nothing happens. Nothing happens in relation to Berardo, nothing happens in relation to José Socrates. This is the budget that makes all the politicians involved in cases of corruption continue in the bathroom-maria. This is the budget which, as a result of the decisions made by the Prime Minister — who one day says he wants a reform in the Constitution and on another day he does not want — has a problem that comes from behind, with responsibility of the Socialist Party and Minister Van Dunem, because they have not corrected the problem of metadata. Now, ex-Procurator Candida Oliveira comes to warn the thousands of processes that can come back when we actually do not have judicial officials. [[Congrats from the CH.]] This is the budget that you keep saying is great for justice, but security officers and criminal police take more time to prepare a process than the period in which the criminal gets arrested.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u113	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u114	This is the Budget of Shame and Support for Corruption. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u115	To submit the proposals of the Left Block 959 - C1 and 959 - C2, amending Article 24. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor of the bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members are lacking means and resources to combat corruption in this State budget. There are no means and resources for fair justice, in time and time, in this State budget. There is a lack of means and resources for the security that is necessary in our country and for the dignity of the careers of its agents in this State budget. There are no means and resources to protect and help and to respect their public agents in this State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u117	The other six were missing, which you supported!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u118	And all this is missing because the government is giving up before inflation and prefers to keep everything as it is, when keeping everything as it is is to leave behind the fight against corruption, time and time justice, security for all in our country and the protection and relief of a country of the twenty-first century. The Government is giving up, but the Left Block insists, keeping proposals for the enhancement of the careers of all these professionals, ensuring that the Budget does not have to fail unless the PS wants it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u119	We now turn to Article 31. that of the bill, which covers admission to security forces and services. Mr Rui Tavares, who cannot take the floor because he is not present, therefore we refer to Mrs Susana Amador of the Socialist Party. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, for the Socialist Party, internal security is a fundamental axis of the democratic rule of law, a state in which freedom and security are dimensions of human dignity and citizenship. Portugal, as we know, is one of the safest countries in the world and this security is a strategic asset that should mobilise us all. For this reason, in terms of the allocation of the Ministry of Internal Administration, this budget increases 8, 4 % and we have an amount of EUR 152, EUR 8 million for investment, which represents a growth of more than 44 %. With regard to admission to the security forces, there is a concern to rejuvenate them and make them more attractive, so we will continue the multi-annual plan for 2020 - 2023 of admissions to security forces and services. I stress that in 2021 2689 elements entered and in 2022 we planned 2600 vacancies, having already 948 PSP (PSP) agents in training. It is very important to make the career more attractive and, therefore, have recently changed the admission criteria with regard to age — anticipating it from 19 to 18 years old and extending it until 30 years old — and also in the sense of allowing it, even attending the 12 years. the year, if you can apply. in the same way, there is always concern about the formation of new candidates for PSP and GNR ( Guarda Nacional Republicana ) with regard to human rights issues and the rule of law, so training and the prevention plan of discrimination in police will be something inherent in this whole legislation, with more training, more human rights training. To make this career more attractive, more housing and housing options are planned, with EUR 34, EUR 9 million from the PRR for the housing program, responding to the need to ensure accommodation for newly trained police and military elements. Therefore, this is also a proposal for great reinforcement. In addition, there is a concern to maintain the dignity and working conditions with the payment of retroactive payments for unpaid pay supplements during the holiday period of EUR 28, 5 million per year, and the risk subsidy has also been updated, as you know, with an annual impact of EUR 50 million. It is also programmed and admitted an investment in infrastructure in the order of EUR 600 million for the next programming law, an increase of EUR 150 million in relation to the current programming law. Finally, on the part of this parliamentary group — and on the part of the Government, we know that it will also — remains a permanent agenda for dialogue with the security forces and the trade unions, in order to work on the conditions of safety and health at work and working conditions in general, which we believe is essential for opening up in a number of strategic areas, since security in the internal administration is indeed a strategic asset for Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u121	To submit proposal 10 - C, on service supplement and risk in security forces, has the floor to Mrs Alma Rivera of the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, the lack of effective forces and security services is not resolved either by preventing the transition to reserve or pre-invoicing, subjecting it to the number of admissions, nor by the Government to limit itself to extending the age of entry into employment. If there is a lack of staff and candidates, this is due to harsh and demotivating working conditions, it is due to the lack of adequate financial compensation to the characteristics of the profession, in particular as regards risk. Although the CFP proposal on the risk supplement was approved in the 2021 Budget, the concrete value that was defined by the Government was a huge disappointment. It is time to correct this injustice and the PCP proposal is exactly in order to fix this supplement in 350 € for 2022 and 400 € for 2023. This proposal is to establish justice, approximate values to those of other security forces and services and must be linked to the CFP proposal on safety and hygiene at work so that we can value and rejuvenate security forces and have better security, based above all on proximity strategies. Still on civil protection and firefighters, the CFP proposes that measures be included in the Budget which simply allow firefighters to survive and continue their mission, so important to all. It is therefore necessary to cover the actual costs of the services provided, to adopt support measures in the acquisition of gas oil or even something as evident as the total exemption of tolls. Finally, we have to talk about justice, the sense of identification and correspondence with justice. Two fundamental elements must be guaranteed: access to law, which is made through the reduction, and even exemption, of the value of costs, and also the conditions for the realization of justice, which pass through more workers, and value them, in the courts, in the registration and notarial services, in the services of the social reintegration system and the prison system. These are the proposals of the CFP, which are urgent and unacceptable. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u123	To put forward proposal 72 - C on the strengthening of the number of psychologists in the security forces, as well as proposals 74 - C, 76 - C and 85 - C, Mr Pedro Pinto, of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u124	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, after hearing Mrs Susana Amador paint the picture of a country of wonders, I even found it difficult to say what I was going to say. They say we are the safest country in the world, but, in this regard, ask the PSP, when it is received to stone in some neighbourhoods of Lisbon or the district of Setúbal — stone or shooting — or those followers who were celebrating a national title, when one of them was killed. Let's ask! Look at the real country. Let's go to the concrete facts and to the real country. in this State budget, the government once again had the possibility to finally dignify the security forces, but chose not to do so. in this budget, there are three articles in particular about the security forces, being much less than what should be done. The Government has merely stated that it will maintain the multi-annual plan for 2020 - 2023 of admissions to security forces and services, referring to GNR, PSP and SEF, but however it continues not to say whether it will free itself from the extreme left-wing ties and reverse the extinction of the SEF. [[Congrats from the CH.]] We do not know for certain how many professionals have already been hired of the 10,000 that Minister Cabrite's propaganda said he was going to hire. What we know is that there are still teams and posts with only one professional working and a patrol on the street. That's the real country and that's what we know. Therefore, what is contained in the Government's bill is not enough. Everyone knows it's not enough: the police know, the citizens know, the arrival knows, by the way, only the government doesn't know. In addition, the elements of the security forces continue without being able to retire to 55 years of age if they are not 36 years of service. This would not only be a fair measure and a reward for a life at the service of others, but would also facilitate the entry of new tables.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u125	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u126	Article 160. it provides for investment in housing infrastructures for security forces professionals and commits the government to initiate public investment tenders up to the third quarter of 2022. So far, so good. We will look forward to seeing whether this deadline is met and whether GNR and PSP effectively receive each of the 5 million planned. However, this Budget does not say anything about the police currently living in unconditional housing for this purpose. The only thing you tell them is that, if everything goes well, in a few years, they will have decent dwellings — a few years from now! So, what now? Now, right now? Do they not care about the conditions in which they live or how they do it, to stop talking about the teams, some completely degraded and within which it rains? « Within a few years», they say! Open... In this context, he proposed that the State should be able to hire private persons in order to ensure, from now on, housing conditions for security forces professionals who are displaced. In addition, the arrival also proposes that insularity allowance be allocated to elements of the security forces in the autonomous regions. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Professionals in these conditions must be entitled to material compensation for being displaced from their area of residence, at a distance which must cost more, when compared to that of the elements which are in similar situations but are working on the continent. As far as this is concerned, the Government's proposal does not say anything. In addition, it was essential to see in this Budget the increase in the risk supplement of these professionals. The PSP, GNR and all other forces, which work every day to ensure order and peace and to be able to live in security, are forgotten by this government and this budget. When a cop is on the street, everything can happen to him. And unfortunately, there are not few situations in which these professionals are assaulted and, in many cases, even dead. In view of these circumstances, does the government think that €100 per month is a fair value for the risks these people, men and women, run for all of us? This is the proposal that this Government continues to present to the police: €100 per month. What does the government have to give? Nothing! A blank paper, an empty sheet on the risk allowance is what you have to give the Portuguese police. In addition, we know that, in the security forces, there is a shortage of psychologists who can support professionals and help them when necessary. And we know that, unfortunately, this is not a minor problem. Over the past 20 years, 160 Portuguese police officers, PSP and GNR have put an end to life— 160! These are numbers in which Members, instead of standing here, should reflect: 160 suicides in the security forces in 20 years. The suicide rate, according to the years, is at levels corresponding to double or triple the national average. by the visas, this issue is also not a priority for the government. I therefore leave this appeal: if they really respect the security forces, if they really want to dignify them, now that they are not hostage to the extreme left, they approve the proposals of the Arrival, which can effectively change the life and work of the professionals of the security forces. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Shame on us if another cop dies performing his job. Shame on us if another cop gets assaulted and the criminal gets released. Shame on us for every cop who commits suicide or gives up his profession for not having decent working conditions. The Socialist Party has the knife and cheese in its hand. The arrival did as it should, had the initiative, and now the responsibility for approval is yours. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u127	Since he is already present in the Chamber, I would ask Mr Rui Tavares if he would now like to use the floor under this article.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u128	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u129	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u130	Mr. President, Dear and Dear colleagues, Dear and Dear members of the Government, Portugal is welcoming one of the greatest influences of refugees that there is memory on our continent after World War II. We often realize that there is good will, but there may not be all the right information to deal with new human rights realities, which needs central administration and local administration to know well so that they can effectively respond. Hence the proposals of the Book to ensure that human rights issues, including, in the case of refugees, conventions protecting such persons — such as the Geneva Convention of 1951 — are the subject of training with the Public Administration. We hope that these proposals can be followed up so that, contrary to what has happened recently, there is a response that is not only effective but also ensuring that Portugal is in line with the international responsibilities and commitments it has taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u131	Mrs. Members, let us turn to Article 36. the proposal for a law on the application of special labour systems in health, with several proposals that may contain an article 36. o -A. To submit proposal 432 - C of the CFP on measures to combat the shortage of teachers, educators and specialists in public school, Mr Diana Ferreira of the CFP has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members:The brutal shortage of teachers that is evidenced from day to day and for which the CFP has been warning for years, and without prejudice to structural measures, it is necessary to respond with urgent measures that already go through this problem. And that is what the CFP proposes, i.e., that time credit should be strengthened according to the needs, that schedules that have not yet been filled out, with the allocation of an educational component, and that it be guaranteed the allocation of a housing and travel supplement for teachers. We also propose the opening of competitive procedures for extraordinary binding, ensuring that until September 2023 teachers are linked to three or more years of service, regardless of the recruitment group. There is nothing to worry about learning recovery if teachers are not guaranteed within the classrooms. These proposals resolve in the short term the problem of the lack of teachers and make a way to eliminate precariousness in the teaching profession and to enhance it. The next path must be the defense of the public school, which is inseparable from the strengthening of educational professionals in schools, their valorization and also from the socio-laboral appreciation of the teaching profession, which has been attacked so much. Which side is the PS position? on the side of the continuation of the problem or on the side of the construction of the solution, in particular by approving these proposals of the CFP? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u133	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we now have a request for intervention on Article 38. o — Full dedication regime by Mrs Maria Antonio Almeida Santos of the Socialist Party, who has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The option that we approved and which was published in the previous legislation, specifically in the Health Bases Act, was that of a functioning of the SNS that is based on a planned and organized workforce, in order to meet the needs of the population in terms of availability, accessibility and quality, evolving to the creation of mechanisms of full dedication in the exercise of public functions, obviously. to the state it is necessary to promote a human resources policy that values full dedication as a work regime of health professionals of the National Health Service, and can obviously create incentives. I also recall that in the Government Programme the commitment was made to implement the full-time work regime, as envisaged, in the status of the National Health Service, to start in medical workers, with progressive application, on a voluntary basis and with a care commitment, with trade union negotiation of the increase in the normal period of work in force, the increase in pay and the system of incompatibilities. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the legal diploma will obviously be the subject of discussion with the representative structures of medical workers. In short, we defend that full dedication, because it is progressive, voluntary and commitment, involves unions, more hours and more remuneration, finally clarifying the regime of incompatibilities. We do not defend the exclusivity regime because it is automatic, without choice, against the professionals, who would certainly generate a band of these professionals from the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u135	Mrs. Members, also on Article 38. the, has the floor Mr. João Dias, of the PCP, to present proposal 12 - C, on exclusive dedication in the National Health Service. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members: To ensure that the National Health Service has the capacity to ensure the care to which users are entitled, it is necessary to provide it with adequate numbers of health professionals. Without health workers in hospitals and health centres, access to health is compromised: access to consultations, surgeries, examinations and treatments essential to Portuguese health is committed. The difficulties in hiring and fixing health professionals have causes. Without conditions of work, without decent careers, without progression and professional development and without fair remuneration, workers are lost for private and for emigration. For this reason, in this State budget, the CFP presents proposals setting and retaining these professionals, such as the implementation of the optional exclusive dedication scheme, which increases the monthly base remuneration by 50 %, plus the accounting of points for the purpose of changing the pay position, as well as the allocation of incentives for the placement of health professionals in geographical areas with poor health, which also considers the increase of 50 % of the base remuneration and the increase of 25 % of the counting of service time for the purpose of progression, as well as a new support for compensating housing costs. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also necessary to correct the tremendous injustice of not accounting for all points in relation to the one actually worked. We cannot accept that if we delete these points, not considering the time of service worked. The CFP therefore proposes in this State budget that all points be accounted for. Saving the SNS is a priority, starting with health professionals. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u137	To submit proposal 1159 - C, of the Left Block, on autonomy for recruitment in the SNS, has the floor of Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One of the biggest problems of the National Health Service, we all know, is the setting of specialists and one of the solutions that the Minister of Health brought was the autonomy of the institutions to hire. We couldn't agree more! Often the possibility of fixing the specialist ends up losing itself in the months, and until years, when the health institution awaits the authorization of the Ministry of Finance. The problem is that what the Minister announced is not in the State Budget, because what she says about autonomy does not even allow a hospital to hire doctors and, therefore, is more or less zero. Actually, it's not a single case. We also have the problem of full dedication, which, with so much programmatic emptiness, says absolutely nothing, and there are even announcements that are not even mentioned in any rule of the State Budget: incentives for family doctors, counting the time of service of nurses, creating the career of health assistant technicians. Finally, all the Minister's announcements that simply disappeared from the Government's bill, with no reference to them. So the invitation I make to the ladies and gentlemen. Members of all the seats, but above all the Socialist Party, are approving the proposals of the Left Block that put into the law what the Minister of Health has promised, because, as we all know, the ads fill televisions, but do not resolve anything in the SNS. It was good for the PS to take it seriously. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u139	Now has the floor Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Health, Antonio Lacerda Sales.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: First of all, allow me to congratulate in a very special way on this new legislative cycle, all of you and all of you. Members and congratulate you on your election. I also wanted to say that it is always a pleasure to return to this House that I know well and that it holds us responsible for our government activity. In fact, here we have taken a course in the field of health and we have no doubt about the path we have taken over the past six years. Since 2015 the Government has been able to respond to the challenges that arise with structural measures for the National Health Service. And it is not just a sum of measures, it is structural measures of a true health policy, with well-established priorities in the short, medium and long term. This was the case between 2015 and 2019, and only so we can now have a boost of more 3, 2 billion euros in the current Budget. This was the case between 2019 and 2021, where we were able to respond, with an enormous capacity of adaptation, to the greatest challenge of our lives, to the COVID-19 pandemic. So today, we have more than 32 000 professionals than we had in 2015, and, Mrs and Mrs. Members, it will continue to be from 2022 to 2026, with a strong commitment to an infrastructure investment in improving the response to Portuguese health needs by approaching and modernizing these health care. This is therefore a future budget that defines priority areas, such as disease prevention and health promotion, improved access to all citizens, proximity health through primary health care, strengthening the hospital network, the National Network of Integrated Continued Care, mental health responses and human resources. Yes, human resources, and therefore, for the full dedication scheme, in 2022, the Government regulates Base 29 ( 3 ) by approving an annex to Law 95 / 2019, by implementing a full dedication work scheme in establishments, within the framework of the new status of the National Health Service, in line with the inclusion in our Government's Programme of the commitment to implement the full dedication work scheme, as envisaged, and the progressive application, to start by medical workers on a voluntary basis and of assistance commitment, with trade union negotiation of the normal increase in the working period and the increase in remuneration and the system of incompatibility. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is a regime that obviously needs a density in its preparation, which is of progressive application, according to objectives and criteria of performance and merit, optional and subject to trade union negotiation. Regarding human resources, compared to December 2015, I refer to the 32 000 health professionals and I also mention the number of physicians, which are more than 6897 compared to 2015, or the number of nurses, which are more than 11 785, or the number of superior diagnostic technicians, who are more than 2171,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u141	Where to? There's no one in the Algarve!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u142	... and I remember that the other professional groups have 10 000 more professionals. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u143	It's just propaganda! The campaign is over!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u144	Regarding family doctors, I continue to say that the Ministry of Health, Mrs. Members, has accelerated and will also accelerate the creation of family health units,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u145	The campaign is over!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u146	... continuing to strengthen the number of professionals and obviously improving working conditions, revaluing careers and career projects with schemes of incentives to fix through full dedication, as we have just spoken. So I want to tell you, too, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who have a net balance of 734 general and family medicine doctors when compared to 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u147	There's no one in the Algarve!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u148	On 30 April 2022, the coverage of registries was 87, 4 %, Mrs and Mrs. Members, and there has been an increase in the number of registries since 2015 of around 500 000. We are actually working to cover as many citizens as possible. It has been a problem since 2009. Since 2009 governments have been promising this possibility of universal coverage. It is something we all want and it is something that all this Parliament and all this House must certainly be committed to. I also recall that in relation to the competition of the second season of 2021, 235 vacancies were made available for doctors of general and family medicine, having chosen 160, and now we will also open a new competition of the second season, as is knowledge, for doctors of general and family medicine. Conclusion, ladies and gentlemen. Members, considering what is the medical demographic development up to 2025, considering the increase in the number of registered members of the National Register of Users (GNU) — over 500 000, since 2015 — and considering the current number of users enrolled in the National Service of Health without a family doctor, it is necessary to resort to measures to enable them to act on the various dimensions of the problem: the collection of general and family medical physicians by, for example, occupying jobs in ACES (health centres groupings) with less than national average coverage; the motivation of general and family medical doctors, which was or is guaranteed through the transition to models B of all applications that deserve a favourable technical opinion; the profitability of general and family medicine, implementing the full commitment regime and negotiating with the syndicated structures of performance incentives; the implementation of the National Registry of Users, ensuring that, by the end of the first half of 2022, the dispatch that has defined the UN is fully implemented and the lists of general safe and familiar medicinal use. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u149	Let us now take a look at Article 46. the proposal for a law on the recruitment of workers in municipalities in a situation of sanitation or rupture, since Mr Pedro Cegonho of the Socialist Party wishes to speak on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the Socialist Party, the autonomy of local power, which is found in our Constitution, is something that guides our political action. It is not only a constitutional command, but also the fact that the Portuguese State is bound by the European Charter of Local Self-Government. This autonomy means that local authorities must have their own democratically elected bodies, must have their own assets and finances, must have their own staff framework, must have their own regulatory powers and must be able to exercise their powers and powers in a manner appropriate to the satisfaction of the interests of the respective populations. For this reason, it is never too much to comply with the Local Finance Act and that is what this State Budget does when it assigns local authorities an increase of 7, 3 % compared to 2020, and in the case of the Freguess an increase of 16, 6 % compared to the previous year. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Local self-government is something very important for us and, therefore, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has made two proposals that enrich this State budget. First, relating to Article 46. the, where it is expected that, within its objective scope, the recruitment capacity of workers in municipalities in sanitation and financial recovery, not only for the situations arising from PREVPAP, but also for all situations resulting from the ongoing decentralization process, and a second, in the proposal 1000 - C, of the PS, of amendment to Article 78. the, where the form of verification of the conditions of exclusion of the application of the Law of Commitments and Payments in Delay to the municipalities is densified, being the municipalities themselves to verify the conditions of this exclusion and to apply it. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The autonomy of local power is a foundation of our constitutional construction. The autonomy of local power is not absolute discretion, hence the principle of legality is always present, but it is important that it is a guiding principle of our political action, particularly when we approve and discuss the State budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u151	We are now addressing Article 47. the draft law, which deals with strengthening training for the fight against domestic violence and dating, and the Bureau registered the registration of two Members to intervene. You have the floor for the first intervention, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz, of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The crime of domestic violence and crimes against sexual freedom and self-determination must be the subject of a cross-cutting and urgent fight aimed at both general prevention and special prevention. The domestic violence crime registers thousands of victims in Portugal every year. According to international recommendations, and in the face of a complex phenomenon, the fight against domestic violence is a global, dynamic and comprehensive intervention. Thus, for us, it is public and evident the need to provide continuous and specific training to judges who process and judge these processes. As regards Article 47. that of the bill of State Budget, we are of the opinion that we can and should go further. In addition to the training of judges, we add the possibility of a semi-annual evaluation of the policies implemented, with the necessary recommendations. We understand that the analysis of the training given is essential to the constant evaluation of effective efforts to combat domestic violence, thus enabling this training to be adapted to better resolve this problem. In addition, in relation to crimes against sexual freedom and self-determination, there has been a high percentage of convicted persons with suspended sentences. The social devaluation of this crime, associated with the guilt of the victim himself or the partial deresponsibility of the aggressor, unfortunately, still remains very frequent. A multidisciplinary training of judges, in areas such as victimology, psychology, sociology and sexual violence, will contribute to a more informed decision of the nature and measure of punishment, with a greater application of knowledge in these different areas. It therefore seems to us once again that it is up to the Government to increase and adopt these measures, so this Parliament must not fail to approve these amendments. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u153	For the second speech on this article, Mrs Emília Cerqueira of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : Also in relation to this article and in accordance with the annual report of the APAV ( Portuguese Victim Support Association ), the report of domestic violence crimes against elderly persons increased by 12 % from 2020 to 2021. In view of these numbers, which are highly worrying, especially if we take into account the spectrum of the national population, which is becoming increasingly old, we need to have specific forms of combat against this nightmare. In addition, this is a particularly vulnerable population range. It happens that the State budget proposal has forgotten the elderly. Thus, the PSD could not allow this serious gap, which is why it presented the proposal for amendment in the context of the Annual Joint Training Plan on combating domestic violence, to give special emphasis to violence in dating and violence against older people. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u155	We are now examining a possible Article 49. o -A, given the proposal 1230 - C of the PSD, for the establishment of a permanent framework of squares in the Army and the Air Force. To submit the proposal, Mr. Carlos Eduardo Reis has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Parliament has the opportunity to correct in this House the serious failure in this State budget with regard to the Armed Forces. No one understands that in a time of pandemic, in a time of hybrid threats, in a time of return from conventional war to Europe, a defence budget may be presented that does not increase investment. in this proposal for Amendment No 1230 - C, adding an article 49. o -A, in particular, the PS also has an opportunity: the opportunity to enforce Mr. Prime Minister's word and also to enforce the promise of the Minister of National Defence when, two weeks ago, here in Parliament, he promised the creation of a permanent framework of squares. A permanent picture of squares that, curiously, was included in the Action Plan for the Professionalization of the Military Career, which ran from 2019 to 2021, and which should already be implemented, but which unfortunately never came out of paper. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u157	We can still give another sign, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the signal that we have heard what Mr. President of the Republic said at the Solemn Session on 25 April, the sign that we realize its importance and that we will act accordingly. As this House knows, we submitted this proposal a year and a half ago. We were accompanied by some parties, but we were not accompanied by the Socialist Party. So the military know they can count on the PSD. They will, of course, count on other Members, but they deserve the parliamentary majority that supports the government, and they deserve the parliamentary majority because this is a step that gives more attractiveness to career, which facilitates recruitment, which helps with retention, but above all, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a measure that has to do with people, it's a bet on our military. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u158	For ruling on Article 55. the proposal for a law on contracts for the acquisition of services in public enterprises has the floor Mr Jorge Mendes of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Article 55. the proposal for a State Budget is entitled « Orders with contracts for the acquisition of services in public undertakings », but when we go to paragraph 2 of this article this is not the subject. The subject is the allocation of special performance premiums to public managers. The PSD does not understand why this proposal of the State Budget does not refer to compliance with the Law of Commitments and Payments in Delay, i.e. a complete omission in relation to that law, which is an obligation of the public authorities, and in this way it is miscuating itself, not requiring it to be complied with. Therefore, the PSD presented a very clear proposal that requires two criteria to be met in the award of performance awards to public managers in 2022. The first is that there is no worsening of late payments from 2021 to 2022. It's the least! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u160	The second is that the business plan must be approved until the first half of 2022. Only in this way can you accept that performance prizes are awarded in 2022. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u161	We are now following for the discussion of Article 60. the proposal for a law on the extraordinary updating of pensions. A number of Members have been registered with the Bureau. Ladies and gentlemen, the first intervention is for Mr Hugo Oliveira of the Socialist Party. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u162	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The Socialist Party has always looked at the increase in pensions in a responsible way. Since 2016 we have been increasing pensions, especially the lowest, sustainably: where there were previously freezings there has been increases. It was also this responsibility that made the Socialist Party refuse to cut 600 million euros in paid pensions, then defended by the PSD and the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u163	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u164	in this budget, we will continue with this same responsibility, as regards the extraordinary increase in pensions, which will have retroactivity on 1 January. In fact, the Socialist Party would like this increase to be paid.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u165	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u166	It was not the Socialist Party that led the Budget, it was not the Socialist Party that pushed the country for elections. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This increase will be done, as we have been doing, complying with the law, using the regular update of pensions provided for in the law. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, with us, pensioners know that they will not have cuts in pensions, but they also know that we do not give in to auctions of proposals, nor to the demagogic and propaganda proposals made at the last hour. What we promise pensioners, what we promise the Portuguese was a sustained increase in pensions and sustainable over time. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] Mr President, you should not even talk about increases in pensions because what the Socialist Party is doing is presenting proposals that are consistent with the electoral programme it presented to the elections. What he presented here was the privatization of social security! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]] That is what you presented and should not, at all, present a proposal in this regard. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u167	I now give the floor to Mr Jorge Galveias of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is more a typically socialist budget,... [[Good!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u169	...then, a bad budget. [[Congrats from the CH.]] As always, he promises to give a lot, but really, what he does is to charge taxes and taxes to those who work. It distributes millions by the same as ever — the customers of the system, the direct adjustments, the New Bank, the TAP — and then give crumbs to the most vulnerable: the elderly and the reformed. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u170	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u171	In Portugal 70 % of pensioners receive reforms below the national minimum order. It is time to restore dignity to all Portuguese and, in particular, to pensioners.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u172	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u173	To improve their living conditions, in order to rapidly bring the lowest pensions closer to the national minimum wage, it must be a plan of all, irrespective of the party to which they belong.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u174	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u175	Article 60. that of the proposed budget law is, for me and many Portuguese, the article of the lack of shame not only of the government that has prepared it and presented it in the House of Democracy, but also of those who have made it possible. I recall that this budget was approved with the votes of the Members. Members of the Socialist Party and the abstention of the only Members of the Free and of the PAN, who are alone no longer than two extensions of the Socialist Bank. This Article 60. the, as well as the proposed amendments submitted by the Free and the NAP and the silence of the other political forces in this House, shows very clearly what systemic socialism in Portugal is. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Article 60. the and the proposed amendments submitted by the Free and the NAP mean that, with the exception of the Arrival, for all parties present here, pensioners with reforms of 278, 5 € only deserve an increase of 0, 33 € per day.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u176	How is that possible? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u177	It also means that for these political forces, 1 million and 200,000 people do not count and can continue to stay behind. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to restore dignity to all pensioners and improve their living conditions, bringing all the lowest pensions closer to the national minimum wage. Our proposal is quite clear, responsible and fair: to end this legislation with poor pensions and to end this legislation with the minimum pension equal to the minimum wage. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u178	To that end, I leave the challenge of approving our amendment proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u179	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u180	According to the Expresso newspaper, Mr. Members of the PS and PSD have the indication of their parliamentary leaders not to question the Arrival — a party representing some 400 000 Portuguese. But they don't need it either! I answer the question that they would raise, if they had a democratic behaviour: the cost of recognition for the work life of pensioners is little more than 1% of the State budget. I repeat : 1% of the State budget! [[PS laughter.]] Combating poverty is one of the most fundamental purposes of any democratic state or government. Combating poverty, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, stay in your conscience! A worthy end of life is not killing our elderly with poor pensions! As presented by the Government, Article 60. it is even a way to impose austerity, because whenever an elderly person goes to the mercenary the indirect taxes there will be to steal more from him than 0, 33 €!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u181	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u182	If Mr. Prime Minister says that now it is going to be, we say" that's enough! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u183	Mr João Dias, from the PCP, is now registered to submit proposal 11 - C on extraordinary pension updates. [[Pause.]] The Bureau informs me that you are not registered, so I call on the next Member...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u184	Mr. President, I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u185	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u186	Mr President, just to clarify that it is Mrs Diana Ferreira who will use the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u187	All right, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs Diana Ferreira, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the escalation of inflation, the brutal increase in the cost of living and the clear risk of worsening inequalities and increasing poverty require measures to address them. In recent years, the insistence and intervention of the CFP have made it possible to put an end to cuts in pensions and reforms and to ensure extraordinary consecutive increases. This is because we know that if it depended on the PS, these increases would never have existed. And nothing prevented the PS from ensuring extraordinary increases since the beginning of this year, as the Prime Minister himself has already said. It would be important for the PS not to hide behind a falsehood in order not to take on what it does not want to guarantee the pensioners and pensioners of our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u189	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u190	The current moment requires that all pensioners and pensioners be assured an extraordinary increase which rests the lost purchasing power, as the CFP proposes, an increase of 5, 3 % for all pensions, with a minimum value of 20 €. It is of the most fundamental justice that immediate measures are taken to value all pensions, because the refusal of increases in pensions that restore lost purchasing power is a cut in pensions. in the same way, it is essential to strengthen the social protection of unemployed workers, restating social protection rights that they already had. Improving the conditions for access to unemployment benefits, increasing their amounts and prolonging payment time is the solution that ensures that the unemployed will not be unprotected. It is unacceptable, even considering the present moment, to strengthen the social protection of children and to ensure effective compliance with their rights, extending the scope of family allowance—which is not a provision of combating poverty, is a right of all children—in view of their universalization, and changing the limits for the clearance of income and determination of family allowance scales, ensuring that, in the face of the increase in the national minimum wage, which, although insufficient, can change the steps, no child is denied the right to family allowance and its amounts are not diminished. The improvement of the social protection of people with disabilities is also decisive, in view of the particular vulnerability of this social group. We therefore propose that the scope of social benefit be extended to include and increase its amounts — a need that is increasingly confirmed. And, in view of the present situation, it is essential to ensure an extraordinary update of the IAS (indicating social support) by 4 %, with effect from 1 January, without prejudice to the application of more favourable rules for beneficiaries of the various social benefits resulting from other legal, contractual or regulatory provisions. All these proposals from the CFP aim to enhance a set of social benefits, establishing criteria for social justice, raising the income available and fulfilling the role of the public social security system, as an instrument for the redistribution of national income, in a framework of exceptional and brutal increase in the loss of the purchasing power of workers, pensioners and the general population. What matters is whether the PS is willing to take this path or whether this appreciation of social protection is denied. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u191	Still on the subject of updating pensions, and to present proposal 1379 - C, Mr Paula Cardoso has the floor of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in fact, being strong with the weak is a kind of motto of the socialist governments and once again this Article 60. the, in relation to pensions, is shown. [[PS protests.]] Therefore, pensioners continue to be the weakest link in this chain, with no claiming, vulnerable and increasingly poor, as well as showing the numbers of poverty in the third age in Portugal. The PSD, sensitive to the right constituted throughout a contributing life, believes that it is of the most fundamental justice that the rule of updating pensions results in a wide discussion within social consultation, respect for economic cycles and pension levels, taking into account safeguard mechanisms that guarantee a minimum increase in pensions under 3, 5 of the IAS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u193	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u194	The inflationary trend has severely exacerbated the already weak purchasing power and even jeopardized the survival of pensioners. And don't tell me that the increase in pensions generates an inflationist spiral, because you know that's not true. in this sense, the PSD can not fail to present this proposal, in respect for this most unprotected population. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u195	For an intervention on behalf of the Government, Ms. Ana Sofia Antunes, Secretary of State for Inclusion, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u196	Mr President, Dear Members, pensions have an ordinary and automatic regular update, which occurs annually on 1 January, according to the values of inflation and the increase in gross domestic product. This, we all know. Since 2016 this update has been happening regularly, including the Government has been updating the calculation formula, which allows all pensions up to 2 IAS to have increased by 6, 4 % over the accumulated period, taking into account that the accumulated inflation is only 5, 2 %. We cannot forget, and we do not forget, that these pensions were effectively frozen by 2015. We do not forget the 'grey plague' and the 'grey plague' either! Open... However, we have managed to realize, every year, extraordinary increases of €10 in pensions. The same increase will happen once again with the Budget for 2022, with retroactive effects to January, in all pensions up to 2, 5 IAS, i.e., 1108 €. I recall that this update could already be in force, it would not have been the lead of the Budget, but indeed it has all the conditions to be in force as soon as the Budget is approved, with retroactive effects on 1 January, as I have just mentioned. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u197	To submit proposal 1170 - C, on the increase in pensioners' incomes, Mr José Soeiro, of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u198	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, during the period of austerity, the right attacked pensions, cut pensions. In 2015, the agreements on the left were supposed to recover pensioners' income by regular update, or by extraordinary updates. With inflation, the regular increase — which no longer reaches all pensions — and even the extraordinary increase was eaten by the increase in prices, which means, Mr President. Members of the Socialist Party and Members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Members of the Government, who with this Budget and this proposed law we are discussing, the purchasing power of pensioners will decrease. The pensioners will impoverish in 2022. Therefore, in order to avoid this de facto cut in the purchasing power of those who live in their pension, the Left Block presents this amendment proposal and considers it essential to an interim update of pensions — to add to regular update and extraordinary update — at least 4 % of the inflation that the Government itself provides, so that at least €10 is added to what has already been announced by the Government, in terms of extraordinary increase, and to ensure that no pension with more than 20 years of discount falls below the poverty threshold. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u199	We now refer to Article 62. the proposal for a law, which deals with budgetary transfers to autonomous regions. For an intervention, Mr Carlos Pereira of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u200	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, since 2016 I have never made an intervention, in the discussion of the speciality, on matters of the autonomous regions. And we did not make any intervention because we always preferred the discussion with the parliamentary group and with the government, in order to ensure the maximum of proposals for the Autonomous Region of Madeira, good proposals to help the Madeirans. Today, I decided to make an intervention, because when I went looking for what we did since 2016, I found two pages full of completed and running proposals. And it makes all the sense, today, to remind the Madeirans, but also to this House, that what we commit to in the various electoral acts—since 2016, there are already three — we are fulfilling. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u201	I will lose one minute to read, because otherwise it would take a lot of time, a significant set of proposals adopted long ago, some being implemented, others already completed and others which, with this strategy we have followed, will also be implemented in this Budget. The co-financing of the hospital, which was so much said would not be done, is in operation and Madeira is already receiving money. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u202	The reduction of debt interest, which the PSD imposed on the region, is realized, we are saving millions of euros; substantial means of revenue from the Santa Casa da Misericórdia games are transferred to the region, which has never been done during the PSD government.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u203	Well remembered! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u204	The solutions related to the transit rights of the Madeira Electricity Company is a subject that was already in court and that we resolve. Regarding the International Centre for Madeira Affairs, we always solve the problems, some of them created by the management of the Autonomous Region of Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u205	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u206	The new law for the registration of ships made the registration of Madeira's ships one of the most competitive in Europe and, of course, a pride for Portugal. As for the law of regional finance, we have always met, but not all have complied and the PSD in particular has failed. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u207	On the regional PRR, today we have a situation that allows us to have more means than we have, from the point of view of the national average, and that is a compromise we have taken and we have fulfilled. The measure on support for attracting new airlines to the region is being implemented, as well as the means available for five new teams for Madeira, which is in progress and will be implemented. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u208	Financing for submarine cables is being implemented, improvements in air transport to Madeira and Porto Santo are being implemented.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u209	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u210	The continuous and consistent guarantee of air mobility between Madeira and the continent is also realized and, finally, the strengthening of more than 40 million for social housing with the local authorities. These and other measures have been implemented. So the message I want to leave to the Madeirans is that they can count on the Parliamentary Group and the Government of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u211	For Article 65. o — Public service obligations in the Autonomous Region of the Azores, requested the floor of Mr Francisco César of the Socialist Party. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u212	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, this is a good budget for the Autonomous Region of the Azores. It is a budget of commitment, it is a budget of fulfilment of the word given. It is a budget which, first of all, as has already been mentioned here by my colleague from Madeira, complies with the law. He abides by the law of regional finance, which did not happen to other governments of the Socialist Party. It is a budget that strengthens transfers to the regions and in particular to the Autonomous Region of the Azores, at VAT level, with about EUR 21 million. It is a budget that enables autonomous regions, through the flexibility of budgetary rules, to be able to adapt their policies to the reality of the Autonomous Region of the Azores itself. But it is also a budget that pays attention to the concerns of the Azores, an improved budget by the Members of this bench, including, for example, the question of submarine cables, the question of the São Miguel prison establishment, the installation of the meteorological radars, which are already at its final stage, the responsibility that this government has to have, and which it assumes, of co-operating in the expansion of the Horta airport track. It is also an attentive budget to those who must be the commitments of the State, in particular the mobility of the Azorians to the continent and Madeira, with public service obligations, to the island of Santa Maria, to the island of Pico, to the island of Faial, assuming the electoral commitment to have a model of mobility that allows the Azorians to travel under the conditions deserved by the Autonomous Region of Azores.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u213	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u214	They often ask me: "Is this the perfect budget for autonomous regions? » Well, there are no perfect budgets, but there are budgets better than others or more perfect than others. This is a good budget for the Autonomous Region of the Azores, which clearly contrasts with the PSD budgets in relation to the Autonomous Region of the Azores. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u215	Mr Paulo Moniz, from the PSD, now speaking, will present proposal 1291 - C, establishing exceptional public procurement measures by direct adjustment related to the damage caused by hurricane Lorenzo in the Autonomous Region of the Azores, and which will weave, I am sure, other considerations. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u216	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, first of all, wanted to say that this is a bad budget for the Azores, contrary to what the Socialist Party says. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u217	It's a budget that has less than 20 million...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u218	There's 21 more!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u219	... and, Mr. Member, 21 million VAT are the taxes generated in the Azores.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u220	They are not generated in the Azores!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u221	It's not true, it's not advantage, it's not nice to use the taxes that are charged to do politics. [[PSD applause.]] I would like to remind you that this budget contains priority proposals which the PSD has received and which it presents as amendments, because they are fundamental. The PS does not speak in the funding of the University of Azores. The PS does not speak in the exemption of social security for entrepreneurs of São Jorge. The PS again forgets the Azores.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u222	You're not talking about what we've already done!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u223	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the fundamental question: we, now, will be like cotton, will be true. And the truth is whether, at the time of the vote, those who here claim oaths of love to the Azores will vote in favour of the proposals they answer to the Azores. [[PSD applause.]] There's a moment.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u224	You are going to vote against our proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u225	Mr President, there is a moment for the discussion and there is a time for action and for the vote to prove who is with the Azores. Let's be careful. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u226	Mr Joaquim Pinto Moreira, from the PSD, now gives the floor to Mr Joaquim Pinto Moreira, on Article 82. o — Decentralisation Fund and financial transfers under decentralization and delegation of powers. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u227	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, the issue of decentralization is not due and sufficiently dealt with in this proposal for a State budget. Depreciation in the transfer of competences to municipalities has been the main issue challenged by the majority of local authorities, who consider that, more than effective competences, what is being passed to them is a set of charges. And this budget doesn't bring any news. The value of the Fund for Financing Decentralisation is the same as that of the State Budget dropped last October. The delays in the process of decentralization, the lack of transparency in the identification of resources, resources, personnel and goods by various departments of central government and government, as well as the lack of dialogue, continue to lead to great confusion and create much mistrust. in this budget proposal, the Government wants us to believe in its commitment that, if the funding of decentralized competences is insufficient, it will be complemented, on the other hand, in the budgets of the various contributing ministries. Unfortunately, however, we and the Portuguese authorities have little reason to believe in this government and that is why the PSD has given an amendment proposal to this budget, where we first propose an assessment process, every three months, of the adequacy of the financial resources in the face of the expenditure incurred by the municipalities and that it corrects the financial packages, with the appropriate audits, within a maximum of three months, after each evaluation. Secondly, we propose the reactivation of the Commission for the Monitoring of Decentralisation, which was extinguished on 31 March, with representatives of the government areas involved in the process of decentralization, the ANMP ( National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ), the ANAFRE ( National Association of Freguesias ) and the parliamentary groups. We hope that these PSD proposals will be approved, for the benefit of the populations and the autarchs, for the benefit of the process and the country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u228	Mr Rui Tavares, of the Book, has the floor on Article 99. o — Housing for victims of domestic violence and housing for homeless persons. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u229	Mr. President, Dear colleagues, Dear Members of the Government, the situation of someone who is a victim of domestic violence is one of the involuntary situations which constitutes a real scourge in our society and which we must combat by all means. It is proposed to try, in this budget, in various ways, to help people who are victims of domestic violence, to be able to have a more autonomous, safer life and therefore with greater support from the politically organized community and the State. That is why, in the context of the enlargement of the unemployment allowance we propose, we do not want the social state to fall back by one millimeter in terms of access to the classical unemployment allowance, but we propose to extend it so that victims of domestic violence can have access to the unemployment allowance and thus have an opportunity to reorganise their lives. And therefore we also include, together with other measures relating to the enlargement of the unemployment allowance — that we will continue to negotiate with the Government until the last minute, such as enlargement to families moving within or to people presenting credible training plans — this amendment, which basically concerns enabling people to have a life of greater autonomy, dignity and security.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u230	We now refer to Article 100. o — Special condition for access to the subsequent social unemployment benefit. Mr Rui Rocha, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u231	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what the Liberal Initiative proposes, in this regard, is an appreciation of the role of the unemployed in returning to work. The system today, on the one hand, has incentives for companies, incentives for employability, and today, above all, we have companies to show difficulty in hiring, and on the other hand, on the part of the State services that follow unemployment issues, a strategy to monitor unemployed citizens. It is true that unemployed citizens have the responsibility to develop a personal employment plan, but often these personal plans — even by the approach that is possible — are formal plans: training courses offered to these people are not always suitable courses for returning to the labour market and proof of obligations, such as that systematic or periodic referral of applications has been made, are formal measures. Fortunately, the requirement for regular presentation has already ended, but we must recognise that these are still relatively formal measures. Thus, our proposal is in the sense of a positive perspective, never of punishment, never of persecution of those who are unemployed, but of encouraging, to give a premium to the unemployed citizens who quickly return to the labour market. Return to the labour market is important, and as soon as possible, because the prolongation of the unemployment situation has psychological and social consequences. Each month that one person is in unemployment makes it harder to reach the labour market and we therefore believe that it is possible to reward the effort to return as soon as possible. On the other hand, the return itself often has associated costs or difficulties: it is necessary to reorganize life, sometimes it is necessary to invest, either in means of transport, or in the reorganization itself, it is necessary to overcome fears of a new working context, etc. Therefore, what the Liberal Initiative proposes is that when an unemployed person returns to the labour market he may receive, as an incentive, a premium for his proactivity, 50 % of the value of the unemployment fund to be delivered, taking into account the initial approval of the subsidy. This is a measure that encourages rapid return — the sooner we get back to the labour market, the greater the incentive — and it is a measure that has to do with precisely the prospect of putting the unemployed at the heart of the strategy of returning to the labour market, not penalizing them, not prosecuting them, as has already been done, but encouraging them and rewarding them for being able to promote their own employability. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u232	To present the proposal 621 - C of BE, of an annual update of the indexing value of social support, Mr José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u233	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the indexer of social support is the reference to all social benefits. Poverty control benefits, non-contributory benefits refer to the indexing of social support. If this does not increase, depending also on the inflation gallop, all those who depend on these support will lose income and impoverish. Our proposal, as we have done with regard to wages and pensions, is that the IAS also has an increase corresponding to the inflation envisaged by the government itself. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u234	On this subject, you have the floor of Mrs Rita Madeira of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u235	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, over the past few years we have had major discussions about the social security system we want. On the other hand, a totally protective State is defended, which must be present in all areas of protection of social risks; on the other hand, a public social security system, which must occupy the least possible area, ensuring only basic benefits, leaving for the private initiative all the remaining protection space. But, regardless of which of the systems we want for our country, there is a question that we should all share and that we should all look forward to: a strong and sustainable system. Despite what has happened in recent years, in which social security has had to respond to challenges that we could hardly imagine, the truth is that we have an increasingly robust, increasingly reliable system, as demonstrated by the positive balances of recent years. That is also why the Portuguese continue to trust us, because they know that we have a universal and solidarity system, which meets the challenges, protecting everyone, without discrimination, always focusing their interventions on people. An example of this is the strengthening of the policies of integration of homeless people, particularly in the investment in housing support measures in the models of Housing First and shared apartments, as well as the increase of more than 2000 places in the National Emergency and Temporary Housing Stock Exchange. But this budget also prioritizes investment in the social and solidarity sector, particularly through the implementation of the Social Qualification Programme, but also by strengthening the PARES ( Social Equipment Network Enlargement Programme ), which is already in 3. the generation. But we're going further. We will develop a new generation of home support, more innovative and more flexible. We will implement 278 teams of the Radar Social program, covering all the national territory, whose aim is to identify people and families in social vulnerability or isolation. It is also the Budget of Guarantee for Children, to combat extreme child poverty, and that which significantly strengthens the benefits of family allowance. But, as this Budget is of all and for all, it does not forget one of the main objectives, which is the inclusion of persons with disabilities or disabilities in society, which is the responsibility of the State, as one of the guarantors of full enjoyment of all fundamental rights to all citizens. This budget reflects a clear path, which places an inclusive growth, on a social transformational agenda, capable of responding to social and economic crises, marked by social investment as an engine for combating poverty and social exclusion, making it a Budget that everyone is part of. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u236	To submit proposal 1388 - C of the PSD, to add Article 112. o-B — Amendment to Law No 2 / 2022 of 3 January, Mr Nuno Carvalho of the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u237	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by complimenting you. In practice, this proposal will try to compensate for the excess of government promises in the election campaign. They both promised that when they reached the State Budget, what you had to do was give priority to what you were going to fail. And it's a shame they've decided to fail directly with families. When they announced this measure of day care — and you grew up for everyone — your answer was to decide that it was only one year old.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u238	They voted against it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u239	The PSD proposal extends this measure until the second year of age. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the question here is very simple: how many children and families will be out of that which was your promise of free day care? [[All right!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u240	How many private institutions of social solidarity do you know at the moment how this measure works? Therefore, if you do not respond and if you follow, in this plenary, if you are silent, what we will see is that your election campaign, in practice, was like Mr. Prime Minister's election campaign some time ago, when he applied for a municipal chamber and said that Ferrari and the donkey were going at the same speed: they went to announce a Ferrari during the election campaign and this budget runs at the speed of a donkey, because, in practice, it does not get anywhere. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u241	The last Member to attend this morning is Mrs Joana Barata Lopes of the PSD, who will speak on the report on the Financial Sustainability of Social Security.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u242	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members have been hard to talk about the sustainability of the pension system. The PS of the pass-a-culps, attempting to make their governance forgotten, and a management full of ideological popes consecutively plunged all the proposals of transparency, preventing the information from reaching the Portuguese in a clear and understandable way. Now, the Prime Minister is proud of having the right to do what is necessary. The PSD proposes that the Report on the Financial Sustainability of Social Security of each Budget contain a specific chapter on intergenerational equity, i.e., the State must demonstrate to the Portuguese what the future impact of each measure adopted today. Electoralism cannot be worth more than truth. If we know today that a Portuguese who retires in 20 years will receive half of what is his due today, how can we vote against the vote? Who shouldn't be afraid. Will the PS fear or approve transparency measures? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u243	The Bureau's prudent warning has had the expected effect and therefore there are more requests for intervention. I begin by giving the floor to Mr. José Soeiro, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u244	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, one in ten workers in Portugal is in a state of poverty. In 2022, without an extraordinary increase in wages and with productivity growing 3, 5 %, we will see, with this budget proposal, the increased transfer of labour income to capital, and is a huge imbalance in this distribution of income. An interim increase in wages, as the Left Block proposes, of at least €30, particularly for the national minimum wage, is an essential measure to defend people's incomes, on whom their wages depend to meet the costs, to protect incomes and also to avoid the contraction of domestic demand, which is an effect of not recovering and protecting wages. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u245	The Secretary of State for Inclusion, Ana Sofia Antunes, is now registered, so you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u246	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as regards the measure of free daycare, a measure which has been approved and regulated and which has been in force for two years since school, I would just like to clarify the following: by the end of April 2022, 30,615 children were covered by this free time; in all, during these two years, a total of 48 000 children have already been covered by this free time. This gratuity has been in force during these first two years, and is now in force for the children inserted in the first and second income steps. The legislation now approved, Law No 2 / 2022, then came to the enlargement of the measure, and its scope, as well as the universe of children to be covered, is currently in negotiation with the partners of the social sector, as expressly stated in the same law, when it says that the vacancies to be covered by the free of charge of day care are the vacancies of the system of cooperation, and never anything else has been written there. So I just want to clarify the following: the government does not speak out before having its negotiations with the partners who will implement the measure on the ground in the IPSS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u247	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u248	We don't talk until then we do.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u249	Electoral campaign!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u250	unlike others, we don't talk outside where we should talk. [[P.S.'s applause.]] To conclude this brief statement, I would also like to say that — as the government is seized of this matter, and we have evidence given, because freeness already exists, it will not be created in September 2022 — there are those who do and there are those who speak. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-23.u251	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded the debate in today's specialty. Tomorrow, we will resume work in plenary at 10 a.m. I draw attention, in particular, to the direction of the parliamentary groups, that the debate will take place in three days: first, we will discuss the rules which have been, however, legal; then we will have a time to vote on the rules of counsel, the articles and the amendments to the plenary; and then we will continue with the discussion on the speciality. See you tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 58 minutes.]]
