ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we already have a quorum and all parliamentary groups are represented, so we will start our plenary session. [[It was 10 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. This day has an additional meaning, because it is the Assembly Day of the Republic and we will also have the pleasure of receiving several schools that visit us this afternoon. The first item on the agenda was set by schedule of the PSD and consists of the joint debate, in general, of Bills Nos 70 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Second amendment to Law No 32 / 2008 of 17 July transposing to the domestic legal order Directive 2006 / 24 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 March on the conservation of data generated or processed in the context of the provision of publicly available electronic communications services or public communications networks, in accordance with Constitutional Court judgment No 268 / 2022, 79 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Amend Law No 32 / 2008 of 17 July in order to harmonize it with the constitutional requirements in force, and 100 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Alter to Law No 32 / 2008 of 17 July on the conservation of data generated or processed in the context of the provision of electronic communications services, and the Proposal for Law No 11 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Regulates access to metadata relating to electronic communications for criminal investigation purposes. To intervene and present Bill No. 70 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), Mr Paulo Mota Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Assembly of the Republic shall discuss at the initiative of the PSD a number of projects aimed at solving the problems created by the unconstitutionality declared by the Constitutional Court and in contravention of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and the provisions of Law No 32 / 2008 on the preservation of data generated or processed in the context of the provision of publicly available electronic communications services or public communications networks, common « metadata ». These are the metadata of electronic communications or telecommunications, understood as data generated or related by these communications, which includes both basic data — identity data and other data of the holders, identification data of devices and data cards — such as traffic data, i.e. information about the day, time, duration and subjects of communication, geolocation, etc. , but does not include the very content of the communication. Parliament is debating this issue on the basis of the PSD's legislative initiative, which, a few days after the Constitutional Court's judgment has become public, presented a bill to solve much of the problems raised by the PSD. This, while the government — which for years has done nothing! — it constituted a working group and the PS, certainly in order to try to disguise its inertia, said it was wrong of the PSD initiative that allowed the scheduling of other related initiatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u3	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u4	Thus, in addition to this legislative agenda of the discussion of the Bill No. 70 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), the Proposal for Law No 11 / XV / 1 are under discussion in this Plenary. a ( GOV ) and Bills Nos 79 / XV / 1. a ( CH) and 100 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ). All these initiatives claim to have as their primary objective to comply with the law in force with the Constitution, following Judgment No. 268 / 2022, which declared unconstitutional, with general mandatory force, rules of that Law No. 32 / 2008. However, as I shall say next, the fact is that the Government's initiative does not intend to expel, that is, to heal or eliminate an unconstitutionality in this law. First, « lay down the towel on the ground», closing in the forecast of a regime of conservation and access to metadata, so far held by all — even by the Government itself — as essential utility, in particular for the initiation of the investigation work of criminal police bodies. It was essential, but under the cloak of an alleged paradigm change, they present to us a project that lacks it! It is recalled that Judgment No 268 / 2022 considered that the fact that the law does not provide for the need to store data in the territory of the European Union called into question, in particular Article 35. that of the Constitution, which obliges that such data may be controlled by an administrative entity, which is, in the case, the National Data Protection Commission. It also considered that it did not provide for a notification to the visa that the data stored had been accessed by the criminal investigation authorities violated the right to correct use of the computer and the protection guarantees of the holder, who had not been informed of that assignment. It considered, thirdly, that a generalized and undifferentiated one-year conservation of traffic and location data violated the principle of proportionality, in conjunction with the right to reserve on privacy of private life. This judgment, in declaring unconstitutionality, removed from the legal order with retroactive effects the regime of so-called « metadata ». by doing so, it generated gravity and an improperly emboldened, unusual social alarm and, in view of what was at stake, even exaggerated, being certain that, in the past, only processes can be affected — whether they are pending or already passed on trial — in which the recourse to metadata has indeed been the decisive element for condemnation. The PSD believes that it is inadmissible, it must be censured and does not contribute to the solution of the problem a reaction of creating social alarm, even if sometimes it comes from judges or, perhaps more expectable, from political forces that intend to exploit such feelings to try to grow with their extremist views. It should be recalled — although it should be unnecessary — that political agents should not act as arsonists, but should not, in particular, when they have government functions and much less in the case of the Prime Minister, attempt to teach the courts the better interpretation of rules of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Much less should they recommend to lawyers what to do, or not, in defending the interests of their constituents, as, unfortunately, in this case, even the Prime Minister wanted to do and the whole country assisted. Political agents should solve the problem or try to solve it at least by offering proposals for solutions. This is what the PSD has done, also refusing the demagogic attack on the Constitutional Court. In fact, it is attempting to escape the problem and not wanting to resolve it, seeking and insisting that the Constitutional Court return to the question of the retroactive effects of the decision when, in Judgment No. 382 / 2022, at the request of the Attorney-General of the Republic, he has already pronounced himself on this and said that he has the faculty, which he uses exceptionally, to remove the normal effectiveness of unconstitutionality, retroactively from the rule of legal order. If he did so, it would also be incompatible with the law of the European Union, and it is true that any lawyer could always raise the issue of contradiction to the Charter of Fundamental Rights at the Court of Justice of the European Union. Therefore, it is not only a fruity attempt, this insistence, as of nothing further, from the point of view of preserving the metadata regime. It is recalled that the origin of the problem is in Directive 2006 / 24 / EC, which, in turn, gave rise to Law No. 32 / 2008, approved by a socialist Government that, in fact, was a member of the Prime Minister. The truth can't be squatted. Notwithstanding the content of this judgment of 2022 and that it has been given only now in April 2014 at least since 2014 that the adaptation of this law to the European case law, however signed in judgments of the Court of Justice, in particular : in the judgment of 8 April 2014 of Digital Rights Ireland, which invalidated much of this Directive ; in the judgment of 21 December 2016 of Tele2, which invalidated the Swedish regime ; in the judgment of 6 October 2020 on the Belgian and French regimes ; and more recently in a judgment on the Irish regime. The Portuguese Government has only ruled in one of these judgments. Although it has been notified, it has not even intervened in these proceedings, but already knew about them, as it has been notified since at least 2014. The Portuguese Government already knew that there was a confrontation discussed in the case-law between the security and prevention and clarification of crimes, on the one hand, and the protection of privacy and fundamental rights, on the other. This right to privacy is, and I quote, in the words of the most famous legal article ever written by Samuel Warren and Louis Brandeis, « one of the most important and most valued rights by civilized people ».
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u6	It was already known that the European Court of Justice had considered that the directive — and therefore the Portuguese regime — was contrary to the principle of proportionality in its areas of need, not so much in the adequacy and fair measure, at least by considering it unnecessary for these criminal investigation purposes. All this was, and it's, well known. All of this the Government could, in its consequences, anticipate. Therefore, one cannot fail to regret the delay in the reaction of the Portuguese Government until we compare what happened in other countries, such as Germany, where in 2015 — in the year following the first judgment of 2014 — a legislative amendment was soon adopted.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u8	This is what we call « negligent inertia », « qualified omission of the legislator » and, of course, those responsible for the government's justice policy over these years, even though for years the Minister of Justice has come from the Public Prosecutor's Office. Today, the Portuguese ask for a solution. That is what the PSD wanted to offer, presenting a proposal 72 hours after the Court's judgment was known, while the Government, which waited at least seven years without doing anything, constituted a working group. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u9	But we welcome the government and two more parties, though pushed by circumstances and late, who have submitted their proposals and for what we can discuss. The Prime Minister said they would be discussed in June. It was three days in June and the PSD held this debate. Let us see the solutions in comparison: the PSD project provides for data retention in Portugal or the European Union, provides for the notification of stakeholders and reduces the storage period, in accordance with the principle of proportionality. We welcome the fact that, as the head of the government himself explained, in particular in the face of the spirits that needed to be clarified, some of the Socialist Party's own bench, the PSD project solves a large part, and I would even say that it is the majority of the problems of unconstitutionality detected. Let's see how: the PSD, Arrival and PCP projects choose to change the law of metadata to heal unconstitutionalities, while the government's bill opts for another approach, abandoning the metadata regime. As it cliques in the face of the difficulty...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u10	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u11	... and creates an autonomous regime of access rules for criminal investigation purposes in relation to data already processed and preserved by operators providing electronic communications networks or services. This difference of approach makes it difficult to compare the Government's bill with the other legislative initiatives, although, as I will say at the end, it does not seem to me that they are entirely inconclusive. There are five key themes in which these projects can be analysed: in the data storage mode, within the time of storage, in the notification to the visa, in the data storage location and in the access regime by the competent authorities. As regards data conservation, the PSD and PCP bills maintain the rule of generalized and non-differentiated storage of basic, traffic and location data. The Government's proposal for legislation would like to delete this rule by opting to take advantage of existing retention of traffic data by operators, data they retain for the purposes of invoicing and payment of interlinkages. As for the draft law of the Arrival, also surprisingly, it says that the data cannot be stored in a generalized manner, but only after a reasoned order, in each case, by the judge. That is, choose to disregard its usefulness, let us say, preventive. The Government's solution is different, but insufficient. I'd say it's even a kind of remedy, a remedy. The government has come late to the problem, has delayed and now comes with a remedy. by providing for the use of databases provided for in Law No 41 / 2004, the Government's solution does not provide for a system for the conservation of metadata, but rather the use of databases created for another purpose, such as institutionalizing a kind of diversion of purpose for criminal investigation. [[PSD applause.]] More: provides for the use of databases which are voluntary creation and conservation by operators.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u12	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u13	It is said in the law of 2014 that can preserve them for uncertain time, a time that can go up to six months, but may be less. If longer-term problems disappear, if an operator makes a recovery insurance, it may be possible to keep them for a week or a month. In addition, the Government provides for the use of databases which do not contain geographical location or even data from communications or contacts which do not generate invoices, such as calls received. So it seems to us that this is an insufficient project. The project of the Arrival, on the other hand, also eliminates widespread conservation and the utility of preventive retention of data, such as by submitting them to a regime similar to that of listening, with the order of a judge in each case. That is to say, the arriving « rips the clothes», creating a social alarm as to pending processes, but wants to eliminate the retention of metadata to promote a criminal investigation. This, on the one hand, creates this social alarm and, on the other, removes the instruments from the police.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u14	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u15	With regard to the date of data retention, the PSD bill establishes a differentiation between traffic data and location, with a 12-week period, and other data, and for them it maintains a one-year period, such as, in fact, it is permitted by case law. A similar approach to German law was followed, which provides for a period of up to 10 weeks. The PCP bill, in this respect, is close to the PSD initiative, providing for a 90-day retention period, which is almost 12 weeks, although for all data types. The draft law of the Arrival already sets a six-month period for all data types. I am not going to make a fine comparison of all aspects, but I would like to say that here too, the Government's bill is distinguished, because it takes advantage of the deadline laid down in Article 6 ( 3 ). the, forgetting, however, that it is a maximum time limit. Article 6. that of Law No 41/2004 says that the data can be stored until the end of the invoicing period, i.e. operators can retain the invoicing data, but what the government means is that the police will use them if and when these data are stored for criminal investigation, with this diversion of purpose. There are also differences, although they seem superior to us, as regards the entity making the notification to the visa, i.e. whether they should be the service providers themselves to notify the data holder that they have been transferred or whether they should be the competent authority or the judicial authority. As regards the storage site, the draft law submitted by the PSD provides that they are preserved in Portugal or another Member State of the European Union and therefore prohibits the transmission of data to judicial authorities and criminal police authorities of States other than members of the European Union. However, we do not believe that it is necessary for them to be kept in Portugal, in so far as another State of the European Union offers similar guarantees. With regard to access by the competent authorities, it is an aspect which is not directly concerned. There are slight differences between the projects, but I'm going to skip this aspect, since it doesn't seem to us to be the most relevant. I would also like to say that the PSD bill, as well as that of the Arrival, contains transitional law standards. We have made an effort to determine from when the data must be destroyed and even, eventually, to safeguard the pending proceedings in which the accusation has already been deduced. We are aware that this rule can cause constitutional problems and we are available to review or amend accordingly. Why do we understand that our proposal is the best? It seems to us to be the most balanced one, because: it does not abdicate a metadata regime, i.e. it maintains the possibility of using this instrument which until recently the Government, when criticising the Constitutional Court, said it was essential; it does not provide for a deviation of the purpose of databases created for other purposes, with a purely voluntary retention period; and it provides for the possibility of preserving, for a shorter period, geolocation and also data that do not generate turnover, i.e. it does not leave criminal investigation dependent on databases for invoicing. I believe that the Government has been impressed by the comparison with the permission to retain data for invoicing purposes, and therefore it felt that it should use this, but that approach is insufficient. [[PSD applause.]] Having said this, I would like to add that we are aware that the various proposals — also ours — can certainly be improved in the field of expertise. This is also the result of the densification of the criteria for proportionality that have recently been made in the Irish judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 5 April 2022. This judgment has made it clear that it is possible to preserve traffic data and location data selectively, provided that it is: based on objective and non-discriminatory elements such as, for example, according to categories of persons or geographical criteria; and for a period temporarily limited to the strictly necessary. The judgment also made it clear that this does not violate the principle of proportionality, since, for the investigation of certain online crime, the widespread and indifferent preservation of IP addresses ( Internet Protocol ) attributed to the source of a link is indispensable. Therefore, for discussion in the specialty, we have already prepared a replacement text which : allows the preservation of IP protocol addresses assigned to the source of a connection, such as to date, for the period of one year; allows the data holder to oppose conservation and, therefore, authorizes its preservation, unless this opting out right is exercised; does not permit this opposition as regards data collected in strategic locations — airports, stations, toll areas, certain tourist areas — or concerning certain persons who are suspected, accused or already convicted of the practice of serious crimes, while maintaining criminal responsibility. This text, following the indications of the April 2022 judgment, states that sites and persons should be selected on the basis of objective and non-discriminatory criteria, including a reasoned order which should be issued by the Attorney-General of the Republic. We believe that it is an improvement that eliminates the problems of generalized data conservation, even for a shorter period, and that it should be able to be discussed in the specialty. Therefore, taking into account this possibility of approximation of the approaches to the various projects, including the PSD project and the Government proposal — which, as I said, although it is claudic with regard to the metadata regime is not compatible with the PSD regime, and may both be as assembled in the same text, we believe that it is possible to do so in the specialty. Our responsibility and responsibility for all Members is to try to find solutions that serve the public interest and the country. The PSD did not specialize or specialize in doing opposition in a destructive way, in a strict manner, or in seeing who speaks the highest. Instead, we try to find viable and credible answers and therefore present this project. We have also submitted a request for a discharge to the Commission without a vote, and we are confident that a solution will be found. We have made our contribution, we have taken the first step towards this discussion, and we are therefore prepared to improve the project we have presented. We hope that the other parliamentary groups and the government will also be and we welcome the availability of this work. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u16	The Bureau records the registration of Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block, to request clarifications. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u17	Mr President, Mr Paulo Mota Pinto, I thank you for the content of your speech, because I believe that this is not an easy subject and can be given to many populisms, but I believe you have treated it seriously, despite the differences of opinion we have in various matters. As you know, the Left Block voted against the law that was declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court. There is a certain « shake the water from the hood » by the PSD, because it says that the government did nothing, but when, as early as 2014, the European Court of Justice declared that this directive and its related laws did not respect the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, who was in power was the PSD and did nothing about it. from this point on, the PSD, which defended this law, did not intend to alter it, but on this matter, I do not want to put the gap in war, because it is a debate between PS and PSD. Mr President, I would just like to ask you a very direct question about the draft law that they present, but that in practice is extended both to the draft law of the Arrival and that of the CFP, because in everyone there is an indication that the data should be kept in Portuguese or European territory, in the background, in territory whose law respects the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic or the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. By following the claim and right of European and Portuguese citizens to safeguard their data, I believe that there is a real problem here, and I ask you, is there any capacity to answer us that there is a solution to implement the law currently being proposed by the PSD? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u18	To reply, Mr Paulo Mota Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u19	Mr President, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, we know that the Left Block tends to vote against initiatives that guarantee the right to security,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u20	No, on the contrary, we are for the security of rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u21	...to criminal investigation and therefore to the freedom of the Portuguese, because there is no freedom without security.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u22	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u23	I will not now remember the vote on this law, I just want to say that the generality of European countries has similar laws and there was even a directive in that sense, so if a regime on metadata had not been approved, the Portuguese State would have violated that directive. Therefore, this vote against the Left Block would probably have resulted in this violation of the 2006 directive, but we were responsible for this not having happened. Mr President, I do not agree that the PSD is « waving the water from the hood », which is to use the expression you used. The judgment which invalidated the directive is April 2014, but at that time it was not yet clear what would be the immediate consequences of that decision in national legislation. It was only in 2016 that the first national law was invalidated, the Swedish law, and then there are subsequent judgments of 2020 on Belgian law and French law. In 2019, the Ombudsman submitted to the Constitutional Court an application for a declaration of unconstitutionality. So, although we can say that, in a way, this was predictable since 2014, we say - a posteriori. I think that at the time, in that year when the PSD was still in the government, until it was removed in 2015 it was not required that an initiative be taken soon, but later, after 2016 or at least after 2019, there was no doubt negligent inertia. As for the question you have asked me, we believe that the data conservation regime in other territories of the European Union can provide the same guarantees, provided that they provide for a data protection committee such as that provided for in the Portuguese Constitution. This is the basis for the declaration of unconstitutionality in this respect of Portuguese law, which allows for transmission outside the European Union, even to territories where there are no administrative data protection bodies. Therefore, we think that this has to be assessed on a case-by-case basis, we are available for inclusion in the specialty as a restriction on transmission, but we think that there is no need to predict, as in a kind of nationalism that defends the PCP, that the data should be kept in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u24	To submit Bill No. 79 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), I give the floor to Mr André Ventura, of the Parliamentary Group of the United States of America.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is known that the Constitutional Court ruling which declared several articles of the so-called'metadata law' unconstitutional has raised several important and relevant issues. On this point, the first point I would like to mention is that the effects that this scope could have had were not restricted and, in our perspective, they should have been. This is not to give directions to the courts, it is the genuine opinion of a political agent concerned with the safety of his citizens. currently, pending processes and thousands of investigations are affected, the evidence collection is involved and, above all, preventive arrest. Many of our compatriots may not be aware of the importance that the Constitutional Court decision has had for the maintenance, or not, of preventive detention in many of the cases concerning terrorism, ridicule and others in Portugal. It is true that the government should have acted. There was a decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union in 2014, again in 2016 and again in 2020, but the government did nothing. However, Mr Mota Pinto, let me tell you that it is not just the government that has responsibility for this. As has already been said, in 2014 it was the PSD that was in the government and did nothing, but in 2016, the date of the new decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the PSD was the largest parliamentary group in this House — I repeat, it was the largest parliamentary group! — and did not present any initiative to correct this point. [[Congrats from the CH.]] In 2019, the Ombudsman alerted the Government to this case, particularly then Minister of Justice, Francisca Van Dunem, who also did nothing. We return to the initial point, before we move on to the presentation of this project. It appears today, at least for the Arrival, that the Constitutional Court should have made such a restriction of effects in accordance with Article 282 (4). the Constitution. The Assembly of the Republic should have made this request, in addition, as is clear in the decision of the Constitutional Court, in the request made by the Attorney-General of the Republic. This House was silent when it should have asked that, in serious cases, especially with regard to preventive detention, these effects could be restricted. Mr President, it is neither extremist nor incendiary who raises the problem of security in Portugal and its consequences.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u26	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u27	Extremeist is one who ignores the safety of a people and puts any legal article above it. For us, the security of Portuguese will always be first. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The projects presented here are very different. The PSD project maintains the widespread preservation of data, which is curious, because the Constitutional Court's own decision, the request of Maria Lucia Amaral, Ombudsman, says :« The project concerned, instead of a selective conservation, provides for a generalized and undifferentiated preservation of all traffic data and all the location data of all subscribers. There is no doubt that it violates the regime laid down in the Charter. Do not keep on seeking. ” Therefore, the PSD insists on the same error as the Ombudsman has already indicated that it violated the Charter and, consequently, the Constitution.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u28	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u29	No, Mr President, it is not us who want to question the investigations, we want to resolve a legal problem once and for all. We do not want to go back and forth with legal handicrafts so that we will have a new declaration of unconstitutionality within a year. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The same error has the PSD project when, in the transitional provisions, it again covers all data in a generalized manner and without any selection criteria. The honourable Member said that there are doubts about constitutionality in the transitional PSD standard, but there is no doubt about it. For us, who are jurists, there is no doubt that the norm presented by the PSD is unconstitutional. The Government's proposal is a little more strange, because it repeals the entire Law No. 32 / 2008, repeals the entire law of metadata, and instead comes to make a series of consecutive remedies to solve the problem. With a curious criterion: it does not define sanctions for those who violate the regime. Therefore, anyone who reads does not know what is the criminal or counter-ordinary sanction provided for in the Government's proposal. Was it lapsed? Was it just a failure? Or was it even proposed that there should be no sanction regime in this rule? This is something to which the Minister will be able to answer. The Government's proposal does not define the sanctions regime and therefore lacks regulation at a time when we have to resolve this matter as quickly as possible. The project that the Arrival presents to this House seriously aims to solve a legal problem and, above all, to ensure that the ongoing processes are not completely unused. This project: it cautions the storage of data, not in a general manner, as the PSD project does, but in a proportionate way, with an order from the investigating judge to require such preservation; it ensures the intervention of the National Data Protection Commission for the processing of personal data, as required by the Constitutional Court and the Charter itself; guarantees the right to information of its holders, without questioning the criminal investigation or its objectives; establishes a period for the preservation of data, without questioning the direction of investigations. It is a balanced project, a project that aims to solve a pressing problem and, above all, to safeguard its constitutionality. We also agree that it is in the field of expertise that this project and this discussion can be deepened so that this problem can be resolved quickly. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u30	The Bureau records the registration of Mr Paulo Mota Pinto of the PSD to request clarifications. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u31	Mr President, Mr Ventura, I am not going to come into discussion on the responsibilities of the past in 2016 — which is of interest to us - above all, to solve the problem for the future - but, as he insists on restricting the effects of unconstitutionality, I would like to ask you the following: will you address the same request to the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg? That is, you know that a decision is in question based on judgments of the Court of Justice and, even if unconstitutionality was not invoked, any lawyer—and you know, because you were a lawyer—can raise the issue directly at the Court of Justice or at the Portuguese courts, requesting that it be brought to the Court of Justice. There is, I think, no limitation on the effects that is on us! I would like to understand how this limitation is compatible and whether, in the background, it is no longer a smoke curtain or a kind of pretext to attack the Constitutional Court, or even to achieve some public effect. Then I wanted to tell you that, yes, I believe it is extremist and incendiary to come to generate social alarm without clarifying the scope of the processes that may be involved. But I understand the motivations of the Arrival, which specialized in it. As for the fact that we provide for widespread conservation, I have already made it clear that, as a specialist, we are available to define criteria for selective conservation. I would therefore like to ask whether you know the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 5 April 2022, which says that it is not contrary to the Charter of Fundamental Rights a selective preservation of traffic data and localization data according to certain categories of persons or geographical, objective and non-discriminatory criteria.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u33	Now, it always appears as a defender of the police and the work of the police, but I ask you: do you think that access only after you know the fact, with a judge's office, fills the function that geolocation metadata or communication knowledge at the time when the act is practiced have completed? Do you not think that you are always invoking the police, but in practice you are withdrawing their instruments? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u34	To reply, Mr. André Ventura, from arrive, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u35	Mr President, Mr Paulo Mota Pinto, I thank you for your questions. Look, what we know — and you will know, of course — is that it is not a hypothetical exercise that preventive detention is in issue, it is real. As you know, in our system, unlike in others, preventive detention can last for years and years. As you know, after a conviction in the first instance, there is still preventive detention until the transit in trial. It's true! That's the system we defined. Which means they may be at stake—they are not tens! — many preventive prisons in Portugal. Therefore, Mr President, between cautioning legal and citizens'security and a hypothetical decision which in the future will be taken by a decision of 2020 or 2022 of the Court of Justice of the European Union, I would say that the Constitutional Court should have restricted the effects of this rule. Mr, that is why Article 282 ( 4 ) exists. the Constitution.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u36	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u37	That is why it exists, so that the court, in cases—and I quote— "legal security...", which was the case here, "and of public interest" may restrict the effects of the rule. Secondly, Mr President, I think that in police matters, the PSD has more to justify than has arrived, because it was the PSD that systematically voted against the Arrival whenever we wanted to give more rights to the police or protect them from processes that only penalized and destroyed them.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u38	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u39	The PSD was next to the PS and the Left Block instead of defending the police. [[Congrats from the CH.]] But now I do not want to run away from it, Mr President. We do not agree with this Constitutional Court judgment and we have always said so. And when citizens' safety is called into question, you can be sure that we are always on the other side. The PSD difference for us is this: the PSD presents unconstitutional solutions again so that we will have the same problem in one year. The arrival presents a solution that at least meets what is constitutional. What you cannot say is that the Ombudsman questions the widespread preservation of data when the PSD brings a project, again, with the widespread preservation of data, and you are obliged to say, from the rostrum, that it will resolve this in the specialty. Mr. Deputy, will you resolve in the field of specialty? Oh, my God! Why hasn't he solved it already, and why hasn't he already presented the project? It was very simple. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u40	To submit Bill No. 100 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Change Law No. 32 / 2008 of 17 July on the preservation of data generated or processed in the context of the provision of electronic communications services, has the floor to Ms.Deputy Alma Rivera of the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u41	Mr President, Mrs Minister for Justice, Mrs and Mrs Members: As it is of general knowledge, by judgment No 268 / 2022, the Constitutional Court declared unconstitutional articles 4 with mandatory general force. o, 6. it's 9. the Act No. 32 / 2008 on data conservation generated or processed in the context of the provision of electronic communications services. In summary, the Constitutional Court considered that the generalized conservation of traffic and location data for the period of one year of the so-called « metadata » of all electronic communications users exceeds the limits of proportionality in the restriction of fundamental rights to the privacy of private life and to information self-determination, thereby violating Article 35 (1) and (4). Article 26 ( 1 ) and ( 1 ). the, in conjunction with Article 18 ( 2 ). the Constitution. Moreover, the Constitutional Court decided to declare the unconstitutionality of Article 9. that of the said law, because it does not at any time provide for the need to inform the data holder that they were transmitted in a criminal process of the existence of this procedure, compromising their ability to know the information to which the public authority has acceded in respect of it and also the ability to defend and react against possible unlawful access to that information by breach of Article 35 (1). Article 20 ( 1 ) and Article 20 ( 1 ). the, in conjunction with Article 18 ( 2 ). the Constitution. The consequences of this decision, the constitutional kindness of which is not questioned, are still relevant in relation to the investigation of the most serious crime, as has been publicly stressed by the Attorney-General of the Republic and other entities involved in criminal investigation. The question then arises for the legislator to try to reconcile the objectives of the effectiveness of the investigation of the most serious crime, for which access to metadata appears very relevant, with the safeguarding of constitutional values violated by the law in question. As soon as the decision of the Constitutional Court — which actually did not surprise, after the decisions already taken on this matter by the Court of Justice of the European Union and the National Data Protection Commission — was known, the CFP expressed its willingness to present a legislative initiative in order to try to resolve the problems raised by the Constitutional Court. contrary to the Government proposal, to which I shall refer, the CFP does not propose the total repeal of Law No 32 / 2008. What the CFP proposes is that there is a significant time limitation of data conservation, which is currently one year, for a period of 90 days, after which they should be destroyed by operators. With regard to the issue of communication to interested parties of the transmission of their data to the judicial authorities, it is proposed that the investigating judge who authorised the transmission shall notify the parties concerned of this fact as soon as he considers that such communication is not likely to compromise the investigations or the life or physical integrity of third parties. At this point we differ from the solution proposed by the PSD, which is the responsibility of the investigating judge who authorised the transmission of data to inform the providers of electronic communications services so that they notify the data holders of that transmission. We consider it more logical and functional that it is the investigating judge himself to notify the data holders, insofar as it is up to him to decide that notification at the time he considers that it does not compromise criminal investigation nor endangers the life or physical integrity of third parties. It is further proposed that data conservation for the purposes of Law No 32 / 2008 of 17 July should be carried out by operators in national territory and that their transmission to the authorities of other States should be made strictly in accordance with the applicable legal regime on international judicial cooperation. Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Members: The proposal for a law which the Government submits for discussion, for the purpose of the other initiatives under discussion to resolve the problems arising from the declaration of unconstitutionality of the Constitutional Court, raises serious doubts and reservations about the solutions. Otherwise, let us see: the Government proposes the total repeal of Law No 32 / 2008. It is not therefore confined to the amendment of the rules declared unconstitutional, but it wishes, according to the Minister in her public presentation of the proposal, to change the paradigm. That is to say, there is no longer a database collected by electronic communications providers to comply with the requests made by the judicial authorities under the law and there is only the database available for contractual purposes under Law No 41 / 2004 of 18 August. This option contains two problems. The first concerns the allowable extension of the use of the collected data. The difference between the data collected under Law No 32 / 2008 on the preservation of data to be processed in the context of the provision of electronic communications services — which has been declared unconstitutional — and the data collected under Law No 41 / 2004 on the protection of personal data and privacy in telecommunications, for which the Government now intends to refer, is not very significant as to its extent, despite the law of 2004 to use the term « in particular » as regards the categories of data to be collected. The most relevant question is that if the Constitutional Court considered the collection of data contained in Law No. 32 / 2008 to be excessive, as regards its extension and the period of preservation of one year, the 2004 law maintains an almost identical extension and is omitted as regards the storage time. It is then necessary to ask how long the providers of electronic communications services can keep the collected data, because the law does not determine anything. What the law says is that the deadline is until the end of the period, during which the invoice may be legally contested or the payment claimed. Do not answer this question and refer it to any regulation is to keep open the possibility of a new declaration of unconstitutionality, and therefore to use all the discussion we are making and the time that, in the meantime, is spent. But there is also the 2008 law that the Government proposes that it be repealed, including the use of metadata to investigate serious crimes as defined in Article 2. the law, such as: terrorism, violent crime, highly organized crime, kidnapping, abduction and hostage-taking, crimes against cultural identity and personal integrity, crimes against the security of the State, counterfeiting of currency or securities equivalent to currency, counterfeiting of cards or other payment devices, the use of counterfeit cards or other payment devices, the acquisition of counterfeit cards and preparatory acts and crimes covered by the Convention on the Safety of Air or Sea Navigation. The bill proposes that access to collected data may be made by involving less serious crimes, such as all crimes punishable by imprisonment up to three years or even one year, in the case of crimes committed by the computer system. That is, if there was already a problem with the extent of the use of metadata, this extension in the Government's proposal becomes even greater. There is also another problem with the proposed law, contrary and perhaps even more serious, which is the following: the collection of data provided for in the 2004 law is dependent on the consent of the holder and the law is taxing on it. Article 6 ( 4 ). the, on traffic data, that they may only be processed if the subscriber or user to whom the data relate has given their prior and express consent and the consent may be withdrawn at all times. The same is true of the location data provided for in Article 7 ( 3 ). the law allows judicial authorities to request access to data processed in accordance with Article 6. the, being that any user can simply prohibit prior data from being processed. You don't understand this solution. If this is not what the Government wants, the text to be adopted must be amended in a special way so as not to allow this absurdity. I would like to stress again that the question of the legislator is to try to reconcile objectives for the effectiveness of the investigation of the most serious crime, for which access to metadata appears very relevant, with the safeguarding of constitutional values of greater dignity. It does not seem to us that the Government's bill solves the problems raised, but we are naturally available to work together, in the specialty, to find the best solutions. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u42	Not registering entries to request clarification, we proceed to the submission of Bill No. 11 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Regulates access to metadata relating to Electronic Communications for criminal investigation purposes. To this end, Mr. Minister of Justice, Catarina Sarmento and Castro have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u43	H.E. Mr. President, Mrs. Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs. Members: It is the fundamental duty of the State to ensure that criminal investigation is at all times equipped with adequate and sufficient means for the realization of justice, while ensuring respect for the fundamental rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens. The weighting of these two realities requires that the construction of legal solutions in this field be guided by strict proportionality. The proposed law which the Government submits results from the obvious imposition of an urgent and determined response to the needs of the investigation, detection and repression of crime arising from the declaration of unconstitutionality, with general force, of the rules contained in Law No 32 / 2008 of 17 July, and which is now important to safeguard respect for the Constitution and the law of the European Union. As is known, this law transposed into the domestic legal order Directive 2006/24 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 March 2006 on the preservation of data generated or processed in the context of publicly available electronic communications services with a view to ensuring the availability of such data for the purposes of investigation, detection and suppression of serious crimes. Both the 2008 law and the directive that it transposed are based on the assumption that a set of information should be kept from the use of electronic means, generally for a given period of time — in the Portuguese case for a year — with the sole purpose of being able to be used in criminal investigation, in particular of serious crime, such as terrorism or organised crime. However, it follows from the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the case-law of the Constitutional Court that the current regime cannot survive because it is in disgrace with Portuguese constitutional law—as the Constitutional Court has also stated—but also because it is incompatible with the law of the European Union. This model was put in crisis by either the declaration of invalidity of that Directive of the Court of Justice of the European Union, or at internal level by the declaration of unconstitutionality of the rules of Law No 32 / 200, which made the model of data preservation exclusively for research purposes, previously designed. This is therefore the time to give up a new legislative model that translates a paradigm shift, replacing that one with new rules, now of access to information already preserved, within the framework of the trade activity of operators. It is noted that in the existing Portuguese legal system, companies offering electronic communications networks and services are already required to retain data for the purpose of operating their activities, including invoicing their customers. However, nothing seems to prevent, with the necessary legal framework and respect for fundamental rights, the information already preserved by operators in the current commercial activity, as provided for in Law No 41 / 2004 of 18 August, which regulates the processing of personal data and the protection of privacy in the electronic communications sector. According to this proposal, access to this type of data for criminal investigation purposes is restricted to the investigation of crimes for which the legislator already allows telephone listening under the Code of Criminal Procedure, and which are the most serious crimes, including terrorism or drug trafficking, as set out in Article 187. that of the Code of Criminal Procedure, as well as those which, by their nature, depend on these electronic means of proof, such as the crimes provided for in the Cybercrime Law — Law No 109 / 2009 of 15 September 2009 — and those committed by means of a computer system, provided that they are punishable by imprisonment of a maximum of one year or more. This bill does not advocate indiscriminate access to data. In fact, access authorization is strictly delimited, imposing two degrees of verification: first, the authorization covers a classified and circumscribed range of crimes; second, even if a case is in question which goes back to the type of crimes listed, it must be ascertained whether the actual required diligence is indispensable to the discovery of the truth, and access should be denied whenever this does not happen. The competence to request the data provided for and processed under Law No 41 / 2004, mentioned above, for investigation of the crimes I have just referred to falls to the competent judicial authorities, of course, in terms that they already preside over this type of intervention, with the primacy of the judge but without prejudice to the circumstances—even exceptional—in which it is now admitted differently, and in all cases only when there is reason to believe that diligence is indispensable for the discovery of the truth or that proof would otherwise be impossible or very difficult to obtain. It is therefore a standard to read in the context of the system. It is also in the context of the system that we find planned access to localization data, which is allowed in the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Cybercrime Law, which is why there was no need to repeat in the project. Rules shall also be laid down for the notification to the holder of the data in the order authorising the transmission of such data within 10 days of their proliferation, with special cases being saved, such as the one where such notification may question the investigation within the time limit referred to above, where the notification is to take place within 10 days from the date on which the investigation is made or, before that, as soon as the reasons imposed by it do not exist. Access to pre-existing data processing presupposes access to a set of data whose storage time is pre-determined for the purpose of origin. This period is legally established for the purposes of data conservation by operators for invoicing purposes in the Law of Public Services — Law No 23 / 96 of 26 July — with regard to the right to receive the price of the service provided which corresponds to six months. Pre-determined will also be the place of preservation of these data, which can only be done in compliance with the rules laid down in the General Data Protection Regulation. Finally, I refer to the introduction of amendments to Law No 41 / 2004, more precisely Article 6. the, where a set of data is added that, due to technological advances, are now considered essential for the commercial activity of operators that offer electronic communications networks and / or services, in order to ensure the security of information and inviolability of networks, since, after all, the only modification of this law occurred about 10 years ago, also contributing to the clarity of contractual relations between operators and their customers. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposed law presented here by the Government is the result of joint work by the Ministry of Justice, the criminal police bodies and the Attorney-General's Office, assuming an urgent nature. It is necessary, in the shortest possible time, to lay down rules for criminal investigation anchored in evidence indispensable to the times of new technologies and increasingly technical crime, respecting the rights of citizens in their desire for justice. The change of paradigm proposed by the Government is, in our view, a safe way to overcome the legal and operational impasse in which we find ourselves. These are the terms of the bill we bring you here. That is what demands the realization of justice and does not compromise the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens. And it is at this request that you must respond quickly. That we can count on an extended majority in the construction of a path, in a structural matter, is what I want. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u44	Madam Minister, the Bureau records the registration of four Mrs. Members to make requests for clarification. I assume you answer in blocks of two? [[Pause.]] The Minister informed the Bureau that she would respond to the four requests together. For a first request for clarification, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with — and I believe that this is the question to be asked first of all by the Government — to ask you whether the situation we have seen after the Constitutional Court's decision is chaos and absolute insecurity in the country. It does not seem to us, but I believe that the government has to answer that question, because I find it strange, for example, that Mr Prime Minister's first reaction was 'then we are going to make a constitutional review'. For us, that makes no sense, because on the one hand there is a constitutional framework, on the other hand there is also a framework of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and what was at issue would not only affect the Constitution but also the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. It may have been some of Mr. Prime Minister's volunteerism, possibly — I accept that this may have happened — but it seems to me that the government is obliged to give this information to us to see whether we can leave our homes safely or, in fact, whether we live in a system of insecurity that no one anticipates. I believe that this tranquillity also allows us to discuss this issue with the coldness that is necessary and, from this point of view, it seems to me that the proposal that the Government brings to this debate is more sensible than the others, because it does not reproduce some of the problems that have already been declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court and because it does not seem to add technical problems to the constitutional problems that pre-existing. But there are issues that are worth addressing, because the proposal, which seems more sensible, does not seem to us to be in this context. This debate aims to put in a balance, always difficult balances, rights, freedoms and security, but the Constitutional Court came to say that the rights were in question under Law No 32 / 2008. What was said soon, too, was that this amendment to the law could call security into question. In fact, we know that many of these data, when they can be used against our freedom, can also be used against our security. The Government's response is to give more data than those provided by the law to operators — in a logic that follows the decision of the Constitutional Court — and from this point of view there are problems of security, rights and freedoms on which I must also question. First, should the Government require operators to keep the data in national territory or in territory where the Portuguese law has any validity? Secondly, what guarantees on the safety of these data? This is because, not long ago, one of the large telecommunications operators in Portugal had a computer attack and it is not known what its size was, but it may have called into question some data. And that, then, is also a matter of security for citizens and citizens. If the government says to give « more data to telecommunications companies», then it must answer us how it guarantees the security of such data for citizens and citizens. Thirdly, I believe that these matters should also be specified in the specialty, what is the acceptable time for the data to stay there? We understand that this is provided for in the law, as we know that the question of the size of the data is provided for in the law, of whom it has access to them, and how that access by communications operators should be regulated. But we also know that life, in concrete, sometimes, is different from law and when it comes to a alignment of wills, often, the law goes into the background. I believe that the Government's proposal also fails in the safeguards it should give, in the guarantees on access to these data, even from the point of view of operators. It will certainly also be remembered, that it was not in another country than Portugal that we had cases, which were judged, in which operators were bribed to have access to this type of data. I believe that these safeguards must also be guaranteed to citizens and citizens. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u46	For a request for clarification, Mr Ventura, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u47	Mr President, Minister, I would like to make this previous note: in fact, the reaction of the Prime Minister, when this controversy arose, after having known the decision of the Constitutional Court, was somewhat surprising and worrying. The idea of immediately launching a constitutional review and having to receive a lecture from the President of the Republic on the absence in Portugal of surgical revisions to the Constitution is somewhat overwhelming. I would like to take the floor to ask you four specific questions about this regime. The first is why the Socialist Party and the Government, in this case, have understood that the Constitutional Court's decision does not call into question certain rules of this law, but which questions the whole legislative model. Secondly, why did you not include the sanctions regime in this document? What is the sanctioning regime for violations of the rules that the Government defines here? The third is a little more technical issue. The Government chooses to define the type of crimes in which the use of this type of data detection and preservation can be used, which is somewhat contradictory. On the one hand, he says that the same is for all cases where it is indispensable to discover the truth, but then he says it is for a specific type of crime. Now, I think that if they are indispensable for the discovery of the truth, it doesn't make sense to have a taxable list of what crimes are, until, in some of them, we're talking about crimes with penalties for a year or so, in relation to the Criminal Code. Therefore, what the Government should have been concerned about was the essentiality of this data for the discovery of the truth and not to make a tax list, from a criminal point of view. Fourthly, what justification does the Government give for defining, in this case, a regime similar to, for example, that of the secret of justice, in which, in general, this data preservation is not done, or rather, its transmission, the holder should be notified. The government does the opposite and says: "No, if these data are transmitted to the judicial authorities, the holder must immediately be notified. Do not keep on seeking. ” This is not a good technique, because it is not justified in this case that the general rule should be to be transmitted and only if the Public Prosecutor says no is not to be transmitted. It seems to us that it should be precisely the opposite: it must be the Public Prosecutor's Office or the investigating judge to decide when such data can be transmitted, because they do not compromise criminal investigation. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u48	Mr Paulo Mota Pinto has the floor for a request for clarification to the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u49	Mr President, Madam Minister, I wish to express my pleasure in being able to discuss with you in this context this matter which I know is of your preference. I would like to tell you that I was surprised by the Government's approach, in that it actually eliminates the usefulness of a metadata regime, such as the proposal of the Arrival. There's a kind of interesting convergence here. He believes that it is only with a judge's office after the fact that, for each specific case, the government wants to end the metadata regime, and that it would always be possible to resort to invoices. The law is there and can continue to be used. So I would like to ask you the following, Minister : how does she use the billing data to investigate a criminal who only receives calls? How can you use invoicing data for geolocation?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u50	You can't!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u51	Isn't there a diversion of purpose here? Will they also impose on operators who maintain this regime? If, from today to tomorrow, an operator decides that they stop keeping this data, or that they want to keep it for only one month, how will they use that data? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u52	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the Socialist Party has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, this debate actually calls for a lot of matters, but I think it is essential that we focus on those which he actually calls. The subject of the constitutional review, put by Mr Pedro Filipe Soares and Mr André Ventura, I think it has become quite clear. If, eventually, one day, this may be necessary, it is not about this matter. We have already had the opportunity to discuss the problem that metadata call about access by information services, but that is not the issue we are dealing with here.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u54	Tell that to the Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u55	This is strict, and in the field of criminal investigation, and Mr Prime Minister was quite clear when he said that he was evaluating the judgment and, once evaluated, the conclusion to which we came is the possibility of resolving with a legislative initiative that, yes, it was important to debate. So let us focus on the debate where it is important. I have only one very quick question for the Minister, in view of what I have just mentioned, about an element that is important in the specialty and that has to do with one of the concepts contained in the law, which is that of judicial authority, such as the one that should authorize. It seems to us that there should be no emergency situation in which the investigating judge can be dispensed in the current framework. In fact, that's the result of the law we're changing. It also seems to us that the parallel to be found here should be that of the interception of communications and not other cases where, where appropriate, criminal procedural legislation may admit situations of urgency subsequently validated. Therefore, it seems to us that this is an important and sensitive issue which must be included in the law which has been passed, namely, the clear choice for the intervention of the investigating judge, or a judicial judge, in a strict sense. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u56	To reply, you have the floor of Ms. Minister of Justice, Catarina Sarmento and Castro.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the European legal order and, subsequently, the Portuguese legal order are not yet stabilized, we need to think about the process that is still running at the Court of Justice of the European Union and look at the comments of the Advocate General.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u58	We've made amends!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u59	Therefore, the Government's solution is now the possible solution in this context.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u60	You're underestimating yourself!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u61	On the question by Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, whether the situation we have seen after the decision of the Constitutional Court is indeed chaos. Metadates are one of the means of proof that they are admitted, and that is now worth it, as is also true in the previous situations and which have already been mentioned here. Therefore, metadata are one of the mechanisms of proof that add to other test mechanisms and, in this sense, there is still criminal investigation. Regarding the conservation of data in national territory, we found what we described as a paradigm change. That is, in the previous law, whose rules were declared unconstitutional, as we were talking about a specific database, in fact, had to include this information on the place where the data were kept, but strictly, this is elsewhere in the system. The General Data Protection Regulation shall apply to all data processing that is carried out and therefore obliges data processing to occur on national territory, on the territory of the European Union or in a State providing an adequate level of protection. This is usually the language that is used. But, finally, if the Assembly of the Republic, which is sovereign and which has the legislative competence in this matter, feels that it must require this legal determination, even though it is already found elsewhere in the system, I do not see why that determination cannot remain in this law. This is to talk about the question of national territory. The honourable Member also asked me about the guarantees. The guarantees are those that exist today in relation to data processing in general. That is, the National Data Protection Commission and ANACOM ( National Communications Authority ) have therefore power to monitor and verify data processing in our country. Moreover, cases of violation are punishable, in particular under the Code of Criminal Procedure and under the Criminal Code. That is why, let us say so, all the guarantees. Mr Ventura asked me about the sanctions regime. The sanctions regime is provided for by Act No 41/2004 itself, which we are now also amending. Therefore, the electronic communications law provides for a set of penalties for the use of telecommunications information. The list of crimes referred to is taxing on a question of proportionality. It was the choice. As regards the notification, it was a requirement of the Constitutional Court's own case-law and therefore it is therefore necessary to sign this notification and the forms in which it is made. Mr Paulo Mota Pinto asked me a question about geolocation. I must say that the possibility of geolocation is now provided for in the law of cybercrime and in the Code of Criminal Procedure itself, so these are the data that can be used. He also asked why this information needs to be kept. The trade rules so require, i.e. consumer rights rules require the operator to keep this information for purposes of dispute, in particular of invoices, because if that information is not there, the consumer is not in fact protected. Mr Pedro Delgado Alves raised an issue concerning the judicial authority and the judge. I believe that in my speech, I have already clarified in some way what I understood. There are, in fact, situations in which, by virtue of the case law of the courts themselves, it is admitted that the Attorney-General of the Republic can access the basic data. That is why they should be regarded as competent authorities. However, once again, this Parliament is sovereign, it is in this House that legislation must be made in this area. This was the proposal we brought, and we very much liked that, in a structural area like this, if we could find the broadest possible consensus here. That's the appeal I make. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u62	We are now moving to the stage of intervention. You have the floor, first of all, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz, on behalf of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : In recent weeks, the theme of metadata has been widely discussed on various stages. It is important to make it clear from now on that the Liberal Initiative fights for privacy, a fundamental right that we all value. Privacy itself has a dimension of freedom, a freedom against the interference of public power in the personal and private sphere of each one. For this reason, the defense of freedom passes through the intransigent defense of privacy. Privacy presupposes that strangers do not access information about a sphere of our lives that must be preserved: private and family life. It is true that, on time, privacy can be limited to pursuing legitimate interests, such as the defence of national security. However, these limitations should be provided for in the law, with as much determination and predictability as possible. The State has not only the duty to ensure public security, it has also the duty not to violate the privacy of citizens and to adopt mechanisms that prevent this violation. Only with well-defined and written criteria can we have the certainty necessary and required for the proper application of the law. Only in this way are the Portuguese protected against possible abuses in the sphere of their privacy. The current state of this theme of metadata is total and absolute uncertainty, which harms citizens and their trust in institutions. The Portuguese Government failed to make the necessary legislative amendment to comply with Portuguese legislation after the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union in 2014 on metadata. The Portuguese Government had acted in a timely and diligent manner and we would not have had a declaration of unconstitutionality and we would not be having this discussion today. Moreover, when last year the Portuguese Government chaired the Council of the European Union, it coordinated work on this subject, knowing that Portuguese law violated European law and the fundamental rights of Portuguese, but did nothing to change this situation. It is also critical of the Government's reaction to the Constitutional Court's decision, even suggesting a surgical constitutional review with a view to preventing the Constitutional Court's decision from having its effects. Question: Where is the separation of powers? Where is respect for the trial? Fortunately, the Government has recovered from its fever from the constitutional review and has now presented a proposal for a law on this matter. However, and again, he sinned because of the lack of protection of the privacy of the citizens. The proposed government law, although it does not provide for widespread data conservation, increases the range of data that operators may retain for invoicing purposes such as the date and time of calls made and received, which will allow access to these data to combat non-severe crime, the so-called « criminal baggage ». We cannot agree with this interference in the privacy of citizens, especially in the pursuit of lesser-relevant crimes. In addition, the Government's proposal does not comply with the requirement for a reservation of law in this area, by referring to the rules governing the transmission of metadata to government office, not passing this discussion in the wake of this House. On the other hand, the PSD bill also does not deserve us special membership. This document sins by allowing the widespread preservation of data, restricting, inadmissible and disproportionately, the privacy of citizens, changing only the temporal limit of data conservation to 12 weeks, in no way changing the material extension of the collection. This may be a widespread and indifferent conservation in the smallest time space, but it remains a widespread and indifferent conservation of data from all Portuguese. Basically, to provide for the widespread and indifferent preservation of citizens' data means that operators, without any suspicion of any conduct carried out by these citizens, are required to retain these data. This widespread conservation is thus a presumption of guilt that affects all citizens, whether they are criminals or not. This is unacceptable. In fact, it is the Court itself that does not allow this generalized conservation. Generalized conservation is unequivocally disproportionate and once again we are subject to a decision of unconstitutionality, if the prior or successive supervision of the constitutionality of the diploma is requested, or if there are requests for a preliminary referral to the Court of Justice by the national courts, which has already happened to the German law, in which the PSD has inspired itself. However, this bill does not safeguard legal certainty and, therefore, we are at risk of having to discuss this matter again shortly. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u64	The Bureau records the registration of PS Pedro Delgado Alves to request clarifications. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first speech this morning, which is irresponsible of the parliamentary function, to the point where we are faced with a reservation of competence of the Assembly of the Republic, which is the government that fails not to present an initiative, when all the parliamentary groups that have used this argument have a parliamentary representation since the problem arose. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So the question that I address to you is the following: since you attacked all the projects presented and gave no answer, what is the solution of the Liberal Initiative to this problem? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u66	Mr. Paulo Mota Pinto also signed up for clarification. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u67	Mr President, I would just like to raise the following question: we have heard an intervention here that criticizes the drafts of the parliamentary groups that have tried to present a solution. The Liberal Initiative has done nothing. Basically, I wanted to ask why you did nothing, if it is a manifestation of inability or a lack of attempt to solve the problem. I would also like to clarify now that the German law has not yet been judged unconstitutional or contrary to the Charter of Fundamental Rights, although there is this possibility. Finally, I wanted to know whether the Liberal Initiative, although it has not come to play, has not submitted any proposals, is available to contribute, as we said we were, to improve our project and also those of the other parties, in the specialty. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u68	To answer, you have the word Mrs. Patrícia Gilvaz.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u69	Mr President, since the questions are similar, I will answer Mr Pedro Delgado Alves and Mr Paulo Mota Pinto on a block. The Liberal Initiative considers this to be a complex case and therefore did not present any project,... [[Rice from PS, PCP and BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u70	...but it will certainly be available for us to reach consensus on this matter in the field of expertise and will contribute at that stage. In the specific case of the declaration of unconstitutionality to which Mr Paulo Mota Pinto referred, what I said in my speech was that the PSD was inspired by a German law, which was not judged unconstitutional, but in which there was a harmful referral. That's what I meant. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u71	For an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Moreira of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u72	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The Constitutional Court, by judgment No 268 / 2022, declared the unconstitutionality of rules contained in Law No 32 / 2008, which transposed into the domestic legal order Directive No 2006 / 24 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the preservation of data generated or processed in the context of the provision of publicly available electronic communications services or public communications networks. Specifically, the norm in Article 4 has been declared unconstitutional. the conjugate with that of Article 6. the standard of Article 9. the, in so far as it does not provide for a notification to the visa that the data stored have been accessed by the criminal investigation authorities, from the time that such communication is not liable to compromise the investigations nor the life or physical integrity of third parties. In turn, the above directive had already been declared invalid by the Court of Justice of the European Union, by judgment of 8 April 2014. It was understood that it would allow interference in fundamental rights — if any, private and family life and the protection of personal data — of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. Furthermore, the Court of Justice of the European Union subsequently decided in its judgment of 21 December 2016 that it was incompatible with the law of the European Union with national rules providing for the general and indiscriminate preservation of traffic data and the location of registered subscribers and users in relation to all media for the purpose of combating crime. of Portuguese constitutional law and of European Union law, it seems to result in the understanding that the general and indiscriminate preservation of data on trafficking and location of registered subscribers and users in relation to all the means of communication, for specific purposes of investigation, detection and repression of crimes, regardless of their nature, is prohibited. The storage of data must be done within the territory of the European Union, which is one of the foundations of the Constitutional Court's lead. Secondly, according to the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, these data can only be kept for the purposes of consumer protection with some important, duly calibrated exceptions that our legislative process should now reflect. On the other hand, these operators' bases depend on the prior and express consent of users, which, in accordance with the law, may be withdrawn at any time. Nor do they include data from geolocation, which research agents consider essential for certain crimes, and it is questionable if they can be added, since their nature is strange for commercial and consumer protection purposes. It was because of the failure to rely on operators' practices regarding data conservation, with a view to invoicing and processing customer information requests, that the Belgian Government initiated a legislative process following the Digital Rights judgment, which was clear and included the guarantees necessary for the protection of privacy. It is essential that we take into account the necessary dialogue with the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. This is because, in addition to the two decisions referred to and the decision of the Constitutional Court, which incorporates the European case law protection parameter, subsequent and ongoing decisions, such as that which is now expected with regard to German law. A constitutional complaint against this legislation is also pending before the German Federal Constitutional Court. We therefore have in terms of rights and principles in place in a regulatory framework which we would like to see very much to be taken into account. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u73	Mr Paulo Mota Pinto has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u74	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Moreira, I would like to thank you for your intervention and ask you the following: I withdrew from your speech which you disagreed with the Government's proposal, on the part where it is based on the data of the operators. I do not know whether I understood correctly, so I wanted to explain here, if possible, to the Minister, whether she really disagrees with the use of databases by means of invoicing, either because it is such a diversion of purpose, or because they demand this consent. On the other hand, I would just like to stress that it is clear that this matter is and will always be evolving. The principle of proportionality is at stake, but if we hope for a definitive solution, we will never legislate. I would therefore like to ask you whether you agree that there must be a solution already or whether you are going to be waiting for the time and case law to be consumed and whether you recognise that the most recent judgment — of 5 April 2022, on Irish law, admits selective retention of traffic and location data on the basis of objective and non-discriminatory elements. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u75	In reply, Mrs. Isabel Alves Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u76	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your questions. I believe that there are many challenges we have to solve in the specialty and, as I said in my speech, reporting to me on the second part of your question, the European Union Court itself has already said that these data have to be kept for consumer protection purposes and has listed several exceptions. It is on the basis of these exceptions that I think we will have to work and here we have several challenges to solve, always taking into account the balance between the Constitutional Court and what has been said by the Court of Justice of the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u77	For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government present here: I would like to begin by thanking the PSD for bringing us this important issue, which is of greatest complexity, the debate. However, we cannot ignore that the Constitutional Court's judgment on the law of metadata has indeed brought us an impasse which, in our view, is also serious, because it calls into question the investigation of crimes, such as corruption, on which metadata are the basis of evidence in most of its investigations. Therefore, from the very first moment, the NAP has argued that a working group should be set up, in which it would be possible to hold a set of hearings in order to achieve a strict legal solution, because it seems to us that, more than to legislate quickly, it is necessary for this matter to be properly legislated. in this sense, these hearings to individuals of recognized merit can and should be an important contribution to leaving here with a legal solution that mitigates these aspects that have been mentioned. However, the initiatives of the PSD and the Government have, of course, a doubt and a palmor's error, in particular of unconstitutionality due to breach of the principle of the reservation of law, contained in the regulation of the door office itself, as regards the conditions for the transmission of data. We believe, in particular, that the mere formal amendment, which is envisaged here, of the concrete measures that can ensure the storage of data in the European Union must be amended and worked in the specialty. The NAP is, of course, available to make its contributions in this regard, under the penalty of being legislating once again at a hurry, and we do not correspond to the aspects that have been pointed out by the Constitutional Court, but on the other hand, also because the problem that the Constitutional Court itself has generated from the point of view of security and the fight against corruption is not taken into account.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u79	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the minute I have, I only make three notes. The first is to see that there is, here, the right to privacy on one side and the right to security on the other. The right to the integrity of databases, which keep our data on our electronic communications, is also the right to security. We think of the attacks on computer piracy, we think of the use of databases for the most varied fraud and ridicule purposes. So on both sides, there is our freedom, our privacy and our security. The second note is that this debate reveals something quite interesting about the nature of the debate on European law in Portugal, between the syndrome of the good student on the one hand and the complaints, sometimes very intense, of Brussels' taxes on the other. In fact, what we have here is the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, of 2009, and a decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union, of April 2014, which defend our rights as Portuguese and European citizens. If the PS and PSD, in the midst of a social panic, had decided to amend the Constitution on this subject, one thing we could be sure of is that they would not have amended the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union or the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Good or bad — and so I finish, Mr President — the truth is that these various projects have the great merit of trying to do six years later to correct what was wrong. And for this speciality debate, the Free will seek to contribute to the defence of our rights as Portuguese and European citizens, who are not only incompatible, as they reinforce each other.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u81	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr Bernardo Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u82	Mr President, Mr Paulo Mota Pinto : Allowing a little the paternalist tone with which you made your speech, I would like to tell you that the Liberal Initiative did, yes, a bill, which we did not submit, after seeing the Government's bill, which constitutes a good initial basis for discussion in the specialty. Mr President, the Government's proposal has the great advantage of not having a widespread data conservation, unlike that of the PSD, which, as has already been said by virtually all banks, is unconstitutional. Between making an unconstitutional proposal or not making, for the next time, I advise not to do so, Mr. [[Applause from the IL.]] Some of the amendments we want to make in the specialty have already been mentioned by Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz. In my view, the most important is Article 2. the, in order to reformulate the initial part of this article. It seems to me that the list, as Mr Ventura replied, Mr. Minister, makes all the sense, but what does not seem to make sense to us is that point (c) in which this is applied to crimes of extreme gravity. This legislation does not make sense to be applied in crimes of injury and therefore our first requirement will be the elimination of Article 2 ( c ) and the reformulation of Article 2. o [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u83	Mr Paulo Mota Pinto, from the PSD, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u84	Mr President, Mr Bernardo Blanco, I don't know if it was just the honourable Member who heard a paternalist tone and also don't know whether it was with that tone or with a filial tone that he wanted to give me advice. Anyway, I wanted to make it clear that I didn't want to use a paternalist tone at all. I would like to open the debate, that is what I did, and what I mean is that I regret that the Liberal Initiative has not come with any project to this debate and is merely criticizing. I don’t know if that’s paternalism or what it is. I’ve already wondered whether it was inability or whether it was unwilling to present a solution and that’s the question I keep, since I see you haven’t answered me. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u85	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u86	Mr President, considering this last speech by Mr Paulo Mota Pinto, who seems to have not heard the explanations by Mr Bernardo Blanco, I think it would also be a good contribution for the entire House to note that when this PSD project was scheduled at the Conference of Leaders, the other parties questioned whether they could make any follow-ups and the PSD at that meeting did not give an answer if it was possible or not...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u87	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u88	...and it took some time to give that answer. Therefore, I would also like this to be noted, because if there was so much interest in the participation of other parties in bills, they could soon have said at the Conference of Leaders that the raids were accepted at that time. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u89	Having been present at the Conference of Leaders, of course, I should inform the House that what you say is partly true, and that is certain that, at that same Conference of Leaders, the PSD has been communicating its decision until a deadline x and has communicated it well before that deadline. Mr. Paulo Mota Pinto asked for the floor for an appeal to the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u90	It was to ask Mr President to give the testimony, which he has just given, that it is partially false what has been said here by Mr. Rodrigo Saraiva and partly true... [[Rice from Mr Rodrigo Saraiva.]] ... and also to say that we are here discussing other projects from other parties, just because they could be dragged, because the PSD allowed their drag. [[PSD applause.]] The Liberal Initiative has not done so and comes here, now, with this apology, finally, trying to disguise its disability. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u91	Mr. Rodrigo Saraiva once again asks for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u92	It is an interpellation, because I think there is no need to be for the defense of honor, before this last adjective of the previous intervention. Mr President, it was only to make it clear that in parliamentary work there are three phases and one of them is that of the specialty. If there are people who do not know these phases, the problem is not ours.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u93	Do it or don't do it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u94	In response to Mr Paulo Mota Pinto's requests for clarification, Mr Bernardo Blanco has the floor now. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u95	Mr. President, Mr. Paulo Mota Pinto, I note the PSD's inability to make constitutional projects, but as far as the question you ask me, I have already answered in... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u96	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, who makes requests for clarification, it is assumed that they want to be clarified and to that end they need to hear the clarification, which is being disturbed by the clarification they are producing, at the request of the interested parties. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u97	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't know if the PSD is so interested in clarification, until, in practice, there was no question. I have already answered the question that you asked in my previous speech. I very quickly wish to ask all the parliamentary groups represented in the Committee on European Affairs to approve the request we have made, taking into account the political weight that this matter has in order to have access to the position which Portugal sent to the European Commission last year on this subject — Portugal is of the few countries whose position is not public. Since we are all so interested in this matter, I would like everyone to vote in favour of this request.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u98	This has nothing to be voted on, it has to be dispatched! It's walking forward!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u99	Time's up for the regiments. Let's move on. [[General laughter.]] I must point out that we are approaching the end of the debate. I now give the floor to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, asking all of us the silence we need so that we can hear it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block voted against Law No. 32/2008 and we did well! We have done well, because to make all national citizens suspicious, because that is what we do in practice when data is collected from all citizens and these data are placed on a database for a year, it is unacceptable to our eyes. For us, the right to privacy is not just a detail, it is a «pormaeur». We voted against Law No. 32 / 2008, alerting for its unconstitutionality and we came to be right, more a decade later, but we were right. We were accused of radicalism, as Mr. Paulo Mota Pinto accused us today, right at the beginning of the debate. But, as it is shown today, there were and there are alternatives. Let us start with one that is not even the Left Block initiative and that is the initiative that the Government has brought to this House. So there were and there are alternatives, those who think that the privacy and rights of citizens are always secondary things that they did not want to see them. Secondly, there is another alternative which is the strengthening of the means and resources of the criminal police bodies and this is a fundamental aspect. One of the points on the table is that over many years these means have not been strengthened and therefore the metadata have been delegated what should exist from human resources and from means of criminal investigation. This underfinancing is a problem, it reads the rights of citizens. That is what the Constitutional Court said. That is what the Court of Justice of the European Union also said. And from this point of view, the Left Block has, over the years, brought proposals for strengthening these means and resources. Unfortunately, often the parties that defended the metadata voted against these proposals. Therefore, we are not faced with any inevitability, there are alternatives, we are faced with the choices that have been made against the rights and freedoms of citizens. Why are we also concerned about freedoms in this matter? Because we know that the European law of metadata was, for example, the same law that served for Viktor Orbán, in Hungary, to persecute people who went to demonstrations. For us, freedom is not a detail. It is essential to realize that the law has turned against the rights it said it would respond to and was Viktor Orbán, who is responsible for the maximum in a state of the European Union, who has used European law to pursue its citizens and to reduce their freedoms. On this matter, proudly, the Left Block voted against and, because we are against that atrologus,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u101	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u102	I will finish, Mr. President. We are against this scourge of freedoms and rights which result, as we have seen so many times, in reducing people's safety. Having a source of information about the lives of each of us concentrated and having any computer pirate is, as we have seen, a brutal security failure that we cannot accept. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u103	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Alexandra Leitão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u104	Mr President, Mr Ministers, Mrs and Mrs. Members: What is at stake in the diplomas we are discussing here is to find a balanced solution, in the light of the constitutional principle of proportionality, between different public and private rights and interests in the presence. I speak of the public interest in an effective and efficient criminal investigation, which is also a principle of the rule of law, but I also say that I respect the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens, including the right to privacy and to privacy. The decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the judgments of the Constitutional Court give guidance in this regard and are to welcome all draft laws — and, of course, the bill — which seek to find proportionate solutions within the scales defined by judicial decisions, regardless of the necessary amendments and improvements to be made in particular. This is a complex issue that requires weighting and discourages precipitation, winning with a discussion, in the specialty, around several aspects, firstly, who can determine access to data in criminal investigation — surely a judicial judge — or on the clear identification and without references of the data maintenance deadline. Let me say that the transitional standard of the PSD project causes me some doubts about constitutionality, since it creates the guarantee of consent for the contractual storage of data by operators, with the need for consent when the data for criminal investigation are involved, contrary to what appears to be the result of the project of the Arrival. I also welcome the notification of the data holder to whom access is made in criminal investigation as soon as possible and without prejudice to such investigation. All these and other aspects must, of course, be the subject of ongoing work in the field of specialty, since this is a scheme that justifies an extended consensus which will hopefully be formed here in the Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u105	For an intervention, Mr Rui Paulo Sousa, from the Czech Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u106	Mr President, Mr Ministers, Mrs and Mrs. Members: It has long been known that Law No 32 / 2008, which transposes Directive 2006 / 24 / EC, is inconsistent with the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and to this extent there is no doubt that the Portuguese State was obliged to amend its domestic legislation so as to comply with Union law. in a word : the Government has decided to ignore the case law of the European Union, allowing the inevitable judgment of unconstitutionality of the Constitutional Court. My gentlemen, if you have not noticed, this government disinterest has had two immediate effects of extreme gravity due to the judgment of unconstitutionality. On the one hand, it allowed the fundamental right to the privacy of almost 10 million Portuguese people to be violated for years; on the other hand, much of the serious crime that is being investigated and whose proceedings are pending may be left without due punishment.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u107	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u108	In addition, much of the work of criminal investigators will be broken down and the financial resources of the State will be wasted, not to mention the effect that all this could have in our security and research forces, which are discussed daily with the lack of means, with the low wages and whose appreciation of their careers is not properly recognized. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It wants to be part of the solution to the problem and therefore submits a draft amendment to Law No 32/2008 which seeks to overcome the unconstitutional issues raised by the Constitutional Court and in accordance with the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, in order to reconcile the right to security in a proportionate way by combating the crime and the right to reserve the privacy of the private and family life of the citizens. Both the conditions of preservation and the conditions of access to data must be more restricted in accordance with the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Constitutional Court refer to their decisions. We understand that the amendments we propose are in accordance with the Constitution and the law of the European Union, in full respect of the fundamental cross-border right to all European legal orders: the right to reserve privacy of private and family life. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u109	You now have the floor for an intervention by the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The criminal investigation, its forms, the means available, which, in fact, are being strengthened, the rights of people, even when investigated, and the rights of victims are structural matters in a state of democratic rights. It would therefore be to welcome a compromise which would seek to base the options on this subject, seeking broad consensus in this Parliament. On 19 April, the Constitutional Court's decision stressed the urgent need for a review in this area. The moment of crusade we live is not only Portuguese, after all, the case law of the Constitutional Court follows the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. As long as European Union law does not find itself at a sufficiently firm point of balance, it is inevitable that new solutions and paradigms will be sought. This is a matter of Parliament's competence. It is Parliament and only Parliament that can solve it. The Government brought forward a proposal for a solution immediately after the decision of unconstitutionality. The Government intends to contribute to this solution and calls, as a structuralist, for this matter in a state of democratic law, for broad consensus in this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u111	Before giving the floor to Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, for one speech, I would ask the services which operate the electronic quorum verification system. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u112	Mr President, Mr Ministers, Mrs and Mrs. Members: As we approach the end of the debate, I think we can make a summary of the issues that, with some degree of consensus, we can identify as those that we have to deal with in the discussion in the specialty. It is obvious that the matter is of great complexity, but there is also a point which is based on the fact that, before we had clear and concrete decisions — even though it was an abstract decision — of the Constitutional Court, it was impossible for the legislator to see the need to revisit the law and to understand on what grounds it would have to proceed with the amendment. Therefore, without the 2022 judgment, he was obviously the motivation for urgent intervention, and without this decision by the Constitutional Court, it would be speculative to make any intervention that could not solve the problems that the court would identify. In fact, the debate — and of course we must have that humility and understanding — continues in the judicial bodies of other Member States of the European Union and will continue at the Court itself. We must therefore be aware that developments in this seat of European Union law will have a tectonic effect on the legislation of the Member States, and what we must do is seek legislation so clearly close to the jurisprudence we already know as much as possible. of the projects discussed was also clear that what the Constitutional Court has left us is mirrored in the various legislative interventions presented, whether the lack of monitoring by an independent authority, whether the matter of information to the notified, is essentially the question of strengthening proportionality in what is preserved, on the one hand, and in what is accessed, on the other. The challenge we have to improve the law and overcome these difficulties implies that we must carefully revisit each of these elements, because they all call for different constitutional problems and sometimes contradictory to each other. First of all: what is kept and who authorizes? It is an important point to realize what bases we are talking about and must be absolutely clear in the law what legal construction will allow, perhaps not necessarily a new paradigm, but to add one where there is already matter and other relevant legislation to which I will already refer and which we cannot forget, and fortunately until the House is discussing at this time. We have already had the opportunity to see, and it is consensual in the House, that there must be the intervention of a judge in the authorization of access. We know that there are other solutions to conservation issues. One thing is to give an operator an order to keep data and not destroy them and the other thing is to access data whose preservation was requested with an emergency character. It was important that, like what happens in cybercrime legislation, this should also be identified. It was also important, as Mrs Alexandra Leitão recently mentioned, that the deadlines for the law should be clearly identified, not necessarily by remission, but by making a compilation and good codification of all these matters, avoiding referrals and differentiating the deadlines depending on the illegal criminal offences that are being identified either from the data intended to be used. Indeed, the diversity of data between basic data, metadata, and, within metadata, those of traffic and those of geolocation, and their use for criminal investigation must also take into account these elements, all of them called for for debate and discussion on proportionality. According to the interventions we have heard, it seems to us that of course everyone agrees that there is an obligation of European Union law — I think the CFP will be the only party that will go further, because it will not follow that reading — that the data must be kept in the territory of the European Union. Obviously, its conservation in Portugal will make no sense. Our obligation is to have an area of sharing, not just an economic space, but an area of fundamental rights. Therefore, it is the question that, in this space, the data will be kept with the same guarantee level. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] Finally, on the sides which I have heard echo from the left benches, I must say that we would probably not have such robust legislation on the protection of personal data not outside the intervention of European Union law. It is not a self-criticism, nor is it a reduction in the Portuguese state, but, in fact, the momentum of evolution was the same. And Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares was right. There was a problem in Hungary, but it was also the law of the European Union that helped to solve the problem in Hungary and it was the monitoring of legislation that was insufficient to allow it to become sufficient and guaranteed in relation to the protection of citizens' rights. Then we have a problem that, I would say, is the most complex of all, which is that of geolocation. These are the data that will hardly be included in what is consented to the use of databases that are available to operators and for whom we already have in cybercrime legislation as a means of ensuring their access. It is also important, and that is the point I have just mentioned, that we harmonize the legislative intervention that we have just done not only with regard to the diplomas that are in the various proposals and projects, but also with regard to other matters that are intertwined with them. I am referring, in particular, to the electronic communications law, Law No 41 / 2004, which is currently under discussion in the Assembly of the Republic and whose debate, in parallel with this, is especially important, ensuring that solutions are harmonised. Therefore, it shall be verified at that headquarters whether or not it is dependent on the customer’s billing and its consent, whether or not it is dependent on data lists which may not necessarily be the same. I am also referring to the law of cybercrime, Law No 109 / 2009, which also includes a significant set of authorisations to access data from those we are discussing here. It was essential that they be harmonised, either in terms of procedure or in terms of data identification, or in terms of the crimes to be investigated. The weighting of the seriousness of crimes is even the point which may have been somewhat absent from this debate, but which is fundamental. It has also been referred to in an exchange of explanations for a few moments ago. In fact, it is not the same for us to be dealing with terrorist or kidnapping crimes, in which it is essential to be able to quickly access geolocation data to prevent the practice of illegals already under way, and crimes such as ridicule or counterfeiting, which we recognize are serious, but which is obviously not comparable to the level of endangering the lives and safety of our citizens and citizens or other States of the European Union. Therefore, this differentiation must also occur. There is a proposal from the PSD — and here we have some disagreement — that unfortunately we cannot follow in any way. We cannot look at the transitional standard as a way to cover up or circumvent a problem created by the Constitutional Court judgment. The judgment is clear: only one entity, in our Portuguese legal order, can restrict effects. It's the Constitutional Court and you didn't. In fact, it is important that this debate underline a matter: our Code of Criminal Procedure is a mistake as to the possibility of review of sentence in certain circumstances where there are declarations of unconstitutionality. There are those who interpret that it can be done outside the framework of an intervention by the Constitutional Court and, in fact, it would be a unconstitutional solution that would transfer to the Supreme Court a competence which, in accordance with the Constitution, only the Constitutional Court must assume. We should perhaps consider until we revisit the Code of Criminal Procedure on this point in order to ensure harmonisation between whom, in the Portuguese legal order, can restrict the effects of unconstitutionality. Having come here, I think Mr. Paulo Mota Pinto has noted, and I call for some calm in the work that follows, a spirit of consensus that we will achieve in the field of expertise. It is great that the PSD already has a replacement text ready—and could even have brought it to this debate and thus we had talked about it—but what I think is essential is that in 1. the Commission is set up a working group to examine these initiatives and which, within a timetable which should not exceed the closure of the proceedings in July, allows the Assembly of the Republic to submit a clear solution to the President of the Republic, because he has already announced that he intends to send the law to the Constitutional Court so that no doubts remain. I have already had the opportunity to say that, perhaps before, look at what we are producing can even allow the President to have no doubts, but I understand that, being such a sensitive issue in the community, a court intervention, which is an initial drawback, may even be useful to generate some legal certainty. He concluded by recalling a phrase that is often either misquoted or attributed to the wrong author, but which is very important for what we are doing here, Benjamin Franklin's famous phrase in which he said that "those who sacrifice essential freedoms to acquire temporary security often deserve neither freedom nor security". Now, this phrase has more nuances than it appears, because it refers to essential freedoms and talks of temporary security, that is, there are elements that need to be densified here. And that is the detailed, complex debate we have to do in 1. the Commission and for which the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group is available, in line with the tradition of protection of fundamental rights, but also to ensure that those who are the most serious threats to our community can have a quick response from the judicial authorities. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u113	To close the debate on behalf of the proposing party, the PSD has the floor Mr. Paulo Mota Pinto, who has the time to compete with him, plus the additional 2 minutes that the Rules provide. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the conclusion of this debate, which resulted from the PSD's positive agenda, I would like to say that the balance sheet we make is what it was worth using this power schedule to discuss this problem. If we are here today discussing and trying to find a solution to the problem of metadata is on the initiative of the PSD, which was the first party to present a project in this Assembly of the Republic and used a legislative agenda for this purpose, at a time when the government still constituted working groups. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u115	By the way, I mean that there is another aspect of the question of metadata, which has to do with its use by the information services for crime prevention and activities such as terrorism. This aspect requires a constitutional review that we do not discuss here today. But it was worth bringing this issue here. I also wanted to say that it would have been worth it, even if it was not, to hear the recognition, by the Socialist Party's parliamentary bench, that the project we presented solves most of the constitutional problems raised—which had already been said by the Prime Minister, passed the first moment of some confusion either by the Government or by the Socialist Party. It is clear that the debate is continuing and will always continue in case-law, indeed, it will never be stabilized, because adaptation is at stake, the application of the principle of proportionality to a matter involving restrictions on rights and, therefore, if we wait for that moment, we will never, never have a regime for the use of metadata. We think that we can discuss in the specialty the issue of the crime catalogue, other issues such as the transitional standard, in fact, we do not try to restrict the effects, we introduce the additional element that has already been deduced the accusation, but, whatever the case, these are aspects that can be discussed in the specialty. With regard to the content of the debate, in our view, it was confirmed here that contradiction, which I said, from the Arrival, which tears the garments wanting to force the Constitutional Court to limit the effects, but then it presents a project that removes the instruments to the police. It was also confirmed the inability of forces that did not present projects, such as the Liberal Initiative, which ended the debate to teach Parliament that there is a stage of discussion in the specialty. As for the government, we maintain the disagreement or at least the diagnosis of the inadequacy of its approach. There was no response to the criticism that there is here a diversion of purpose, a basis maintained for commercial purposes, and now it is not true that there is any duty of operators to maintain this data for six months. What is said by the law of essential public services is that the right to receive the price prescribes within six months, but after it is paid, invoices must not be maintained and the price may in fact be waived. And they don't even have to be involved with communications that generate billing. I noticed that the Minister did not answer the question of the criminal who only received calls. He referred to the law of cybercrime for geolocation, but this, as much as I remember, only refers to the geolocation ex post in each specific case, in order, and not preventively, so it is also insufficient. In addition, as I said, it seems to us that the deviation of a purpose, a mere remedy, a remedy is at stake here. However, we think it is conciliable with our approach. That is why, in the specialty, we are available to accept the Government's approach, complementing it with a mitigated preservation of the metadata regime, in particular by developing or providing for the possibility of selective conservation criteria for these data. These criteria are possible, according to the current state of case law, but we have to see how they are defined, according to objective and non-discriminatory criteria, as to certain places, as to certain people, accused, etc. We therefore hope that there will be openness to reach a broad consensus. We believe that this is a positive result of this debate and, repeat, it is a result that we believe is achieved on the initiative and proposal of the PSD. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u116	The joint debate, in general, of the Bill No 11 / XV / 1 is therefore closed. a ( GOV ) and Law Projects Nos 70 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), 79 / XV / 1. a ( CH) and 100 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which is why we say goodbye to the government. The second item on the agenda concerns 1. the Supplementary Budget of the Assembly of the Republic and no interventions are planned. We will therefore begin the vote on the Rules of Procedure, for what I ask the services to close, then, the registration period, at the time of all the Members. Members may register. We have a quorum for the vote, but we are still going to make the usual verification and, in this sense, I wonder if there has been any difficulty in registering by some Member. [[Pause.]] If there are no difficulties, then we shall proceed to the vote. We begin with the Vote Project No 72 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by the PSD ), regretting the death of Manuel Fernandes Thomaz, who will be read by Mrs Helga Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is of the following content: « The Social Democratic Party proposes to the Assembly of the Republic the approval of a vote of regret for the death of Prof. Manuel Fernandes Thomaz, which took place last March 18 of this year. Manuel Fernandes Thomaz, the fifth grandson of the homonymous parliamentman represented as the principal speaker in this chamber's eyeglasses, dedicated his life to the academy, having been a teacher at the Technical Higher Institute, at the University of Algarve and at the University of Aveiro. It is in this university that performs most of its brilliant academic career, having been the founder and first director of the Department of Physics. He was also vice-president of the University of Aveiro between 1980 and 1986. Manuel Fernandes was president of the Portuguese Society of Physics between 1990 and 1992, and contributed decisively to the development of the history of physics and science, focusing on his research activity at the end of his career in this area. Manuel Fernandes Thomaz also performed the role of the greatest national relevance in the development of the Portuguese scientific system. He was Vice-President of the National Scientific Research Institute, between 1988 and 1989, and State Secretary for Science and Technology in the XII Constitutional Government, between 1991 and 1995. He again held the same position in the 15th Constitutional Government, between 2002 and 2003. Many of the results of the current Portuguese scientific system are also due to it. Manuel Fernandes Thomaz has marked for its verticality and cordiality, for its depth of thought, for its capacity for dialogue and flexibility in the deal and for the creation of bridges with younger generations, essential qualities in the performance of its functions in an exemplary way and which will remember it in the various places where it passed. Thus, the Assembly, meeting in plenary session, evokes the memory of Manuel Fernandes Thomaz and presents to his family and to the University of Aveiro the most felt condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u118	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] I greet the relatives here present and express the condolences of all of us. We moved on to the Vote Project No 76 / XV / 1. a ( presented by CH) — Regret for the three fatal victims of the accident with a bus carrying pilgrims to the Sanctuary of Fatima. I call on the Secretary of the Bureau of Palmira Maciel to read out the draft vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is of the following content: « On the morning of the 21st of May, he left Guimarães, in the district of Braga, the bus with pilgrims coming from three fries of that council and had as destination the Sanctuary of Fatima. At 9 a.m. and 20 minutes of that day, in A1, in the Mealhada area, the tragic accident, which resulted in a spate and later hit an electric post, causing 3 deaths, 6 serious injuries, 5 critical injuries and 22 minor injuries. Among the fatal victims are Antonio Fernando Gomes de Araújo, the driver and owner of the 58-year-old bus, Alberto Leite Soares, 78-year-old and founder of the sculptors of Figueiredo, and Maria Emília Marques de Castro, 53-year-old. The Assembly of the Republic expresses its regret at the death of the victims and conveys the deepest condolences to its relatives and friends and to all members of the parish of Figueiredo. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u120	We shall proceed to the vote on this draft vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Following the Vote Project No 80 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by PS ) — Regret for the death of Raquel Seruca. I would ask the Secretary of the Lina Lopes Bureau to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is of the following content: « The professor and researcher Maria Raquel Campos Seruca, a world reference in the study of gastric cancer, died prematurely on May 30, at 59 years of age. Vice-Director of the Institute of Pathology and Molecular Immunology of the University of Porto ( IPATIMUP ), researcher of the Institute of Research and Innovation in Health (i3S) and Professor of the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Porto, Raquel Seruca was an unquestionable advocate and promoter of science in Portugal, contributing with her remarkable research work for significant advances in the study and treatment of gastric cancer. Natural of Porto, where he was born on June 9, 1962, he graduated and doctorate in medicine from the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Porto, in 1995, under the guidance of Professor António Sobrinho Simões. Between 1986 and 1988, she was still a scholarship at the Department of Human Genetics of the University of Groningen, in the Netherlands. Returned to Portugal, he started a postdoctoral in molecular genetics of stomach cancer in IPATIMUP, distinguishing himself nationally and internationally in the area of gastric cancer genetics, having been considered a world specialist in cancer cell invasion, particularly in gastric colon cancer. It contributed decisively so that IPATIMUP became one of the main European research centres, coordinating the Cancer Genetics Group and performing functions as a provider and vice president of the institute. Author of over 260 publications in the most prestigious scientific journals, Raquel Seruca has seen his world-renowned and award-winning merit throughout his career, with emphasis on the recognition of the Portuguese Society of Human Genetics, the Benjamin Castelman Award of USCAP ( United States and Canadian Academy of Pathology) in 2001 and 2012, the LabMED Prize, in 2002 and 2003, awarded by No Stomach for Cancer, a North American association that supports families with gastric cancer in 2015, and more recently the Inspiratory Women's Activa Award, in the Science category, in 2021. At the national level, she was also grateful for the degree of Grand Officer of the Order of Infante D. Henrique in 2009 and received the Medal of Merit, Grau Ouro, by the City Hall of Porto, in 2014. Enthralled by the city where he always lived, a woman of strong civic spirit, he incorporated in 2005 the list of the Socialist Party's vehementation to the City Hall of Porto, in which he would be his most frontal political act, a civic commitment that he also took on during his demanding passage by the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences. The dedication, competence, vitality and availability that has always put to the service of science in Portugal is reflected in its prestigious and profuse scientific legacy, which inspires a new generation of scientists in the area, so its death represents a loss that will take time to repair, lost only by the enormous legacy that everyone leaves. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Raquel Seruca and honours its unique inspiring journey for several generations of researchers, presenting to the family, friends and colleagues of the Institutes of Health Sciences IPATIMUP and i3S the most felt condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u122	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] I also greet the relatives of Raquel Seruca here present and express condolences on behalf of Parliament. Following the Vote Project No 81 / XV / 1. a ( presented by the PSD ), regretting the death of João Gomes Alves. I call on the Secretary of the Bureau of Maria da Luz Rosinha to read it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u123	Mr President, very late for everyone. The draft vote shall be as follows: "Portuguese society, and its democracy in particular, gain its vitality through men and women who actively contribute in their lives to make their community stronger, involving themselves in their decisions and common paths to follow. The individual contributions of citizens engaged in their community and their country were not just an arithmetic sum of efforts, but as a matrix and an example that brings fruit and shape to societies. We recall, as a tribute and recognition, Dr. João Gaspar de Sousa Gomes Alves. Distinct Vimaranese and Portuguese, died on May 22, 2022, whose journey of life was marked, in addition to the exceptional culture, elegance and intelligence that characterized it, by a different professional life as a lawyer and jurisconsult, as well as by a strong and continuous involvement with its community, in which Guimarães, where he was born and lived, was indelibly marked by his dedication to the causes and institutions of his land. The attachment to the causes of its community dates back to 25 April 1974, with participation in the Vimaranense Unit and its Enterprises Society, a courageous initiative of a group of Vimaranese, led by Fernando Alberto Ribeiro da Silva, who, claiming from the central power the investments that were due to the community, self-balancing itself for the realization of these investments, only on the basis of the contribution of their living forces. At the dawn of Portuguese democracy, João Gomes Alves joined the PPD / PSD, a party from which he was a local and regional leader, having chaired the Municipal Assembly of Guimarães, with the support of several political quadrants other than his. This was a mark of his personality: the achievement of consensus and recognition beyond his political area. The Volunteer Firefighters of Guimarães, the Trade and Industrial Association of Guimarães, the Social Center Our Lady of Carmo, the Brotherhood of São Nicolau or the Assembly of Guimarães are many of the institutions that served until the end of the generous days he lived. Reasons why, in recognition of this journey, the municipality of Guimarães assigns it to the Medal of Honor of the municipality, in 2018. We remember today, in the Portuguese Parliament, more than man, the example of a life. A life of those who were involved with the community, choosing not to be indifferent to their time of life. And this is the example that we have witnessed and that, through this simple vote of regret, we wish it to be fruitful. Meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its greatest grief to Dr. João Gomes Alves' family and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u124	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. We shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We moved on to the Vote Project No 82 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by the PAR ) — regretting the death of Mário Mesquita. To read the draft vote, you have the floor of Mrs.Madam Secretary of Table Lina Lopes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote is as follows: « He died last May 27, at the age of 72, Mário Mesquita, the reference figure of Portuguese journalism. Mário Mesquita was born in 1950, in Ponta Delgada, a circumstance that, according to some of those who were close to him, would mark his reserved temper and sense of humor. From early on he woke up for politics, actively engaging in democratic opposition to the dictatorial regime. In 1973, he helped to establish the Socialist Party, and in the first free elections in Portugal, in 1975, he was elected a Member of the Constituent Assembly, and he was also a Member of the PS, of the Assembly of the Republic, of the I legislature. Professionally, Mário Mesquita was noted in the area of social communication, which devoted much of his life, first as a journalist and then as a university professor. Even before 25 April, he was a journalist in the Republic. In the Diário de Noticias, he was deputy director and later director between 1978 and 1986. He directed the Diário de Lisboa between 1989 and 1990. Later, he would become the Provider of the Readers of the Newspaper, as well as a columnist in the Public and Newspaper. His contribution to journalism was also largely taught. Graduated in Social Communication by Universidade Católica de Louvaina, it was as a professor that Mário Mesquita formed several generations of university students, at the School of Social Communication, in Lisbon, at the Faculty of Social and Human Sciences of the University of Nova, or at the University of Coimbra, where he helped to establish the degree in journalism. Elected by the Assembly of the Republic for the Regulatory Council of the Regulatory Entity for Social Communication (ERC ), Mário Mesquita was, since 2017, Vice-President of this institution. The legacy of Mário Mesquita for journalism is reflected in the various awards that were awarded to him during his career. Similarly, the recognition of his civic and political activity is revealed, among other distinctions, in the Order of Infante D. Henrique with whom he was distinguished in 1981 by the President of the Republic of António Ramalho Eanes. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its deep regret at the death of Mário Mesquita, conveying to his family and friends the most deeply sorry condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u126	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the legislative part of the draft vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] I also greet the relatives of Mário Mesquita here present, conveying their condolences, and I invite the whole House to associate itself, in honor, with 1 minute silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Members, we follow the reading of the Draft Vote No 79 / XV / 1. a ( presented by the Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport and subscribed by a PSD Member ) — Congratulations on the award of the LeYa 2021 Prize to the Poet and Writer José Carlos Barros. To that end, you have the floor of Mr.Mr. Secretary of Bureau Palmira Maciel.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote is of the following content: « The poet and writer José Carlos Barros won the LeYa 2021 Prize with the work The Invisible People. The ‘work of language, the domain of a teluric orality to contrast with the richness of vocabulary and historical-social references’ of this novel, which transports us on a journey for several times in the recent history of Portugal, since the 40th century, took the jury of this prize, to which 732 originals competed, to announce, unanimously, José Carlos Barros as winner. The LeYa Prize is one of the main awards for novels unpublished in Portuguese. Established in order to encourage the production of works in Portuguese, it has already been attributed to several consecrated authors such as the Brazilians Itamar Vieira Júnior and Murilo Carvalho, the Mozambican João Paulo Borges Coelho and the Portugueses João Ricardo Pedro, Nuno Camarneiro, Gabriela Ruivo, Afonso Reis Cabral, António Tavares and João Pinto Coelho. José Carlos Barros, was born in Boticas, in 1963, and graduated in landscape architecture. While still young, he moved to Vila Nova de Cacela, in the Algarve, where he distinguished himself, throughout his career, in the pursuit of various technical and political activities, particularly as an author and Member of the Assembly of the Republic. However, literary creation has been your passion. His poetic work is vast and rich. He published several books of poetry, namely: A Useless Abstraction, All Shipwrecks, Theory of Forgetfulness, Small Depressions (with Otilia Monteiro Fernandes), The Laws of Population, The Use of Poisons, The Education of Children, Station — The poems of DN Young, 1984 - 1989, and Penelope Write to Ulisses. In 2003, José Carlos Barros stepped into the prose with the story The Day the Sea disappeared. The Pleasure and the Tédio was his first novel, followed by DUM Friend For Winter, with whom he was the finalist of the LeYa Prize in 2012. Winner of several literary awards, is to highlight the National Prize of Poetry Sebastião da Gama, which was awarded to him twice. José Carlos Barros has his poetic texts published in various languages. The Assembly of the Republic welcomes the award of this important prize to José Carlos Barros, which accentuates the recognition of its vast literary work and highlights its contribution to the enrichment of Portuguese literature. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u128	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of this draft vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We therefore welcome and wish our former colleague the best literary success. To read the Vote Project No 83 / XV / 1. a ( presented by PAR ) — Greetings by the centenary of Gonçalo Ribeiro Telles, has the floor of Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « On May 25, Gonçalo Ribeiro Telles would celebrate his one hundredth anniversary, an occasion to greet and evoke the memory of this striking figure of the 20th century Portuguese, in particular — but not only — in the area of landscape architecture. during its 98 years of life, Gonçalo Ribeiro Telles left his digital impression on the landscape of the city of Lisbon, which would certainly not be the same without its influence, privileged early the harmony of nature and the defense of the dignity of the human person, being pioneer in this line of ecological intervention in Portugal. The Lisbon Green Plan, and the ecological corridors, the Jardim-Promontoire of the Chapel of São Jerónimo, the remodeling of the Avenue of Freedom and the Upper of the Park Eduardo VII, or the Mata de Alvalade, constitute some of the examples of its important legacy. of its numerous works, stands out the emblematic Garden of the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation, which signed with Viana Barreto, for which they were distinguished with the prize Valmor of 1975. At the political level he was also an active citizen, who began as a candidate for the National Assembly for Independent Monarchs in the 1950s. In 1974, he founded the Monarchical People's Party and integrated the I, II and III Provisional Governments, as Assistant Secretary of State of the Environment, and the I Constitutional Government, led by Mário Soares, as Secretary of State of the same folder. In 1979, he joined the Democratic Alliance, alongside Francisco Sá Carneiro and Diogo Freitas do Amaral, having been elected Member of the Assembly of the Republic, to which he was re-elected in 1980 and 1983, and where he had the opportunity to work in the preparation of relevant legislation, such as the Basics of the Environment Act. Between 1981 and 1983, he joined the VIII Constitutional Government, led by Francisco Pinto Balsamão, as Minister of State and Quality of Life. Gonçalo Ribeiro Telles would return to the Assembly of the Republic, in 1985, as an independent member elected on the lists of the Socialist Party. In his civic concern, he also founded the Alfakinha Movement, for which he was elected, in 1985, the councillor of the City Council of Lisbon and in 1993 the Party of the Earth Movement. Gonçalo Ribeiro Telles contributed indelibly to the dealership, in the middle of the last century, of a discourse around landscape and a more balanced relationship between people and nature. It is also thanks to its influence that Portugal has today important soil protection instruments, such as the National Ecological Reserve and the National Agricultural Reserve. In 2013, he was distinguished by the Sir Geoffrey Jellicoe Prize, prestigious award of landscape architecture, being numerous the tributes he received in Portugal, such as the Great Cruz of the Military Order of Christ ( 1988 ), the Great Cruz of the Order of Freedom ( 1990 ), and more recently the Great Cruz of the Order of Children D. Henrique ( 2017 ). The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, recalls architect Gonçalo Ribeiro Telles, welcoming his memory and his example, on the date on which the centenary of his birth is celebrated. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u130	Mrs. Members, all parliamentary groups and single Members have expressed their intention to speak on this vote. So you have the floor, firstly, for 2 minutes, Mr Bruno Coimbra, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To mark the 100th anniversary of the birth of Gonçalo Ribeiro Telles is to celebrate his life, his work and his legacy. Gonçalo Ribeiro Telles was a visionary, a multifaceted man of restless and permanent intervention, a pioneer in the policies of the environment and the planning of the territory, a coherent and bold vision politician, focused on ecology, the nature and dignity of the human person. He was a Democratic defender of freedom and tolerance. As a landscape architect, internationally recognized, he marked with his trace the city of Lisbon, from the garden to the territory, in the work of several scales, of which are the remodeling of the Avenue of Liberty, the gardens of the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation and the Green Plan of Lisbon. As a teacher, he inspired a school of landscapers, agents of the continuous revolution of harmony with nature, which his master defended. As long-term political decision-maker and relevant functions, of which they stand out as State Assistant Secretary, State Secretary and, subsequently, Minister of State and Quality of Life, in the Government led by Pinto Balsamão, left a relevant legacy, of which are the basis of national environmental policy and spatial planning, the regimes of the National Ecological Reserve (REN) and the National Agricultural Reserve (RAN) and the National Parks, Reserves and Landscape Heritage Service. Gonçalo Ribeiro Telles was able to see the tree and the forest, to perceive the local issues and the specificities of each landscape and territory, but also to perceive the whole, the sum of the parts, intervening in an indelible way in society. He led lists of opposition to the old regime, he was founder of the Monarchical People's Party, one of the founders and leaders of the Democratic Alliance, next to Francisco Sá Carneiro and Diogo Freitas do Amaral, Member of the Assembly of the Republic, mayor of the Chamber of Lisbon and founder of the Party of Earth Movement. Their ideas, causes, initiatives and sensitivity motivated, mobilized and still mobilized generations. Proof of this is the existence of a petition, promoted by students of the 10. the year of a school in Portimão, which recently entered this assembly, proposing that the day of the birth of architect Gonçalo Ribeiro Telles become « National Day of the Gardens », stating, and I quote: « We owe Gonçalo Ribeiro Telles to have shown us that the cities and villages are more humane as green and sustainable as they are. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Greetings from PSD and PS Member Bruno Aragon.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u132	For one minute, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : There are figures in our society that have marked, through the civic and political journey. They are, in fact, suprapartmental, despite the path they have taken. Gonçalo Ribeiro Telles is one of these figures, a larger figure of the environment and ecology, which leaves us a legacy that we have to renew every day. Its vision for cities, for the countryside, is a deeply ecological vision, which combines concrete with green, which actually brings humanization, through nature, to cities. The parks and gardens, such as the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation, the Monsanto Green Corridor, the Mata de Alvalade in Lisbon, or the Mata dos Medos in Almada, are some of the same examples. But it is not only through his sketches that Gonçalo Ribeiro Telles made the change. It also did so from a legislative point of view, with agricultural and ecological reserves, as well as national plans of municipal directors and even the convincing opposition it made to the country's 'eucalyptization', with knowledge of the cause as no one else had. Gonçalo Ribeiro Telles must also be a co-author of the chapter of the Portuguese Constitution on the environment, which, at the time, determined, and I recall, "all have the right to an environment of human life, healthy and ecologically balanced, and the duty to defend". May that be the legacy that we can renew daily in our action in the Assembly of the Republic. [[Congrats from PS Bruno Aragon.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u134	Following is Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we mark the centenary of the birth of Gonçalo Ribeiro Telles in the Assembly of the Republic. Gonçalo Ribeiro Telles distinguishes itself by his intervention in the area of architecture, the planning of the territory and the environment. It contributed in a very significant way to living in harmony with nature. In the architectural plan, we want to highlight not only the work done, but also the great quality of its landscape projects, which are an example of the gardens of the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation, a work that marks a generation. In the planning of the territory and the environment, we highlight the creation of REN and RAN, the National Ecological Reserve and the National Agricultural Reserve. They are instruments for planning the territory, now in force, which are fundamental to planning and protection of areas of greater ecological and agricultural value. REN and RAN have taken on enormous importance for the protection of natural heritage and for the protection of the public interest. The protection and conservation of natural areas and agricultural soils is of great value in the present, but it is also of great importance to safeguard the interest of future generations. We also welcome Gonçalo Ribeiro Telles' intervention, when he drew attention to the dangers of intensive agriculture, its impacts on territory and biodiversity, and when he drew attention to the danger of monoculture in the forest, to the detriment of a mosaic forest. Regardless of its political course, today, here, we highlight its well-known and recognized journey, as a landscape architect, in the area of the environment and the planning of the territory. [[Congratulations from the PCP and PS deputy Bruno Aragon.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u136	Mr Rodrigo Saraiva, from the IL, followed by the use of the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u137	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Gonçalo Ribeiro Telles has been and will always be a major figure in the history of Portugal. The way and the time in which he married the individual and nature place him as a visionary and humanist. Its way of life has left several footprints, which owe us all pride: in architecture, whether public or private, especially in landscape architecture, as is natural; in politics, whether in the time of the fight against dictatorship, or the much which it has already built in democracy; in legislative power, in executive power and also in local power. He also left an academic footprint, either as a disciple or as a teacher. Therefore, for his legacy and for his memory, he deserves our eternal respect and admiration. [[Congratulations from the IL and the PS Member Bruno Aragon.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u138	The next item is Mr Pedro Frazão, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The party honours the memory of the architect Gonçalo Ribeiro Telles, a conservative man who was the largest Portuguese environmentalist of the 20th century, often referred to as the « father » of ecology in Portugal. He died at the age of 98 and will always be remembered by the conservative Portuguese right: remembered by being an environmentalist when no one else was profiled in this field. He was the advocate of reconciliation between the rural world and the city, without its imposition on farmers, and with absolute respect for the good practices and the Portuguese cultural traditions, namely the tradition of the Tauromachy, being master's right cousin David Ribeiro Telles, who often accompanied in the races in which the riders of the Ribeiro Telles family worked. Gonçalo Ribeiro Telles began his public intervention as a member of the Agrarian and Catholic Rural Youth, a youth structure linked to the Portuguese Catholic Action. He founded the Movement of Independent Monarchs, to which the Movement of Popular Monarchs would follow. As a member of the Assembly of the Republic, he had responsibilities in the proposals of the Environmental Basics Act, the Hunting Act and the Environmental Impact Act. This bench is deeply identified with the conservative and conservative spirit of the nature of the architect Gonçalo Ribeiro Telles, a right-wing conservative man, who even deprived some of the members of our bench in particular. Therefore, we will always honor the memory of the architect Gonçalo Ribeiro Telles, with whom we have largely identified ourselves. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u140	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In Parliament, where, by nature, I would like to speak, for this intervention, to highlight another gift, the gift of the eye. Gonçalo Ribeiro Telles was one of those who knew that it is possible to educate the eye and, by educating the look, to see in the landscape, in the world around us, the things that most people do not see. And thus, by bringing this gift to politics, it opened up its potential. As a Minister of Quality of Life, or when he emphasized that it was possible to make landscape architecture, he opened up other worlds in our reality. It was an idiosyncratic, a word that looks expensive, but that simply wants to mention a person who had a mixture of peculiar temperament. Monárquico, who gave a lot to the Republic, municipalist, environmentalist, conservative, but also progressive, minister of right-wing governments, but also desired by Jorge Sampaio, to lead a left-wing candidature to the City Hall of Lisbon, will remember - here it is to remember that you do not need to have a conventional course in politics to leave a mark in our country. If we can pay tribute to it, it is to know how to educate our eyes and that of others to value people, knowledge and the landscape of our country, to preserve and transform: preserve what has to be transformed and transform what has to be preserved and thus improve our country and our world. [[Congrats from PS Bruno Aragon.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u142	Mr Hugo Pires of the PS is still speaking. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At a time when the centenary of Gonçalo Ribeiro Telles is celebrated, it is never too much to remember that Gonçalo Ribeiro Telles was a man in front of his time. He was a Democrat, was an environmentalist, was a progressive, was a humanist and, above all, placed sustainability in Portuguese political vocabulary. The preservation of biodiversity and nature was the main objective of its political action, being co-author and author of several flagship projects, especially in the city of Lisbon, as is the case of Eduardo VII Park or the garden of Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation. I believe that, at this point in which the 100 years of birth are celebrated, the greatest tribute we can pay to the architect Gonçalo Ribeiro Telles is the work that Portugal has been developing in recent years. We were the first country worldwide to undertake the commitment to carbon neutrality, to bet on forests and biodiversity, in resilient forests, in forests that promote the Portuguese mosaic and in forests that are also a carbon sink. The word "decarbonisation" is at the heart of environmental policies and climate action. We promote public transport, more and better gardens in cities and a better air to breathe in cities, through the promotion, construction and encouragement of gardens and green areas in cities. All this is to pay tribute to the entire work of Gonçalo Ribeiro Telles, who, contrary to what was said, was a great democrat, a great progressive and a great environmentalist. Only in this way will we be able to preserve your memory. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u144	The last recorded speaker is Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block welcomes Gonçalo Ribeiro Telles' memory on the 100th anniversary of his birth. We do so, because we recognize its role in front of its time, as has already been mentioned here, and the capacity it had to, being a man ahead of its time, pull the entire Portuguese society to follow it in thinking of a vision to cities, which included people, but also nature, in thinking of a country that also had to be a promoter of the environmental and ecological future and in thinking of a policy that, in addition to democracy, should guard the legacy left to the new generations, in particular the fundamental legacy in times of climate chaos, that is, the guarantee of a planet that would survive for future generations. From that point of view, with this wealth, with this vision, with the brand, legislative, or citizen, that Gonçalo Ribeiro Telles left, we accompany this greeting and we are next to those who intend to preserve his memory. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u146	Mrs. Members, at the end of the speeches, we shall proceed to the vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote No 83 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PS, PS, CH, IL, BE, PAN and L ) — Greetings by the centenary of Gonçalo Ribeiro Telles. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Let us now vote for draft resolution No 73 / XV / 1. a ( PAR) — Composition of the Standing Committee. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will now vote for Deliberation Project No. 4 / XV / 1. a ( PAR ) — Extension of the normal period of operation of the Assembly of the Republic. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now proceed to the vote of Parliamentary Inquiry No 1 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Possible parliamentary inquiry into the work of the Portuguese State in establishing partnerships with Russian citizens'associations in the reception and integration of Ukrainian citizens in Portugal. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of CH, IL and PAN and abstentions from PSD, PCP, BE and L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u147	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u148	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u149	Mr President, we want to make an oral vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u150	They will do so at the end of the voting period, which is what is determined. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u151	Mr President, if I may, my speech has to do with the remaining part of the vote script. I don't know if there's any more questions on this matter...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u152	I believe that the regimentists agree that the declaration of vote will be made at the end of the vote. You then have the floor, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u153	Mr President, we have a set of requests for discharge from the committee without a vote which, if approved, will actually consume a very large part of the vote script. Since, in the parliamentary arena, these requirements are a prerogative of the proposer, or, in the case of the Government, of the party that supports him, and there is a general acceptance of these requests, my suggestion, if accepted by the Bureau and the rest of the boards, is that all the requests for discharge to the committee without a vote be voted on together, because then we can go far ahead in our script.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u154	Mr President, on my part there is no objection and I see that there is no objection from any parliamentary group either. Therefore, we shall proceed to the vote in accordance with the terms suggested by Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, so we will vote in a bloc all the demands of the committee, without a vote, of bills or bills whose proponents so claim. We shall then vote together on the following requirements: Submitted by the PS, with the consent of the Government, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Economic Affairs, Public Works, Planning and Housing, without voting for 60 days of the Bill No 6 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Electronic Communications Act and transposes Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 1972 establishing the European Code of Electronic Communications; Submitted by the NAP, applying for discharge to the Committee on Economics, Public Works, Planning and Housing, without voting for 15 days of Bill No 89 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Strengthens the rights of end-users of electronic communications services; Submitted by the L, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Education and Science, without a 30-day vote of Bill No 90 / XV / 1. a (L) — Acknowledges the duty of the institutions to initiate a competitive procedure for the functions performed by the doctors when the contract is concluded; Submitted by the PS, with the consent of the Government, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Economic Affairs, Public Works, Planning and Housing, without voting for 60 days of the Bill No 8 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — transposes Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 1, which aims to confer on the competition authorities of the Member States competence to enforce the law more effectively and to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market; Submitted by the PSD, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without a 30-day vote of Bill No 70 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 32 / 2008 of 17 July, which transposes into the domestic legal order Directive No 2006 / 24 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 March on the conservation of data generated or processed in the context of the provision of publicly available electronic communications services or public communications networks, in accordance with the Constitutional Court judgment No 268 / 2022 ; Submitted by the CH, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without a 60-day vote of Bill No 79 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Amend Law No 32 / 2008 of 17 July in order to harmonize it with the constitutional requirements in force; Submitted by the PCP, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without a 30-day vote of Bill No 100 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Alter to Law No 32 / 2008 of 17 July on the conservation of data generated or processed in the context of the provision of electronic communications services; It is submitted by the PS, with the consent of the Government, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without a 30-day vote of the Bill No 11 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Regulates access to metadata relating to electronic communications for criminal investigation purposes. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, according to the outcome of this vote, the corresponding initiatives will not be voted on. Let us now, in general, vote on Law No 3 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Alter the Code of Criminal Procedure and Law No 5 / 2002 of 11 January 2002. [[The vote was taken by votes to PS, PS, CH, IL and PAN and with abstentions from the CFP, BE and L.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 86 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Corrects the legislation implementing the National Anti-Corruption Strategy 2020 - 2024 and deepens the guarantees for the protection of complainants. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, PCP and BE were rejected, votes against the CH, PAN and L and abstention from the IL.]] Let us now vote, also in general, Bill No. 94 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Establishment of the status of the defendant's collaborator and aggravating the penalties applicable to the crimes of corruption provided for in the Criminal Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CFP, BE and L were rejected, votes against the CH and abstentions against the IL and the NAP.]] The vote on draft resolution No 53 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends the adoption of measures for the dynamisation of the National Scientific and Technological System, combating precariousness and underfinancing. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE, NAP and L and the abstention from the CH.]] Let's now vote for the 1st. the Supplementary Budget of the Assembly of the Republic for 2022. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] At the request of the IL, we shall proceed to the vote on points of draft resolution No 46 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Recommends that the Government in the context of the European Union defend the end of imports of gas from Russia. So we started by voting on point 1 of the draft resolution. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, CH, IL, BE, PAN and L, votes against the CFP and the PS abstention.]] Let us now vote on point 2. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CFP were rejected, votes against the CH, IL, BE, PAN and L and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u155	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u156	Ask for the floor to what effect, Mrs. Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u157	Mr President, to announce that the Socialist Party will deliver a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u158	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u159	Mr President, it is also to inform us that we will deliver a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u160	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Let us now vote for draft resolution No 12 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government comply fully with Directive 2002 / 49 / EC, the European Parliament and the Council of 25 June 2002 on environmental noise assessment and management. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 43 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Implement an environment noise prevention policy. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No 6 / XV / 1. a ( L) — urging national authorities to participate in the international effort to investigate, accuse, condemn and punish all war crimes in Ukraine, following the invasion launched on 24 February, under the highest responsibility of Vladimir Putin, President of the Russian Federation. [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PS, the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE, the PAN and the L and votes against the CFP.]] The Bureau shall indicate that the CFP will present a declaration of vote. We will vote for draft resolution No 17 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government review the specific objectives of PEPAC. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH, IL and PCP were rejected and votes against BE, PAN and L.]] Let us now vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on the Environment and Energy on draft resolution No 7 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Forecast in the National Reform Programme - 2022 of the adaptation of the National Water Plan to climate change, as a measure to combat drought. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the CFP, BE, PAN and L and with abstentions from PS, PSD, CH and IL.]] It is also important to vote on two opinions from the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, which the Secretary-General of the Bureau of the Maria da Luz Rosinha will give us an account. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u161	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, the request of the Central Court of Criminal Instruction of Lisbon — TCIC — Judge 9, Inquiry No 7213 / 21.0T9LSB, decided to issue an opinion to authorize the lifting of parliamentary immunity of Mr André Ventura ( CH ) within the framework of those cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u162	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is in the vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Please proceed, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u163	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, in accordance with the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Braga — Local Criminal Court of Braga — Judge 4, Case No 31 / 21.7GCBRG, decided to issue an opinion to authorize the lifting of parliamentary immunity of Members Filipe Melo ( CH ), Rui Paulo Sousa ( CH ) and André Ventura ( CH ), within the framework of the said cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u164	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I now give the floor to Mr André Ventura for a statement of vote on Parliamentary Inquiry No 1 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — possible parliamentary inquiry into the work of the Portuguese State in establishing partnerships with associations of Russian citizens in the reception and integration of Ukrainian citizens in Portugal, for which it has two minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The lead of the constitution of the possible parliamentary inquiry committee to the work of the Portuguese State in establishing partnerships with Russian citizens'associations in the reception and integration of Ukrainian citizens in Portugal, proposed by the CH, should embarrass this Parliament, because of what resulted from the hearings that were made, of those that were demanded by this Parliament, was that Antonio Costa was successively protected by the Socialist Party, prevented from coming to this House even after being asked by another party, with the argument that the Prime Minister does not come to a commission and, above all, that the Prime Minister can hide himself in the secret of the State. This Parliament was therefore responsible for investigating and rejecting this function, had an obligation to launch the only instrument with powers equivalent to those of the judicial authorities and refused to do so. This, even after hearings, the information and security officers had said, and I quote, that «the information circulated to those who had to circulate». Even there, Parliament refused to investigate, refuse to continue and refuse to ascertain the truth about such an important case as it is here. And even parties that said, a week earlier, that an inquiry committee was needed, come a month later, say that this is not the stage and that they will wait to hear the Prime Minister on 22 June here in Parliament. It is this zigzag of fear that Parliament has to lay hands on the only instrument that it has to investigate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u166	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u167	... in particular on the Prime Minister, who cannot be understood. But today, Mr President, it has become more serious. Today, one weekly reported that it was not only information related to Setúbal, but that several state agencies asked for help and provided help in this case. It's here,... [[At this moment, the speaker displayed a sheet with news from the Express Week.]] ...for everyone to see, what has been reported today, with various state bodies, under the custody of the Prime Minister, involved in this case. This is what they want to prevent, saying that it is for the week or the other, or the next month, or when they are the authors of the proposal. This is the spirit of those who don't want to investigate...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u168	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u169	...the case involving a Prime Minister, which involves a government and which should be clarified by this Parliament to the end. It is very sad, but it was the vote that Parliament gave us today and that unfortunately we have to accept. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u170	We are now passing on to the record of the honourable Members. Members who participated in this session by remote means. Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u171	Mr. President and Mr. Members, I would like to inform you that the representatives of Alexandre Quintanilla, Clarisse Campos, Cláudia Santos, Pedro Cegonho, Rui Lage, Sofia Andrade and Susana Amador, of the PS, and Duarte Pacheco, Germana Rocha and Isura Morais, of the Social Democratic Party, participated by means of a remote session.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-03.u172	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the next plenary session will take place on Wednesday and has a agenda with several points. First, together, the Bills Nos 53 / XV / 1 will be discussed. a ( PSD ) — Establishs the Central Administrative Court Centre, making the tenth amendment to the Statute of the Administrative and Fiscal Tribunals, as annexed to Law No 13 / 2002 of 19 February 2002, to the tenth amendment to the Law of the Organisation of the Judiciary System, as approved by Law No 62 / 2013 of 26 August, and to the fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 325 / 2003 of 29 December defining the headquarters, organization and jurisdiction of the administrative and fiscal courts, implementing its Statute and 87 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Takes measures to optimize the performance of the higher courts of the administrative and fiscal jurisdiction by amending the Statute of the Administrative and Tax Tribunals. The second point is the joint discussion of Lein.os projects 7 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Increases the value for the special pension supplement of former combatants, 52 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Consecrates the vital complement of pension and the minimum pension of dignity for former combatants and 91 / XV / 1. a (BE) — establishes the vital complement of pension and the minimum pension of dignity to former combatants. The third point is the joint debate of Bill 76 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Express consecration of the crime of exposure of minor domestic violence (fifty-sixth amendment to the Criminal Code), 82 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Making declarations for future memory mandatory at the request of the victim or the Public Ministry, 85 / XV / 1. a (L) — expressly includes exposure, in the examples of what constitute psychic ill-treatment, in the context of domestic violence crime; defines exposure, in the case of children and young people, as sufficient for their characterization as victims and enshrines the frequency of specific parental education programmes in the list of accessory penalties, 92 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Creation of the crime of exposure of minor domestic violence (fifty-fifth amendment to the Penal Code), 96 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Exemption from attempting to reconcile the divorce proceedings without the consent of the other spouse in cases of conviction for domestic violence crime ( Amendment to the Civil Code and the Civil Procedure Code ) and 97 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Ensures the appointment of employers to victims who are particularly vulnerable ( Amendment to the Victim Statute and Law No 34 / 2004 of 29 July 2004 amending the access to law and courts regime ). The fourth point is the joint discussion of Bill Nos 48 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Extraordinary linkage of all teachers with three or more years of service up to 2023, 80 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Revocation of the current access system to 5. a is 7. the escalations of the teaching career, beginning with the amendment of the Status of the Career of Children Educators and Teachers of Basic and Secondary Education, 81 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Amendment to the Statute of the Career of Children and Teachers of Basic and Secondary Education, approved by Decree-Law No 139 -A / 90 of 28 April, and 93 / XV / 1. a (BE) — Extraordinary programme for the linkage of teachers. In the fifth and last point we will have the joint debate of Bills Nos 71 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Change specific activities associated with compensation in family health units in order to eliminate gender discrimination in clinical practice and 88 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — eliminates gender discrimination in the compensation criteria associated with the specific activities of doctors. Thank you very much, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. Good weekend to all and until the next session. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 7 minutes.]]
