ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We have quorum and all parliamentary groups are present, so we will start the session. [[It was 15 hours and 12 minutes.]] First of all, I want to apologize to the ladies and gentlemen. Members for the slight but real delay with which this session begins. So let's start our work. I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the gallery doors to the public and Mr. Secretary of Bureau Diogo Leon please read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. I refer, first, to the Draft Deliberation No. 9 / XV / 1. a ( PAR). Bill Nos 378 / XV / 1 also entered. a ( PCP ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 379 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 380 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission, 381 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 382 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 383 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission, 384 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission, 385 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 386 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 387 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 388 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 389 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 391 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 13. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission, 392 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 393 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 394 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 12. the Commission, in connection with 2. the Commission, 396 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission, and 397 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which drops to 1. the Commission. Resolution Projects Nos 305 / XV / 1 have also been entered. a ( L ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 306 / XV / 1. a ( L), 307 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 308 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 309 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 310 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which drops to 1. the Commission, and 312 / XV / 1. a ( PAR). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I take advantage, if you will allow me, to greet the honourable Member, and our Vice-President, Edite Estrela, saying, on behalf of all, that it is a pleasure to have her back. [[Congratulations from the PS and PSD Members.]] Let us then start our agenda with the political statements. The first political declaration belongs to the Liberal Initiative...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u4	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u5	Mrs Paula Cardoso, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u6	Mr President, I would like to make an appeal to the Bureau to present the appeal I announced at the end of the last meeting of the Conference of Leaders, which ended minutes ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u7	Does the honourable Member intend to make an oral appeal?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u8	Exactly, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u9	If there is no objection on the part of any parliamentary group, there will be no objection on my part either. [[Pause.]] With the leave of the Liberal Initiative, I shall then give the floor to Mrs Paula Cardoso to appeal on behalf of the PSD for a decision by the President of the Assembly of the Republic. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. It concluded the meeting of the Conference of Leaders at which it was decided not to admit the PSD project to refer to the admission or not of euthanasia in Portugal. It turns out that what we saw at this meeting of the Leaders Conference was that, at the moment, the PS runs the trailer of the Arrival,... [[PSD applause.]] [[PS and CH rice.]] ... having made it clear, by the positions assumed, that both of them reveal fear of two situations: fear that parliamentary democracy should be done here, that any parliamentary group should be allowed to take the initiatives that understand appropriate, and fear of the people, of listening in referendum.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u12	I think the gravity of what happened is very high. The PSD project is not sick of the situations that have been mentioned so as not to be admitted. It is a new project, with a different question, calling on all Portuguese to pronounce themselves on the admissibility of euthanasia in Portugal or not.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u14	Therefore, the resource that we present to this Plenary is to put the possibility of being admitted to the PSD project because we understand that we are being victims of an attack on parliamentary democracy and popular democracy, when we do not want to hear the people pronounce themselves on this matter. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u15	Madam Member, the PSD Parliamentary Group will then be in favour of presenting the appeal itself—now, hoping that the decision not to allow the project to be admitted by the President of the Parliament of the Republic will be notified before now, and will be addressed to the President of the Assembly of the Republic, since they will resort to a decision of mine, which clearly was not the case now, so that later I can follow the process, in which, if I recall, the appeal will be considered by 1. The Commission will then come here for a vote in plenary. Mr Ventura is asking for the floor because he also wants to appeal?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u16	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u17	So it's for an interrogation at the table?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u18	Yes, I want to defend the honor of the bench, Mr. President. [[PS laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u19	It is a rule of law, therefore, I will give the floor to Mr. André Ventura to defend the honor of the bench and then I will give it to Mrs. Paula Cardoso if she wishes to give satisfaction. Mr. André Ventura, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. The arrival would like to make a point clear, after hearing Mrs Paula Cardoso say that it was the interest of the Arrival, in conjunction with the Socialist Party, to block this referendum. Mr. Member, the party that brought the proposal for a referendum to this House...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u21	It was us!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u22	...it wasn't the PSD, it was the arrive in June. And at that time your leader said that the PSD would not commit itself to any referendum initiative, that the PSD would give its Members the freedom to vote on this referendum initiative. So come seven months later try to turn around on the right and say, "Alas, we are here now! The proposal is yours rather than ours in those children's games of « the pen is mine and not yours ». Excuse me, Mrs. Deputy, the arrival was the first party to put in this House the hypothesis of a referendum on euthanasia. It was your leader and your leadership who did not commit to a referendum on euthanasia...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u23	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u24	...and gave them freedom of vote when they could have committed themselves to the referendum. It was the arrive, not the PSD, that went to the Presidency of the Republic to request a referendum on euthanasia,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u25	Exactly! There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u26	... request the veto of the President of the Republic to this project, while his leader said he had doubts and he did not know whether he was going to the left or to the right. We have no doubt: this project is for plumbar, it is for veto! We have no doubt! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Madam Member, this is the last interest of the Arrival, and therefore, contrary to your bench, we said that if this project were to be voted on, we would vote for you. That's the difference between us. When our project went to vote, you didn't commit to it, but we were here saying: "It's the best thing for the country, we'll be next to you! Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u27	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u28	And what did the PSD do? He came, on Wednesday afternoon, to the farthest of the law, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, to put forward a proposal that he knows can not pass, only on Friday: « You see? The arrive and the PS are together on this proposal. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mrs. Member, it is very bad for the PSD to do this,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u30	... when what I should have done from the beginning was to say: "Let's hear the Portuguese. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u31	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u32	Mr. President, I'm really going to finish. In fact, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the current tenant of the Palace of Belém, who can veto this proposal, who can exercise a judiciary of influence for a referendum, be militant not of the Arrival, but of the PSD. Take your responsibilities! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u33	In order to give satisfaction, you have the floor of Mrs Paula Cardoso.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u34	Mr. President, thank you very much. If you will allow me, I would just like to clarify my colleague from the end by telling him that the question that came to you had nothing to do with euthanasia. The arrival asked a question, in June, to be referred to by the Portuguese people, questioning only if it agreed with the content of articles 134. o is 135. the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u35	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u36	The question was: "Do you agree that the death of a person assisted by medicine at his request or the help of suicide should continue to be punished by criminal law? Do not keep on seeking. ” [[CH protests.]] The question that PSD asks is radically different. The question posed by the PSD is the result of the exhaustive work that has been done in this House in order to obtain a law that allows decriminalization in certain circumstances and which sets aside what is provided for in this law. To answer that question does not mean that it does not answer only the question that the PSD asks nor can it be inferred that anyone who answers that yes does not answer the other or who answers that it does not answer only the other.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u37	All right! [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u38	Therefore, Mr President, if you would like me to tell you, your question had neither feet nor heads.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u39	You voted in favour!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u40	That is why you are now accusing the PSD of being sellege, but perhaps the aselhice started there with the Arrival. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u41	I am very sorry, but I have already had to make a very broad interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, in the part where it says that the President communicates to the House not to admit bills, to allow this appeal to be brought in the manner in which it was put, since, in practice, what happens is that there will be a decision of mine, which will be communicated to the House, and then in the light of Article 126. the Rules of Procedure, anyone who intends to make the fa-CL appeal shall make it in writing, in order to go to the respective committee, etc. So this little moment is over. So let's go to the political statements. Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto has the floor to give the political statement on behalf of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2023, the State expects to raise EUR 500 million in fines and other penalties. It is about 50 € for each Portuguese, including children. Today, fines are part of the lives of people and businesses, who often receive them without being aware of any illegality. The proliferation of useless laws and bureaucracy, as well as the incentives given to some bodies to live from hunting to fines, has generated a climate of abuse and persecution. I'll tell you some of the real cases that have come to me in the last few weeks. One plumber installed a new toilet, doing the client's favor to get rid of the old one. On his return home, he was caught by an operation stop, without the toilet transport guide he was going to dump. It was fined in 600 € — more than it earns in a week's work. One person passed through some porticoes and no longer remembered, the notice of payment was for an old address. Although the original portage is less than 5 €, the person ended up forced to pay more than 1000 € for the delay—more than he earns in a month of work. The owner of a small business issued an invoice with the phone number in the identification. The number started with 93, of course it is a mobile network, but because it is not written on the invoice that that number started with 93 is a mobile network, this business is threatened by a fine up to 3000 € — more than the business owner receives in a month. A green receipt worker had no activity during a quarter, did not submit the VAT declaration (value added tax) because he thought he did not need, because he had not been active, he was obliged to pay a fine of 125 € — more than he normally paid tax. One person received a fine of 250 €, on a Monday, on the way to the inspection centre, to make an inspection whose deadline had ended on Friday before. He paid a week's salary for a late one useful day at the inspection. Finally, a small store put the word « balances » in the sample instead of « promotions ». For the customer, it is exactly the same, for the state, no, and a fine of 1000 € was passed — more than the shop assistant wins. I could continue around here, I got dozens of real stories like this. No one with good sense looks at these cases and considers this fair or proportional, but these cases happen every day to several thousand people. All this is unfair, disproportionate and abusive. We liberals are not against a regulatory state, but this is not a regulatory state, it is a "modifier" state. This isn't regulation, it's extortion. [[Applause from the IL.]] The Portuguese State has a set of bureaucracy and absurd rules, which should disappear as quickly as possible. Even among the rules that are justified, there are absolutely disproportionate fines to the infringement and whose values can only have been defined by those who do not have the slightest idea of what the average wage is in Portugal. The complaints are expensive and morbid, making people lose more time and money. Businesses, which the State cannot collect in taxes, end up looking for fines, creating permanent instability in the life of small businesses. The dispersion of laws and regulations is so great and absurd that no citizen can follow. Therefore, even the most fulfilling citizen has a relationship of fear and mistrust, in relation to the entities that control and this undermines the authority of the State. A fulfilling citizen should not be afraid to be stopped by a PSP agent ( Public Security Police ) or to be monitored by ASAE ( Food and Economic Security Authority ), but has. There is no fulfilling citizen who is not afraid to be stopped in a PSP operation. There is no fulfilling citizen who does not receive a financial or ASAE inspection. This fear does not result from being aware that you are doing something illegal, but from the fear that you are committing illegality without knowing what they are doing. This breaks the relationship of trust between the citizen and the State, between the citizen and the forces of authority. A conscientious citizen must look at an agent of authority and see in him someone who protects him, defends him, not a source of threat. I will end by talking about licenses, months, sometimes years, that are lost to obtaining licenses in this country and how meaningless rules increase the costs of homes. Among other enormities we have in the RGEU (General Regulation on Urban Building), the State does not allow a house to be built with a shower base, instead of a bathtub and still obliges all houses to have at least one bidet. It's true, the RGEU requires every house in this country, to get a license, to have a bidet! I accept that everyone will have their opinion on the utility of the bide, but the reality is that a person who prefers to use the shower to achieve the same purpose of the bide is still obliged to install a bide, otherwise he does not have the license for the house. Mrs. Members, if the tax burden, the bureaucracys, the fines are not enough to prove the point that we have the most state in people's lives, remember this: the Portuguese State even has a word to say about how the Portuguese choose to wash their intimate parts. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[CH's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u43	The honourable Member has four requests for clarification, to which he has informed the Bureau, he will respond in sets of two. In order to formulate the first request for clarification, Mrs Fatima Fonseca of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto, the Socialist Party would naturally be the only one to challenge the importance of simplifying the relationship between the State and the people who serve. In fact, one of the marks of the successive governments of the Socialist Party over the years has been precisely this solid path in terms of simplification and administrative modernization, increasingly associated with the digitization of processes. It is a path that has, in fact, made Portugal internationally recognized, being the Simplex program, in fact, known internationally, since it was launched in 2006. An emblematic brand, whose success sometimes makes us forget that many of the things that, today, people our daily lives, began to be and are still simple measures. This programme, increasingly supported by the use of digital, has always underlying—I repeat, always underlying—a simplified look at the processes, the elimination of redundancy, the agility of responses. This simplification necessarily has a regulatory component, but also an administrative component, which also needs to be activated, in order for the Public Administration to move all in a simpler way, continuously, identifying absurd procedures and unnecessary administrative charges, which the Government or the Public Administration itself must eliminate. In fact, if we look at the Revoga+ Programme, for example, we see that in recent years some 4500 diplomas have already been revoked containing unnecessary or obsolete provisions. Therefore, the Socialist Party, viewing modernization and administrative simplification as a continuous process, believes that it is important to continue training public administration workers so that they can actively identify simplification needs with citizens and companies. This is how, throughout the history of the Simplex, the governments of the Socialist Party have proceeded, involving all stakeholders in the identification of needs for administrative and regulatory simplification. This is how more than 1500 simplex measurements have been identified. Therefore, Mr President, the question I am asking you is how the Liberal Initiative proposes to involve the different stakeholders in the simplification process. This is because the media will necessarily condition the results and is obviously crucial to our society,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u45	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u46	... for our economy—and with this I conclude, Mr President—that all citizens have the assurance that simplification measures are those that serve all people, all businesses and the needs of the country, in a state that is not minimal or maximum, which is exactly the necessary state. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u47	I remember all the ladies. Members that requests for clarification have a maximum of 2 minutes and that we have a long journey ahead of us. The second request for clarification will be made by Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, the Liberal Initiative today brings to the debate an interesting topic. While acknowledging that, on the same subject, he introduces several others who took us further, let me try to focus on what he said on two issues, which seem very important to us. The first is the question of sanctions: a counterordination, without great philosophical conceptions, intends to be punishment of someone for a breach or, if they wish, an attempt to force someone to comply with what is established. It is true — I agree with you and the PSD accompanies this reasoning — that there are numerous penalties in this country, counter-ordinations and fines that are manifestly exaggerated, so people receive them with a huge sense of injustice. As if it were not enough, this sense of injustice joins another, which is to penalize the carrier of such bad news, which is the public agent, the public official. So this ends up causing two consequences, one of them is a huge feeling of impotence, injustice and revolt in the face of excessive penalization. You have given here examples that are screaming and that of the tolls is a scandal, I repeat, it is a scandal and it is our fault, of all -- we have to do something about it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u49	Of all, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u50	The second consequence is that there is then a prejudice on the part of the citizens, on the part of the administrative officer, on the authority officer, on whom such unjust manifestation of punishment is prevented. It is true, Mr President, that we accompany your concern. Then there are a number of other issues that have brought here which, perhaps, are not for today, particularly those of conceptions relating to housing—if I may, we leave bides for another day, which is also a funny topic. Mr President, the question I put to you is whether you do not follow the PSD in the concern that we have of our State, the same State, constantly questioning us and demanding us behaviors, proofs, documents, facts and data that the State itself has in its power.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u51	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u52	It would therefore be the obligation of the State to find a solution with the public authorities rather than constantly disturbing the citizen, asking for what the State already has. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u53	To reply, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the questions and the fact that we generally agree. We follow your concerns and thank you for accompanying us. There must be an effort of everyone, because there is an ideological part of this, but there is a part that is not ideological. All of us in this House would like to reduce bureaucracy and all those unnecessary things that people have to pass through. We have accompanied this concern and at present we do not realize why a citizen has to go to state agency A to deliver a document to the State body B, something that is completely ridiculous, or even worse, certain cases in which he has to go to state body A to request a document to deliver to State body A — I have also received some examples of these. There is a path that has been made—and there I have to give some credit to the Simplex and to the path that it has made—but the problem is that, by each measure, it appears five 'complicatedx'. That has been the mark of the last few years. There is indeed a very valuable programme, which is the Simplex programme, but, at the same time as a set of simplification measures, legislation is created which introduces complications. The legislation I've just talked about, in which people are fined, small businesses, up to 3000 €, because they don't record that the number started by 9 is a mobile network, i.e., because they don't put it textually, it's something recent, the first fines have started in recent months. There is something absurd about this that was introduced already after all the Simplex. In other words, in addition to having the care to do the Simplex, we must be careful, in this House, not to add « complicatedex» and I think that this should be a general effort of all political forces. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u55	We are now going to the second series of requests for clarification, which will be opened by Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Guimarães Pinto, the problem of discussing serious issues with approaches, sometimes less serious is that instead of solving them, it ends up creating new problems and exacerbating those that exist, as well as injustices. When we talk about less serious approaches, we're talking about a well-known tactic, which is to put everything in the same bag, as if it were all the same thing. Mr President, the idea we want to emphasise is that we must debate the system of counter-ordinations, and the tax system itself, the system of economic counter-ordinations, the information of work and the practices that have to do with working relationships, from caricature, from the bidet, certainly serves for three things: firstly, to ensure the media impact on the first day, on the day itself, that is what is happening; secondly, to ensure that serious, structured, constructive debate of real problems will stop the bide; and thirdly, to ensure that, in the midst of this discussion so picturesque and so loaded, there will be no lack of opportunity to, on behalf of the answer, or of the alleged response, to the problems of the young, to extend the red carpet to the great. Here's the problem, sir. One thing is the automatic renewal of the driving licence or the resolution, finally, of that problem that was excused for having been created, when PS and PSD agreed to make the finances the tax collector of the weakness of the SCUT motorway concessionaires (without cost to the user) on the tolls...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u57	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u58	And these are the problems that concern people's daily lives. Another thing, quite different, is the obligations that large companies, for example, have to deal with their workers or with consumers. You will certainly agree that the fine continues to require, for example, living conditions in general. These fines themselves consider necessary, therefore, they remain there. This means that for this situation there are rules, legal rights and values that need to be defended, it is necessary to ensure that the responsible entities, such as the Act (Working Conditions Authority) and the ESAE, must, of course, take up a presence on the ground, but not unfair, not a presence that discriminates, essentially, small and micro-enterprises. Where you offend the law itself, the law must be just and supervision must be done. Then, will you agree, certainly—or not agree? — with the proposal that the CFP has always submitted that there must be a differentiation between the situations of small and micro-enterprises in relation to the power of economic groups. This is because this label and this advertising which the IL generally presents to combat bureaucracy and fine hunting can, in fact, even run the risk of being fined for misleading advertising, and there well it can cry out for the reduction of fines. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u59	You now have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mr Rui Tavares, of the Free.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u60	Mr. President, the Liberal Initiative has declared war to be absurd. Who doesn't agree? Everyone is against absurdity, everyone wants things to be simpler, except when they're a little bit more complicated and they need to be a little more complicated. Once, a collaborator of General De Gaulle said to him: «Death to stupidity». The General's response was: « Wide project! » It is indeed a vast project of the Liberal Initiative, but there are two ways to look at it: one is step by step, seeing where things are, in fact, absurd and changing these — is the liberal way. Then there is another way that, apparently not, is more dangerous than what looks like the first, and that I will explain with an illustration. The Liberal Initiative ripped the clothes off here a while ago, because it wasn't anything like Liz Truss. It was a scandal we said it was like Liz Truss. However, in this speech today, it presents to us exactly the speech that Boris Johnson made for years about the European Union. It was only against the absurds, it was only against the curved cucumbers, the bananas had to have a proper caliber, and it just said that it was necessary to leave the European Union as a whole,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u61	Jesus!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u62	... that it was necessary to make a fire with the regulations, having also ended with the sewers throwing jets directly to the British beaches, which is what is happening now. There are two ways to solve the problems: one is to be serious and therefore to look for what is wrong and to work, which is what we are doing here; the other is to throw out the baby with the bath water or shoot on his foot, thinking he's shooting himself in the bidet. The reason why we have safety, health, hygiene chips, which are above, is that today we may not need, but tomorrow we may need, I may not need, but my neighbor may need. When the chips are below, that means that the builders are going to do less, and those who need can simply turn away from finding what they need, and the state must think about everyone. Therefore, the request for clarification is very simple: why is it that in these situations the Liberal Initiative can choose the reformist gradualism of liberal giants, John Stuart Mill and Hume, who likes to quote, always choose the anti-regulation populism of Farage and Boris Johnson? [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u63	He's out of time! It's always the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u64	May I remind you of the honourable Members. Only Members who only have one minute in these requests for clarification. Finally, with regard to requests for clarification, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor of the Block of the Left, which has meanwhile entered.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u65	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when I heard you talk about the price of housing, I began by thinking that I would be talking about the savagery of the market, where neither the State nor the plain, but you did not talk about it. Then I thought that you were going to talk about the astronomical prices to buy a house, where the state has no intervention, but you did not talk about it either. Then I thought that the honourable Member was going to talk about the rents of the house, about the evictions, about the renewals of the contract, which leave people without a house to live in or the small merchants without a place to do their business. In fact, the State does not have anything to do with it either, it does not have any kind of intervention, but the honourable Member has not spoken about it either. The only concern of the honourable Member is the abuse of state intervention in bidets, showers and bathrooms. And this is the problem which Mr Deputies said increases the price of building housing in Portugal. This priority which the Liberal Initiative here chooses today, making this number to which we assist, well reflects the political difficulties of the Liberal Initiative. It is that, with so many serious problems that we live in Portugal, poverty, lack of wages, difficult living, as a supermarket, difficulty in access to housing, the Liberal Initiative can only think about how the taxes on the richest are reduced, how it ends with rates and fines, as if they were all the same. However, they are not all the same, and that is why it is impossible to have a very serious debate when mixed, in the same intervention, bidets and tolls. If we're talking about tolls, I want to tell you that I think you're absolutely right and that I don't think it's plausible and hard to understand why the PS and PSD have delivered to the Tax Authority the collection of tolls and fines of a private dealer.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u66	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u67	It is that this is not State abuse, that is private to use the State to abuse people who need tolls, and this due to Leonine PPP contracts (public-private partnerships), a model that the Liberal Initiative so much likes. So, honourable Member, if you want to discuss fines and abuses, let's do that. So we couldn't. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u68	To reply, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u69	Mr President, with regard to what Mr PCP's colleague said, that the cases are picturesque and cartoons, I mean that they are picturesque and cartoons, but there are. The law is that it's picturesque and cartoon, it's not us. We want to put an end to these picturesque and caricata laws, such as the « bide law ». He spoke here in small and micro-enterprises, but these are the main ones affected by the « finer » state, because large companies have the ability to have legal support to avoid these fines. More than that, it is in small and micro-enterprises that these fines most have effect, because for those who have an income of 1000 € or 2000 € per month, catch with a fine of 500 €, 600 €, 800 € is something that affects you the month, that affects your business. There are businesses that are destroyed by these fines, by absolutely irrelevant things, like having a sticker out of the place. Therefore, our concern is this and not primarily with large companies. With regard to Mr Freeman, have I been mistaken or have I heard here a bold defense of the obligation of the bide?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u70	There are those who need it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u71	It seemed to me that this statement was about defending something that I do not see anywhere else in the European Union. Yes, Mrs. Mariana Mortágua, the RGEU has effects on the cost of housing. Some of the obligations that are there, which come from the New State and which make absolutely no sense today, have effects on construction costs, which, in turn, are reflected in housing prices.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u72	Do you think? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u73	What about speculation? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u74	But I also tell you, we have the ability to think about various things at the same time. The fact that we speak today about something that affects many people, which is the number of fines they receive for irrelevant matters, does not mean that we have not already spoken in this House, and often in the matter of housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u75	It's just speculation that he never talks!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u76	We have different solutions to the problem of housing, but what we cannot accuse ourselves of is not talking about housing, it is not presenting our solutions to housing. But if you think that this problem of fines does not affect people, which is irrelevant and that the only issue that we should have every day, in this House, is that of housing and income, then ask people, ask people who are on green receipts if they do not affect the amount of fines they receive, ask the owners of small businesses if they do not affect the fines they receive. It affects, affects the lives of them, and more: affects their ability to pay the income and the service of the house. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u77	We are now turning to the second political declaration. To do this, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the European Union, Mr Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the next plenary session, this House will vote on one of the most difficult, divisive, ethical and moral issues of our time. He will vote for the decriminalization of assisted drug death and will open the way in our society to suicide assisted by the State. The issue is difficult, divisive and causes the greatest divisions and anxiety in Portuguese, but nothing justifies or forgives the barred form, the inorganic form, the speedy form, the illegal form which Parliament has conducted this process. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u79	Hearings that should have been made were not; professional orders that should have been heard were not, as they were said to have been heard, when what was at issue was another text, another proposal and another meaning.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u80	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u81	Such important orders, such as the Order of Doctors or the Order of Nurses, are left out, on a subject that touches the life and death and the final decision of each one, is something that history will never understand and that we certainly cannot understand either. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u82	The way this morning, this Parliament, solely with the votes against the arrival and the PCP, voted for the decriminalization of the drug-assisted death, shows well that this House, starting from Friday, has become more concerned with death than with life, and that should never be the goal of a Parliament. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This Parliament was set up in elections that took place in January this year. In January this year, the Portuguese people were called to the polls. in these votes, the Portuguese chose to give the absolute majority to the Socialist Party and the opposition to the other parties, but it is curious that the main promoter of this project, it is curious that the main authors of this project, who are sitting here today, in this House, did not have the courage to put in their electoral program that would, after being elected, decriminalize euthanasia.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u83	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u84	This shows how they are afraid of the Portuguese people and of being called to hear the Portuguese people. [[Congrats from the CH.]] All the major parties could have led euthanasia to the Portuguese vote and to the Portuguese choice, but only the extreme left decided to do so. All the others were silent about what they were defending, to turn, then, to the closed door, to approve something that is completely contrary to the values that most Portuguese defend.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u85	Enough is missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My deep conviction — deep conviction — is that it is God who must give and take life. It is my deep conviction that it is God who fulfills the fundamental decisions of human life. But that's my conviction.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u87	Conviction, yours? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u88	It's not yours. It'll be some, not all of them, but it's mine. And as mine is that of millions of Portuguese who, from north to south, in autonomous regions, deeply believe that only God has the last word about human life. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Many, like me, believe that it is so and others believe that it is not so and have other ways and other ways and other process of choice. When this happens in a highly divided country, then there is only one honorable solution to the democracy in which we live: it is not to close up on these four walls and to give a voice to the Portuguese people. Mr. President, none of us have a mandate to decriminalize the death of assisted medicine.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u89	We've got, we've got!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u90	None of us have the legitimacy, nor was it given by the vote the legitimacy of deciding when to live and when to die. This is not a decision which is chosen in a ballot box or deposited in a ballot box. That is a fundamental decision of the human being. It is a fundamental decision that the people, as a people, have to make and therefore we call again here on this House, and before the vote on Friday takes place, we can agree to hold a referendum on the Portuguese people so that they are called to decide whether or not they want the drug-assisted death. It is not wanting to escape democracy that solves the problems, it is giving the people a voice, without fear, deciding what to decide. What we are doing today, what we are going to do on Friday is run away from the Portuguese people and, my friends, Parliament should never escape from the Portuguese people,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u91	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u92	... must go to meet the Portuguese people. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, after Friday, and when this law comes into force, machines will be turned off, grandparents will be... [[What a shame!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u93	As I said, after Friday, machines will be switched off, elderly will be killed and many will be killed throughout the country, under any conditions, will enter the final curve of life with the hand of the State. Many will choose death and death as the flag of this country, as it is very few in the world. It will be a fundamental choice that Portugal will make. Some understand that we are on the right track; others understand that we are on a path that will not return and perhaps that is why we should remember cases such as those in the Netherlands and Belgium, in which we start talking about the euthanasia of minors and euthanasia for economic reasons. We have no doubt: the door that we are going to open, or that we can open on Friday, will lead us to a black hole of death with which Parliament cannot and should not compact. I would like everyone to know that the precedent we will open on Friday is that many — especially the older, the weaker and the most unprotected — can feel knocking at your door very soon, without anyone being here to defend them.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u94	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u95	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u96	And that is the rhythm and the final challenge: a Parliament must know when to stop its work. The sliding ramp of this project is too large; the risks we run with it are enormous and threaten the entire Portuguese population. The cases we see in Europe and the rest of the world do not reassure us and open the door to a moral and ethical disaster of the Portuguese population.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u97	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u98	I shall end by leaving the challenge to hear the people and a challenge to the President of the Republic so that this law does not enter into force. But I would also like to leave, Mr President, before the God I believe in and before the Portuguese people we represent, the solemn and political promise that, in the 2026 elections, the first project of the Arrival will be to reverse euthanasia. [[Ch's applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u99	Mr President, you have three requests for clarification. I assume you answer in block?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u100	Mr President, I will respond first to two and then to one.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u101	The first request for clarification is from Mrs Paula Cardoso of the PSD, who has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr André Ventura, even less than half an hour ago the Arrival has just spoken in favour of the non-acceptability of the PSD project to refer to euthanasia.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u103	Because it's illegal!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u104	in a marriage that we've long realized—and that's going to have rubble in the middle! -, PS and the Enough... [[PS and CH rice.]] ... follow by the hands given in the troupe and the blockade to the consultation of the people on this sensitive subject. [[CH protests.]] And by not allowing parliamentary groups to present their own initiatives they show some fear. What fear is this?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u105	That's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u106	What fear is this, Mr. Member, of letting parliamentary democracy work? What fear is this of listening to the Portuguese people?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u107	Where were they in June? Oh, my God! They abstained!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u108	Are the PS and the rest of us afraid of democracy? Let the people speak, let this House and its parliamentary groups work and present their own initiatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u109	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u110	Don't be here in a «look at what I say, but don't look at what I do», because what you say is one thing and what you do is another. You'd rather arrive play the PS game? He preferred, and thus removed the possibility of listening to the people, in secretarial games. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u111	To request clarification, you now have the floor of Mrs Inês Sousa Real of the PAN. You have one minute, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u112	Mr President, Mr. André Ventura, you come here as if you were announcing the apocalypse... [[CH protests.]] ...and your speech is dangerous by two orders of reason. On the one hand, with regard to assisted drug death, it is important that people know that no one is creating sliding ramps. We are creating a rigorous, humanist process, which effectively aims to allow those in a situation of severe suffering and irreversible suffering to use this mechanism. This is important because, in addition to the stories that come to us from these people who suffer from these irreversible diseases, there are also stories from their relatives. God is not here called, sir! [[Yeah, yeah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u113	We are talking about personal self-determination, because if God were to be called here would not allow many other atrocious sufferings that happen through this world outside. But it is also dangerous for another order of reason. It is that the same political force that comes here to promise worlds and funds and that will reverse this legislative initiative is the political force that has just argued that the opposition should not have the right to present legislative initiatives — regardless of whether we agree with them or not — that may in any way have been presented by other political forces at the same legislative session.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u114	It's the law!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u115	And how is it that the honourable Member, who so often boasts to be the third political force of the opposition,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u116	No, no, the opposition is the first!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u117	... are you here to boycott the rights of the opposition itself? Therefore, be consistent, Mr, because either we are serious opposition and debate matters seriously or we do not debate. In the midst of such a sensitive topic as euthanasia comes to create more mechanisms and to ask for a referendum, I ask you how you will do that.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u118	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u119	How are you gonna ask for that postponement? One thing is right, it is the third time this House of the Republic is debating this legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u120	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u121	I really am concluding, Mr President. This is perhaps the legislative process that most legislatures have gone through — three, in particular — which has made more hearings. [[CH protests.]] The honourable Member said recently that we are not mandated, but we are. The NAP has registered in its electoral programme drug-assisted death. We told what we were about, we have a mandate and that is worth as much as anyone else, Mr. We are all equal in our duties and in our rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u122	There can't be bullies, but they can kill people!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u123	Don't be a populist!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u124	To reply, Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u125	Mr President, I shall begin by thanking Mrs Inês de Sousa Real. I also thank Mrs Paula Cardoso. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, the PAN, in fact, has this point in the electoral programme, but it does not hurt me what I will tell you: the PAN has a Member in this House. And, therefore, it was certainly not the NAP — and therefore we did not attribute this responsibility to it — that created, developed and approved this law. Whoever approved it has a name, called the Socialist Party, who hid this problem from its electoral programme. So, Mrs. Member, don't be so careful that you think when I go to the gallery to talk about majority and programs, I'm talking about the NAP. I have the greatest respect for the NAP, which I believe is a party — well, I will not make considerations... [[CH's laughs.]] ... — that it has its causes, but we weren't talking about the NAP, as it is obvious. Mrs. Deputy, you didn't want to take anyone's right of opposition. It is that there is something called law — the organic law of referenda. [[Protests by the MP of the Inês PAN of Sousa Real.]] I think the honourable Member has never read the organic law of referendums,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u126	You have to read. You have to learn.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u127	... but read that it says that initiatives cannot be repeated at the same legislative session. And, therefore, what the honourable Member is saying here is: 'The law is broken', because of what the NAP wants. Now, it is up to us, above all, to defend the law and not to break the law. What the law says is that the referendum initiative cannot be proposed again in the same legislative session. That's what's in the law. Don't stop being curious, Mrs. Member, that you're so worried that this is going forward. It shows only one thing: for the honourable Member the life of bees is more important than the life of people. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Protests from MP of PAN Inês Sousa Real.]] And that's very incomprehensible. Mrs Paula Cardoso, let's go back to the same debate. I'm sorry that we have to come back, but I have to remind you that it wasn't your party leader, and yes the leader of this bench and this party, that I, by chance, am not the PSD leader, was the leader of the Arrival who called a referendum in June. And the PSD leader — either this or the previous one — said he would not compromise with the referendum. O Mrs. Member, at that time, six months or seven...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u128	That wasn't the question!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u129	Mr Deputy, what question? Let's be serious about this. It is that today there was a vote in the morning. What was the meaning of PSD’s vote in the face of the decriminalization of euthanasia? Oh, my God! They abstained! So don't come here and say you want a referendum! You allowed this law to pass, because you abstained. And now they're trying to make the Portuguese don't know, with the machine of a referendum on top. But the truth is that today — which was the day of the teats, of how it is voted — the PSD looked back and said "let's abstain, see if it's all right". But it won't be all right, because the country will know they abstained. The country will know that they voted alongside the PS, the Bloc, the Free PAN and the Liberal Initiative for euthanasia to enter into force in Portugal. There were only two parties who voted against, it was the Arrival and it was the Portuguese Communist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u130	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u131	Therefore, the PSD can now try to "gold the pill" as you wish. In fact, Mrs. Member, let's assume this, the PSD did this intelligently, to hide the obvious, that is, it was the PSD that allowed the PS to take euthanasia into force in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u132	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u133	And Luís Montenegro wanted to come, at the last hour, to say that he even has an alternative project, which is a referendum, knowing that we could not discuss it now and knowing very well that the law was already in the final phase of approval.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u134	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u135	But when we discussed this in June, the PSD did not compromise. So, what are we staying on? Who's turning his back on the voters? Mr. Member, it's not enough that you're saying one thing and doing another. Tell your voters there in Vila Real, in Bragança, in Madeira, in the Azores, and everywhere, that they are in favour of euthanasia, that I would like to see how the PSD voters will respond to that. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u136	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u137	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u138	Mr. President, it is to defend the honor of the bench. With regard to the question of the vote, I would like to explain what has happened.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u139	Madam Member, if you consider that the honor of your bench has been offended, please use the right of defence, but explaining in what way it has been offended.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u140	Mr President, I believe that Members of the House were present at this morning's meeting and also at the committee's vote. Surely they have heard the explanation given and the statement of vote made concerning the abstention of the PSD. The PSD, as a rule, in these matters of conscience, gives its Members freedom of vote. [[But they abstained!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u141	We justified our abstention by saying that we are eight Members in 1. the Commission and that eight Members are not representative. I made that statement and said that everyone could vote as they understood in the Commission, but we understood that eight Members were not representative of the 77 Members who are here. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u142	Therefore, we have decided to abstain from giving freedom to our colleagues who want to vote against the vote, to those who want to abstain from the vote and to those who want to vote in favour. To be true and serious, your colleagues who were at 1. The Commission should have told it that, in addition to this vote, there was this declaration of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u143	I don't know if Mr. André Ventura wants to give satisfaction?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u144	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u145	So please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u146	Mr. President, this one had never heard in plenary:...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u147	For God's sake! ... as it is a moral theme and the PSD has this tradition, in the Commission they can say one thing and here do another. [[No, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u148	Madam Member, I am sorry, this is the truth: if we go to the top of today's vote, there is "abstention of the PSD" and that is what counts. Now the statement of vote? Oh, my God! You can say whatever you want in the vote statement. For the future it is that the PSD abstained when the vast majority of the bench voted against. And now, Mrs Deputies has said a little while ago that the question of arriving had neither feet nor heads, but more than 70 Members of the House voted in favour. So isn't it a little strange that they vote in favour of things without feet or heads? Oh, my God! I would perhaps like you to enter a little bit into some internal harmonisation, so that we don't always walk into this. It just looks like there's no right or two, there's right here in this bench and then there's some kind of virtual right, which is what you imagine exists, but there's no. So more than 70 Members voted in favour of a proposal that has no feet or heads? Is that what you think your bench did? Let's be serious, Mrs. Member, and we'll assume. It was the first party to want a referendum. His leader at the time and still today — because at the time he was already this — did not want to compromise, he was afraid. I understand. In politics, sometimes we have to take a risk. PSD didn't want to risk it. Mrs. Member, try to get into the carriage when she's getting to the destination is not to buy the ticket from the trip and I think it would be good to buy the ticket from the trip. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u149	You now have the floor, for a request for clarification on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today, the final text which decries death and assisted medicine has been approved in the specialty. Today, a step has been taken in the direction of a more democratic and humanist society. Today, one more step has been taken to a society in which ideologies are not confused with fundamental rights and in which individual freedom is valued. We must have the aspiration and courage to evolve. In the 21st century, the State cannot continue to impose life, when that life only represents the suffering of an innocent person. The State is not watching for the right to life. If we do not take this step, we will be condemning all those who are condemned to unto untold and unqualified suffering, against their individual freedom. I'd like to share some passages from a letter sent by Ricardo.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u151	Any questions?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u152	I quote: "In this battle, now begun, the cause was lost. My father's tumor has progressed to the brain stem. Gradually, the information stopped reaching the body. First, I watched the body start getting paralyzed. Walking with difficulty and loss of balance moved to a wheelchair. A wheelchair went to a bed. He lost the ability to control basic functions, such as faeces and urine, to hold in a fork, then stop talking, swallow or cough to avoid suffocating in his own saliva. in the first phase, he was still aware of everything, lucid, and his cognitive functions also began to be affected. But I don't, nor will I ever, be sure of the extent. I stopped getting to know how my father felt, thought or needed. Initially, there were still some moans. Then it stopped happening. Just one look that often looked for me. He died at home, with his children next to him, after weeks without eating food or water, totally paralyzed, with less than 40 kg than he had a year before, without leaving a word, a farewell. I keep only final sighs, in the midst of a lost gaze in emptiness, a conformed despair, perhaps comforted — I hope — by our affection and words, to finally end your suffering. Your suffering is over, but not ours. The pain of these memories will accompany-CL to me for the rest of my life. My family was subjected to unexplained pain and distress, having to watch, powerless, all this slow to define a loved one. They're pain that doesn't heal. In the name of what? With what justification? I look at my father's last portrait smiling and feel like it's all I can take to try to handle a shadow. I had to comply with the disgust of seeing go away without being able to give him a dignified end, without pain, beside whom he loved. I'll have to learn to live with these marks, but so many others may not have to. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not say that this is an easy subject, because it is not. I don't know what my decision would be if I were in this situation, but I know that I cannot prevent anyone from having the freedom to do so. Love is also letting go. The right to life cannot be transformed into an obligation to live. How can the arrival be insensitive to the history of all the Richards in this country? [[Applause from the IL.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u153	To reply, Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u154	Mr President, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz, I thank you for this. The Liberal Initiative says that it wants a more democratic society and the honourable Member has mentioned this in her speech, but it is curious how in this more democratic society it does not understand or integrates the idea of a referendum on such a matter. If it's so democratic, if they're so liberal, then let's hear people. Let's hear what the Portuguese have to say about this. in a matter which, as is recognized by all, is moral and ethical, what is the fear of hearing the Portuguese? Let's hear them! Didn't we hear about abortion? Now I hear people say this: "Well, they don't refer to constitutional rights or fundamental rights. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[False!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u155	But didn't we refer to abortion? [[PCP and BE protests.]] What, then, is the problem of referencing euthanasia in our legal order? Are you afraid of that? I don't get it very well. Madam Member, what you have read is highly sensitive and certainly affects all of us. That is why I began by saying, in my speech, that the way in which anyone wrote this testimony or who transcribed it sees suffering is different from the way I see suffering, due to my religious convictions, of how the honourable Member sees, how the PCP, the Left Block, the PS and the PSD — all! - Let's see. But that is why this is a question on which it may be more democratic to listen to the Portuguese than to give reason to their vision, to their other vision or to our vision.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u156	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u157	Our perspective is clear: euthanasia should not be legalized. But that's our perspective. So we want the referendum to hear the Portuguese on this matter. In fact, the Liberal Initiative voted in favour of the referendum at the beginning. Only this year did he vote against. In the first vote we had, he voted in favour — and well, because it is to listen to the Portuguese in a fundamental matter. That's what we want. Madam Member, no one here wants to force anyone to live a different canon. Portugal is a free society and we are all proud of it. As other democratically unquestionable countries have had referendums on this and other fundamental rights issues, we will not be afraid to hear the Portuguese. What's the fear? One begins to understand what the fear of the Liberal Initiative is. It is that the Liberal Initiative knows that it likes to say right, but it knows very well that its electorate will probably not understand that the Liberal Initiative has the same position as the Left Block, the Socialist Party, the PAN and the Free Party. [[Protests by IL Member João Cotrim Figueiredo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u158	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u159	I will finish, Mr. President. Therefore, the problem of the Liberal Initiative to go to the referendum is to know that, by going to the referendum, its electorate is distributed by the PS, the PCP, the Left Block and the PAN. There's nothing to be afraid of. You will argue with those you have to argue with, because our conviction is firm and secure.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u160	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u161	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u162	Mrs John Paul II said that a real State does not kill, a real State is taking care of. And that's what we usually like to do. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u163	We now move on to the third political declaration. To take the floor on behalf of the PSD, Mr Rui Cristina has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u164	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the last 27 years, 20 have the mark of the governance of the Socialist Party. The PS has been in government for seven years. Therefore, you have no excuses or alibis to justify the chaos in which the National Health Service is currently located. Let's go to the governance numbers of the Socialist Party : 1, 4 million Portuguese without a family doctor, plus 400 000 than when the PS arrived at the government — that party that promised to give a family doctor to all Portuguese in 2017. Emergency services are engulfing, with patients waiting for 11 and 14 hours, many of them abandoned and piled up in monkeys, in corridors, when not on the ground, hospitals. There are endless rows of people, many of them old, early in the morning, at the door of health centres to see if they can get a simple consultation. There are hospitals that, every week, are forced to close emergencies, due to lack of health professionals, thus leaving thousands of people with no response and no access to health care. Some pregnant women are forced to travel hundreds of miles to receive medical assistance. More and more hospitals in SNS (National Health Service), from north to south of the country, live chaotic situations, with exhausted professionals, collapsed services and desperate patients. It is so in the hospitals of Santa Maria, Faro, Penafiel, Évora, Amateur-Sintra, Almada, Setúbal, Barreiro-Montijo, Portimão, Loures and S. Francisco Xavier, among many others. With the governance of the PS, today we have an SNS with waiting times for months, and even years, for consultations and surgeries. In Guarda, patients have to wait four years for a cardiology consultation. In Portimão, you are waiting for three years for an ophthalmology consultation. In Évora, you have to wait a year for a urology consultation. With PS governance today, we have an SNS in which many patients do not have access to treatments and exams and it is too late when they already do. With the governance of the PS, today we have an SNS with a debt exceeding EUR 2, 3 million, more EUR 1000 million than when the PS comes to power. This is the sad portrait of the National Health Service, defining and without giving access to health care to those who need it most. [[PSD applause.]] The chaos in which SNS is found is the result of years of bad public policies and is the result of lack of investment. Year after year, investments are recorded in the State budget that are never executed. This year was no exception. Until October, only EUR 140 million had been executed, although EUR 589 million was planned for this year. That is, in the first ten months of this year of 2022, they executed only 23, 8 % of what they promised. In view of this, what do most people do? The PS refuses to assume the failure of seven years of bad decisions in the field of health—decisions that are responsible for bringing us here. But worse, in addition to being incapable of taking the mistakes themselves, they are throwing the blame on the PSD governments or on the pandemic, and the former Minister had the distinct capacity to hold Prime Minister Cavaco Silva's governments accountable for the drama that is being carried out today in health units.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u165	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u166	Still days ago, Mr. João Torres, PS Under-Secretary-General, accused the PSD of being against the SNS. You need to have can for size discharge, in so few words! It is a lie, as proved by Bill No. 261, submitted by the PSD Parliamentary Group in 1979 and which had as first subscriber Francisco Sá Carneiro, in which it proposed the creation of a mixed and inclusive National Health Service. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u167	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u168	It is a waste, when we know that the PSD had governmental responsibilities between 1980 and 1995, in the first 15 years of existence and construction of the National Health Service. And, moreover, no one has ever done so much in Portugal by the private sector of health such as the Socialist Party and the Prime Minister, Antonio Costa, because today almost 5 million Portuguese people with health insurance. [[PSD applause.]] The dismantling of the SNS was no longer enough, which has been done in the last seven years, and the latest attempt of political interference in the Health Regulatory Entity is still being joined by an independent, exempt and committed body only to the interests of the users. Mr. Minister wants to appoint for this entity a recognized friend of the current SNS Executive Director, politicizing another regulatory entity. And, not satisfied with that, the Socialist Party today brought the current President of this entity to Parliament. It's the compressor roll working! Finally, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Party has failed. The National Health Service needs urgent care and needs a new strategy. The PSD defends today—as it has defended 43 years ago—an SNS that articulates the public sector with the private and social sectors, rejecting the statization and putting people first. The Portuguese will certainly be able to transform their despair into the force of an alternative to the current socialist mismanagement. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u169	The honourable Member has six requests for clarification. Do you intend to answer in blocks of three?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u170	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u171	For the first request for clarification, Mr João Dias, from the CFP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u172	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rui Cristina, I would like to thank you for the topic you have brought us today, the National Health Service, but also at the same time regret that, having 6 minutes of intervention, you have spoken of the National Health Service without speaking a word to health professionals. Not a word addressed to health professionals, they are the fundamental and decisive element for the public response of the National Health Service! However, Mr President, you have spoken a lot, but much about the private sector and the disease business. On that point, the honourable Member was comfortable. In fact, he talks so much about the chaos, degradation and collapse of the National Health Service to simply help the private business. When I see the PSD talking about the National Health Service as Mr. Deputies did, well, these tears, Mr. Deputies, come up to you. Are you here to defend the National Health Service and its interests? You're here to talk about defending the disease business. Mr. Deputies, the state to which the National Health Service has arrived is clear that it has the brand of PS governance, but it also has the brand of PSD and CDS governance, particularly in what it has to do with primary health care. The honourable Member has not spoken today, but will speak of certainty, that they want to open the door to the private through the family health unit of model C. Or, this is precisely the one that has created the disease business in primary health care in the National Health Service. And you are always knocking on that key, on the private key in primary health care and also in closing beds. Mr. Deputy, over the past 20 years, more than 4000 beds have been closed. Do you know how many they opened in private? More than 3,000! And that is why, at the winter station today, we are having difficulties, because emergency services cannot drain the patients who have for the boarding services. It is due to lack of response in primary health care that we have people congesting emergency services! There are no health professionals properly valued! Have you forgotten when you sent health care professionals to emigrate or when you increased their hourly load without correspondingly increasing their salary? It was a PSD hand that completely disrespected health professionals. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u173	For a request for clarification on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mrs Joana Cordeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rui Cristina, I would like to thank you for your political statement here, because in fact it is never too much to remember the grave state in which our SNS is located, thanks to politics—or rather, to the lack of it—of the Socialist Party. As the Liberal Initiative has repeatedly said, the largest ever budget for health continues to not serve to solve problems and, worse, all proposals that could help are plummeted. And who's getting more harmed? All those who have no alternative to this SNS. Mr Rui Cristina, the cases, houses and jokes of these socialist governments take place and, with this absolute majority, they get worse. And this in the context of health, obviously, only makes the whole scenario worse. The SNS is in SOS: the emergency services, when they are not closed, burst through the seams; the health professionals are demotivated, resign and leave the SNS; we have 1, 4 million people without a family doctor; the waiting lists are unacceptable. Anyway, I could be here all afternoon and the problems weren't over. The Liberal Initiative, as you know, has already put forward a number of proposals to solve some of these problems and many of them are about giving more freedom of choice to users about how and where they want to be treated, whether in the SNS, whether in the social sector or in the private sector. And, as you also know, these proposals have been systematically plunged by the Socialist Party and throughout the radical left, by pure ideological prejudice. What I ask you is whether or not the PSD considers it essential to ensure that there is a way of assigning a family doctor to all users, even outside the SNS, and whether or not the PSD considers that access to specialist consultations and surgeries could be duly contracted outside the SNS, obviously for it to happen within clinically acceptable times. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u175	For a request for clarification, Mr. Pedro Frazão, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rui Cristina, I thank you very much for bringing this issue to the debate on health and the SNS, because in fact it seems that the health ministers of recent times are really enjoying the Portuguese. Former Minister Marta Feared, while pregnant women and babies were dying in hospitals, she was on vacation and had to be the Prime Minister to call her, to break her, not to miss her responsibilities and come to speak to the Portuguese. And the current Minister of Health, while hospitals are a mess and the emergencies close, is home making jam and writing on Facebook that takes four hours to make a white jam. But we're playing with who, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God! The government must be called to responsibility, because in hospitals in Portugal at the moment we have medical teams in resignation, pregnant to die, children without pediatric emergencies to which they may resort; chaos in emergencies and the INEM (National Institute of Medical Emergency) in pre-ruture. Yesterday, in Setúbal, a 64-year-old person who was waiting for an ambulance died, and the union reported that it was already the third case with these contours this year. There are 1, 4 million Portuguese without a family doctor and, as regards the board of directors of the EPE (enterprise public authorities ), some have already ceased their duties and others are being dismissed, and no one knows what is going on in these boards of directors. Furthermore, a CEO (executive chief officer), Dr. Fernando Araújo, who recently took possession, came to say in an interview that he was not well aware of his competences, but, by the way, the Minister came to say, in fact, that he has competences, that he will decide who is going to close maternity, but after a week, it is already the Minister who will decide which maternity is going to close. Mr Rui Cristina, I do not know whether you had access to the OECD report ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) which came out two days ago on the state of health in Portugal. It is that this report which the OECD released two days ago is very serious! First of all, Mr President, I would like to know if you have seen that Portugal is the second country in the European Union that makes the state of health worse in our country. We're just ahead, ladies and gentlemen. Members of Latvia and Lithuania. These are the perceptions Portuguese have about the state of health in Portugal. When asked to Portuguese about their health needs, they refer to « unsatisfied medical care». We compare very badly with other countries and are even the second country in the European Union that has less satisfactory dental care, according to the OECD report. Mr President, I would like to ask you why the PSD did not follow the finish line and abstained from the vote on the initiative on the establishment of a parliamentary Mortality Investigation Committee.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u177	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u178	This is because mortality, in fact, is the worst indicator we have and mortality in Portugal was absolutely excessive.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u179	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u180	I would like to ask you, I repeat, why you have not followed us on this initiative which was intended to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry and will be accompanied on the proposal to set up a committee of inquiry on the management of the pandemic. The management of the pandemic was a shame in this country, there are multiple cases of corruption and we need to know what is going on. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u181	To reply, Mr. Rui Cristina has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u182	Mr President, I will begin by replying to the PCP Member John Dias - telling him that the Democratic Social Party won the elections in 2015 and who made that Prime Minister's government possible, António Costa, that management, was the Communist Party. [[PSD applause.]] The truth is, over the past seven years, SNS has been increasingly deteriorating and waiting times have increased in relation to consultations and surgeries. And those who strongly supported the private sector were the gentlemen, because during the last four years in which they supported management was when the Portuguese had to resort to health insurance. That's what they've really defended. The gentlemen have strengthened the private sector! [[PSD applause.]] Mrs Joana Cordeiro, of the Liberal Initiative, and Mr Pedro Frazão, of the Arrival, I thank you for your comments and I am pleased to know that they accompany the Social Democratic Party's concerns about health. The question of family doctors is a concern and, as such, the Social Democratic Party presented 30 proposals, one of them referring to the hiring of more family doctors and, if necessary, using the private or tertiary sector in order to fill this need. Finally, I would like to point out that we have had access to the OECD report, but it was nothing that would scare us because, indeed, in the last seven years, health has been getting worse every year. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u183	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we move on to the second block of requests for clarification. First of all, the word belongs to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN, who has one minute to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u184	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Rui Cristina and the PSD for bringing the debate to a very important issue. In Portugal, there is a structural problem and it is even with some dismay that we have recently heard Mr. Minister of Health, on the one hand, deny the chaos of health, but on the other hand assume that it is customary in our country what has been assisted in the National Health Service, as if it were almost a fairy and a fatality we are doomed not to overcome the constraints of the SNS. in this sense, there is indeed a number of proposals that have been brought to this House of the Republic. We cannot continue to watch for more than 16 hours of waiting in emergencies, 2 hours of waiting, for example, for an ambulance or even for the problems that have occurred in maternal-child care. Mr President, we are very surprised that the PSD, when the time comes for truth, does not follow any proposals aimed at overcoming some of these constraints. One of the aspects that has already been remembered today, and well, was the appreciation of health professionals, particularly health assistant technicians, whose recognition of career has remained in the drawer by the government. The PSD has abstained from voting on the NAP proposal. With regard to maternal and child health, we must not forget that there are proposals, such as the creation of maternal care units, in which the PSD also abstains and we do not see any other kind of solution than to be no more public-private partnerships.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u185	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u186	We would also like to see what the proposal that the PSD brings us to, for example, solve the serious problem we have in Portugal of the lack of doctors. We have 1, 4 million people without a doctor, and it is clear that we cannot solve this problem without the appreciation and activation of these professionals in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u187	To request clarification, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Rui Cristina, I heard your initial statement, the answers you gave, the diagnosis you made, and some of the criticisms you gave to the governance of the Socialist Party. And I must say that, looking at the criticisms and positions of the Democratic Social Party, in fact, it does not seem to us that there are so many differences between what the Democratic Social Party has done and what it wants the PS to do. For example, in relation to private resources, the PSD has repeatedly proposed this exactly in this Assembly of the Republic and the PS is fulfilling exactly that. For example, when the Left Block proposed the internalization of complementary diagnostic and therapeutic means, ensuring savings to the state and better services to users, the PSD was next to the PS to reject this proposal. For example, when we say that one of the fundamental problems of the SNS is the lack of appreciation of professionals and we bring to this House proposals to value wages, working conditions, reward exclusive dedication, the PSD often votes as PS, i.e. against these proposals. Therefore, in practice, PS criticizes PSD, but PS often makes the choices that PSD has made, and that is the fundamental problem of health in our country. Let us look at the case of Algarve, in which there is a paradigmatic example. You know what was one of the most structural decisions in the Algarve with regard to radiosurgery. In 2004, when there was a choice on public investment to create the radiotherapy centre, the PSD in the government said "no, give yourself to private". Today, almost 20 years later, the choice to deliver to private means that people to do radiosurgery in the Algarve have to go to Seville. This is the cost of lack of public investment, but it is the strategic choice of the PSD. Unfortunately, it is also the strategic choice of the Socialist Party. That is why we approved in this House of the Republic a Health Bases Act — the PSD was against — but the PS does not comply. That is why the PS has led a set of measures that we have presented here, which also led to the Left Block moving away from the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u189	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u190	Finally, Mr President, with a sentence: the Socialist Party says it loves the SNS, the PSD says it likes this, but, in fact, they both vote against the SNS and that is why we challenge your choices. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u191	For a final request for clarification, Mr Luís Soares of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the people are wise and have memory. When people say that destroying is easier than building is right. He has reason and memory because he thinks about the years of PSD governance. Today, much of the difficulties that remain in the National Health Service are, in fact, due to the lack of planning. I give a very clear example: family doctors. How long does it take to train a family doctor today? The measures that have been taken will take effect in a few years. Between 2011 and 2015, we had less training, we had fewer family doctors, and this also had consequences in providing health care. It's normal that the PSD doesn't talk about human resources. We remember well what was said to health professionals who spent, from day to night, or from night to day, from 35 to 40 hours a week: they sent us to emigrate. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] What we have been doing in the last seven years was, precisely, rebuilding the relationship of trust with health professionals so they would not emigrate, so they would return, so they could give to our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So we already have two good examples of a very short time ago. One of them was the agreement made with pre-hospital emergency technicians, valuing their remuneration.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u193	And the nurses!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u194	The other was the recovery of the accounting points for the career progression of nurses, who long waited for the PS commitment and are fulfilling.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u195	No, that's still too far away!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u196	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, when they accuse the government and the PS of being against the National Health Service, the dialogue becomes deaf. How can you accuse the Socialist Party of being against the National Health Service, when in the last seven years we have been responsible for the recovery of all the cuts that had been made and for the presentation in 2023 of the largest budget for the National Health Service? How can you, sirs? Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] Against the National Health Service — and I shall finish, Mr President — are those who, having had the opportunity to vote favourably the largest budget for the National Health Service, rejected it. This has a name: Arrival, Liberal Initiative, PSD, Left Block and PCP. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u197	To reply, Mr. Rui Cristina has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u198	Mr President, answering questions from Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, the PAN, and Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, the Left Block, the truth is that the Social Democratic Party has valued health professionals. As such, he presented a proposal in this Budget for the remunerative appreciation of health professionals, and the Socialist Party has led to it. [[PSD applause.]] Regarding radiosurgeries in the Algarve, the PSD has already submitted a request to call here several entities in order to explain why the Portuguese, the algae, are forced to go to Seville to do radiosurgery. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u199	It was a choice from Durão Barroso!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u200	Mr Luís Soares of the Socialist Party, the truth is that sometimes it seems to me that Members of the Socialist Party do not read newspapers, they do not see news. It seems to me that they only read and see the official newspaper of the Socialist Party, the Socialist Action. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from PS Eurico Brilliant Dias and Maria Antonio de Almeida Santos.]] I will read some headlines from last week: « The pediatric urgency of Setúbal has closed », « The emergencies of 17 hospitals have transferred patients to health centres », « The health centres cannot respond to the re-emergency of the patients of the emergencies » and « The emergencies of Santa Maria have times to wait more than 10 hours. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u201	Answer the request for clarification!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u202	I could go on, but time is short. We already realize that the Socialist Party does not want to discuss the present, does not want to discuss the current situation of the SNS, its current chaotic and degrading state. [[Protests of PS Members.]] The truth is that when the Social Democratic Party was in government from 2011 to 2015, it invested more than the Socialist Party when it was in government from 2015 to 2019. The speaker posted a newspaper. It is here: « Costa has invested less than Passos Rabbit. » This in health. [[PSD applause.]] [[Risos from PS member Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] Mrs. Members, to conclude last October, the PS had a new record and was not in the low execution of 23, 8 % of the Budget submitted for 2023. It was the record of the EUR 1000 million that the Portuguese spent on health insurance. That was the record last October! We must continue, we must defend health for all, not just for the rich. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u203	To give a political statement on behalf of the Portuguese Communist Party, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u204	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If you will allow me, before starting this speech, I would like to welcome the fact that Évora was elected European Capital of Culture in 2027. [[PCP, PS and IL applause.]] It is true that they are still provisional, but the results in competitions for the Support Programme for the Arts 2023 - 2026 reveal the deep devaluation of the Government in the culture of our country, questioning the constitutional principle of cultural democratization and free use and cultural creation. More than 100 cultural structures from north to south of the country have been out of support in the coming years, its overwhelming majority in the biennial mode. They did not leave out because they did not meet the criteria set out in the invitations to tender, they were out of the way because of a lack of budget allocation. That is, despite the candidatures having a positive assessment and having been considered eligible, they had no support whatsoever, which reveals the insufficiency of the funds allocated to the support of the arts. In addition to the budget allocated to the support of the arts being below what is necessary, as evidenced by the results of these competitions, they were marked by the discretion of the decisions. Despite the government's announced budgetary reinforcement, it was applied discriminatoryly and was directed mainly to the four-year modality, introducing greater disparity between this modality and the biennial. This announcement was made at a stage following the submission of applications. If it had been known before, perhaps the option of applying the structures would have been different. In the biennial mode, in the dance, only eight of the 20 eligible candidates are proposed for support; in the music and opera, only 7 of the 15 eligible candidates; in the disciplinary crossing, circus and street arts, 11 of the 17 eligible candidates; in the visual arts, 8 of the 29 eligible candidates; in the theatre, 23 of the 42 eligible candidates; and in the programming, 13 of the 46 eligible candidates. Cultural structures such as Seiva Trumpe, Porto, or The Barraca, in Lisbon, with a widely recognized work for decades and ensuring a true public service, have been excluded from support. Just as they were excluded from the support of ACTA — The Algarve Theatre Company, the Lendias d' Encantar Association, in the Alentejo, the Filandorra — Northeast Theatre, in Vila Real, the Jangada Theatre, in Lousada, the Setúbal Animation Theatre, the Interior Theatre, in Lousã, and many other cultural structures. Exclusions of support include entities from various artistic areas, such as Gaia Artists — Cultural Cooperative, in visual arts, the Portuguese Contemporary Dance Company, in dance, the c.e.m. — centre in movement, in disciplinary crossings, the Association of Friends of Tocá Rufar, in the programming area. To be confirmed, these results will only aggravate the dramatic and unsustainable situation in which many cultural creation structures are found. Many may not even meet the conditions to maintain the development of artistic and cultural work, with all that it means in the weakening of cultural activity, in the increase of the unemployment of many cultural workers and in the contribution to the deepening of regional inequalities and asymmetries, and may lead to the disappearance of the cultural activity that still persists in several regions and which, in many cases, ensures access to culture with populations of many villages and villages throughout the country. In a statement, Seiva Trumpe, which completed 50 years in September 2023, following the exclusion of the Sustained Arts Support Program, reported that she decided to suspend the activity on 1 January 2023. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: All this could have been avoided if the proposals made by the CFP in the State budget for 2023 had been approved. We proposed that the amount of money to support the arts should amount to about EUR 86 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u205	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u206	With this amount, support was provided for all the artistic creation structures eligible in the year 2023. This was not the option of the Government and the PS or of the parties to its right. Once again, the PS, accompanied by PSD, IL and Chega, prevented the approval of this proposal and was responsible for the difficult situation of many cultural structures. It is responsible for the insufficient budget for the support of the arts, for the promotion of precariousness and for the devaluation of work and of the workers of culture. Each of these parties is responsible for reducing cultural and artistic activity in the country. In the face of the disaster in the results of the competitions, which has led to its challenge by tens and dozens of structures and by many and many cultural workers, the Minister of Culture insists not to correct the mistakes, nor to reinforce the money for supporting the arts, which is well revealing the political options of the government of de-investment and contempt for artistic creation. It is up to the Government to support, promote, dynamize, create the conditions for free use and artistic creation and for the development of cultural activity throughout the territory, but its action contrasts with this design. What is required is that the Government take steps to correct the results of the competitions, ensure adequate financing for the support of the arts, strengthen the funds under the Support Programme for the Arts and ensure that no cultural and artistic structure is eligible, and that it fulfils the criteria laid down by the competitions, remains without due support. What these results also show is the profound inadequacy of the model of support for the arts. The amendments made did not solve the fundamental problems. Therefore, it is important to consider a non-competitive support model that guarantees support for all artistic and cultural structures, considering their project and plan of activities and that it can potentiate, throughout the territory, dynamization and cultural development. These shortcomings also reveal the need to break with a path that understands culture as a commodity and an instrument of ideological domain and to create a public service of culture that ensures freedom and diversity of artistic creation, the enhancement and strengthening of the rights of cultural workers, the safeguarding of cultural heritage and an effective democratization in access to culture as a factor of emancipation of the whole people. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u207	Madam Member, four Members have signed up to request clarification. Ladies and gentlemen. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u208	In blocks of two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u209	Thus, the first request for clarification belongs to Mrs Carla Madureira of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u210	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Paula Santos, we begin by thanking the fact that we are bringing this topic of support for the arts to the debate. Today we are witnessing the widespread dissatisfaction of cultural actors in the area of arts and performances — I would say even a huge revolt — by how the Ministry of Culture has over the years been conducting support policies in the context of the DGArtes contest (Direction-General of the Arts). This widespread feeling of disappointment is not just now. In the background, it is only the culmination of the enormous frustrations of cultural agents. throughout this socialist government—and there are already 7 years—it has been creating expectations that, year after year, have been cheated. This climate of frustration is once again the result of promises not fulfilled in funding to a sector which is already impoverished — especially with the pandemic — and with the use of handicrafts and deceptions that are systematically used by the government to escape the commitments made, especially when it is in the election campaign. This year, when the applications opened in May, the six contests of the Sustained Support Programme had allocated a total amount of 81, 3 million euros. In September, the Minister for Culture announced that this value would increase to EUR 148 million. Mistake! After all, this increase in funds is not proportional or balanced, because it ignores the biennial competitions, deepening the chronic underfinancing existing and calling into question the continuity of many biennial financing projects. Mrs Deputy, this financing model has been coming since the time when your party supported the government and does not have to do with only available amounts. So I ask you, is it only now that you give it? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u211	The second request for clarification will be from Mrs Maria João Castro of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u212	Mr President, before starting the request for clarification, allow me to say that the PS is associated with the greeting of Évora as European Capital of Culture. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Paula Santos, this government has reinforced the culture bet with a budget that grows 23 % compared to 2022. It is a clear strengthening of the Sustained Arts Support Programme, where efforts have been made to introduce stability, technical and financial training of supported entities in order to consolidate and professionalize this sector. contrary to what has been said, there has been an increase in financial support, either in biennial tenders or in quadrennial tenders, a total increase of 114 % in a total appropriation of EUR 148 million. The greatest reinforcement in quadrennial competitions, where there is the possibility of renewal, aims at stability in a sector that always wants it. This invitation to tender shall be awarded to entities whose labour relations are based on formal contracts, which shall be supported by the CFP. More than 13 % were supported entities and increased by 68 % the average value attributed by entity; 150 maintained support and there were 61 new entities. The winning entities received 100 % of the requested value. It also sought to combat regional asymmetries by ensuring the financing of a minimum number of entities in each NUTS ( Nomenclature of Territorial Units for Statistical Purposes ). I could continue with more facts. What I cannot and cannot do, in individual cases of entities that did not have support, is to defend that a Minister or Members can interfere in a contest.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u213	Individual cases? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u214	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about a competitive logic with independent judges who decided independently according to established criteria. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PCP and BE MP Joana Mortagua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u215	In reply, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u216	Mr President, I would like to thank the questions that have been raised and start with Mrs Carla Madureira of the PSD. Madam Member, the CFP has been constantly and consistently involved in defending the strengthening of support for the arts. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u217	In particular, it has had concrete responses to strengthening funds. In fact, in the various budgets of the last few years, we have intervened in this way. What was missing, for many of these proposals to be approved, was the positive vote of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u218	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u219	If they had voted in favour, these funds would have been entered in the State budget and the support for the arts would have been much more valued and strengthened. So we didn't wake up now for the problem. The PSD has, yes, lost all these years opportunities to follow the PCP in our defense, claim and proposal. [[PCP applause.]] Mrs Maria João Castro of the Socialist Party, I also thank you for your question. What the honourable Member refers to as individual cases is more than 100 cultural and artistic structures that meet the criteria, which are considered eligible and which have been left out of support. We're not talking about one, two or three — we're talking about 100! More than 100 cultural and artistic structures meet the criteria. We are not here discussing whether the criteria are fair or not. That is not what we are discussing. They have fulfilled what the government has established in the criteria. They meet, they are eligible and see: they have no support! They have no support because there was not the necessary reinforcement of the funds to support all these structures. We are talking about structures whose evaluation of the project is positive, it was considered but on the part of the Government there was no political will to ensure the strengthening of funds necessary for all to be supported. Many are well known in our country! Not only The Barraca, the Seiva Trope, to give these examples, like various structures from north to south of the country. Let me refer to another question, Mrs Deputies, because you referred to territorial balance and regional asymmetries. The fact is that many of these structures that were left out of support were eligible. That is what we are dealing with and I am asking the matter of repeating here as often as necessary. This was not punctual and reveals that the contest is inadequate and does not respond to what is necessary for the development of cultural activity in our country. Many of these structures are located in regions of our country where, if not their activity, the population does not have access to cultural activity. [[PCP applause.]] This is a determining aspect and stays out of these contests. When we put here the need to review the model of support for the arts and to consider and consider a model that is not competitive is precisely in order to support the whole structure and enhance cultural activity, which is so important, Mrs. It is so important for the integral development of all individuals and so important for the emancipation of our people. [[PCP applause.]] [[Protests by PS Deputies Carla Sousa and Maria João Castro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u220	You now have the floor, for a request for clarification on behalf of the Arrival, Mrs Rita Matias.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u221	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Paula Santos, allow me to say that, in fact, parliamentary life, sometimes if it is not to cry, it must be to laugh. There are parties that are very different from what they say and then from what they do. [[Protests by PS Deputies Carla Sousa and Maria João Castro.]] Yesterday, for example, the Socialist Party — which is said and which self-proclaims the bench of women's defence — has led the Committee on Culture, the request submitted by the Arrival to call here at the House, Mr. Secretary of State of Sport to provide us with some clarifications on the harassment scandals that have occurred in women's football. The Socialist Party has led this request by saying that it is all right and that they are fighting harassment very strongly, because — see there — they have created a tab on the website of the IPDJ (English Institute of Sport and Youth, I. P.) to address the issue of harassment. So the Portuguese are resting because they certainly know that a pedophile or a rapist will stop doing what they have to do because they have seen a very beautiful socialist campaign. [[Protests by PS MP Maria João Castro.]] It is also very nice to hear the Portuguese Communist Party talk today about support for the arts and culture and precariousness in the sector, when he gave his hand to the Socialist Party not one, not two, not three, but six times, approving the socialist budgets that most penalized the culture, Budgets that did not devote even 2% of the Budget to culture. [[Congrats from the CH.]] For example, the Communist Party was also silent when this House discussed the fact that raining in the National Museum of Ancient Art, the rooms were not air-conditioned and the works were exposed to risks. He did not participate in the discussion because in the Aljube Museum it does not rain and therefore the important thing is that April 25 is well-founded and well-supported. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, culture in Portugal does not begin and does not end in April. More: it must be said that the extreme left has the hands stained from the attack on the culture of the beautiful because they took the universities of fine arts, took the arts schools and imposed the current of the single thought, persecuting those who dare think differently, who love, for example, the canons. This is a limitation on freedom. We have also not heard the PCP talk about the arrogance of this regime that dares penalize conservative artists and that only allocates funding through the artist's political color and his willingness to carry a nail in his hand. I conclude with a question — thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance — which is not ours, is from the association SOS Arte PT. This association calls on all authorities to pay for the exhibitions they make in the country instead of giving up only spaces and still waiting for donations from a free work. The question I ask is very concrete: is the Portuguese Communist Party willing to be consistent with what it says and, in the authorities where it has dominion, to truly fund artists instead of continuing to push them into the forced volunteering regime? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u222	You now have the floor for one minute, Mr Rui Tavares, to make a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u223	Mr President, I would begin by associating myself with the words of Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP, first by congratulating Évora, all the Alentejos and all the Portuguese. This city, which has already given so much to European culture and which has in fact already been a European capital of culture, at least at the time of the Renaissance, will give more to Portuguese and European culture in 2027. Secondly, I would like to associate myself with the substance of the intervention. In fact, if there was a strengthening of quadriennial support, which is welcomed, as more artistic entities have reached, there was a real razia in biennial support. This means tens, and even hundreds, of artistic entities that have continued activity and that no longer have support, and that should concern us all. Mr. Minister said he could review these decisions and then go back. What is called for is that there is an attitude of some urgency on the part of this Parliament and that, for example, there is a reflection on the creation of a network of cultural points. This means being able to give stability to these associations, giving them responsibility for the management of heritage that is often returned and that may have artistic functions, and may benefit from another associationivism in philharmonics and associations of various genres throughout the country. The Free will be available for a path in this direction and I would like to know whether the CFP would also be available for that.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u224	In reply, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u225	Mr President, I am grateful for the questions put. I believe that we must always — and I must do this today — reiterate what we have said many times, but that it is still being overthrown by some political forces. What the CFP has contributed to were solutions and for solving concrete problems over all these years. [[Exactly! It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u226	It was through the intervention of the PCP that, for example, we succeeded in replacing the free museums on Sundays and holidays. [[PCP applause.]] This is a moment that marks the difference in our understanding of access to culture for all, for all the people of our country. This is also present in the intervention of the authorities of the CDU ( United Democratic Coalition ). We can now set the example of Évora, who has just been elected European Capital of Culture and which reveals, in fact, the work, commitment and appreciation that the CFP makes in the authorities at the level of culture. It is, in fact, a distinctive feature of our project in this area. I think this example speaks for itself. In the CDU authorities, the development of cultural activity is also very significant, in particular support for local groups, activities and entities that develop this activity in each of the territories. I would also like to thank Mr Rui Tavares for his question. Of course, we believe that there must be a dynamization of cultural activity throughout the territory. When we bring here the question of support for the arts is because these have been the cultural and artistic structures which, in many and many places in our country, are the ones who truly take culture to the people, ensuring in practice a true democratization of culture. Now, they need to be supported and conditions guaranteed so that they can develop this work, so that they can even grow and that this work can be enhanced in each of the territories. That is why, when we look at these results again, we cannot comply with the fact that more than 100 structures have been excluded when they meet the criteria that have been established. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask again this question because it is not just a huge injustice, as this is not the necessary way to develop the culture of our country. When we place the need for the establishment of a public service of culture, it is because it is really necessary and the government has to have a concrete intervention on this matter. in this State budget, we once again brought the need to achieve the goal of 1% of the State budget for culture, which allows the support of the arts, which enables the valuing and securing the rights of workers and which enables the safeguarding of our heritage. We regret that the PS, the PSD, the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival did not follow the PCP in these demands that are so necessary. But here we say, in conclusion, that we will continue to intervene and that we will be here, because culture, being a pillar of our democratic regime, is essential not only for its defence, but for the investment that free use and cultural creation are, in fact, a reality throughout our territory. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u227	For a political statement on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Joana Mortágua now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u228	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In April 2020, the money for the next cycle of arts-supported support was announced, which was far below what was necessary or even what was acceptable. Minister Adam and Silva acknowledged this and, in September, soon after the deadline for submission of applications, announced a reinforcement of almost EUR 80 million. However, this reinforcement was intended exclusively for quadrennial applications, with the justification that there would be a great migration to this modality. This migration did not happen and, without reinforcement, the biennial modality left out anything such as 28 % to 60 % of the applications eligible for support, depending on the artistic area.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u229	It's true! [[Protests by PS MP Miguel Matos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u230	The Minister of Culture was warned by the sector, but he did not want to listen, and the greatest increase in money ever—as announced— created one of the greatest asymmetries and injustices ever. Management experimentalism can even become a death sentence for projects that had sufficient scores and only received no support because the money ran out.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u231	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u232	Pedro Adam and Silva demonstrated too much certainty for little knowledge about the reality of cultural and artistic creation in our country. The Minister of Culture was absolutely convinced that the best for artistic structures was four-year candidatures — which would have no problem if he were not a minister but a leader of these structures capable of a four-year candidacy. As an actor, performer, musician or choreographer, Pedro Adam and Silva would have artistic freedom to think about their project within a time limit that he fully understood. As a minister, Pedro Adam and Silva had an obligation to know that plurality and diversity are worth much more than their certainty about the country's cultural reality. With this, I want to point out that the Left Block does not understand that the support to the arts must be an annual race, a permanent instability, year after year, by hand, as if many of these structures did not have a history, a past to prove its value. But the solution adopted by the Ministry of Culture to inject only four-year tenders did not solve the problem either. Minister Pedro Adam and Silva may even have had all the good will of the world, had enough to save Seiva Trope from his fight against death in the year in which he completed 50 years of cultural activity in Porto ; it had sufficed for the Clara Andermatt Company not to have hibernated at the end of 30 years of cultural activity in the country. We attach to this sadness a just concern: can we afford to lose the contribution of all the structures and artists who have been left out? Not only the names they all know as well, such as Albano Jerónimo or Marco Martins, but also the Casa Conveniente ; of the Teatro Animation of Setúbal ; of the Teatro do Interior, in Lousã ; of the Jangada, in Lousada ; of the Lendias d'Encantar, in Beja ; of the Jardins Efémeros, in Viseu ; or of projects such as those of the baroque music center of Queluz, of the Divine Sospiro association, DA Música portuguesa a Liker de it Propria, of the Varazim Teatro, of the Iberic Theatre, of the c.e.m or of the Platform285. Recently, I heard someone outraged on the radio: "By the soul of whom is Maria do Céu Guerra still having to go through a competition to do theater in Portugal? Oh, my God! » The truth is that it happened, and the truth is that The Barraca was excluded from the support.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u233	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u234	It's late! The project was good, but there was no money anymore. [[Protests by PS MP Miguel Matos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u235	Big hut!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u236	I do not ask « by the soul of whom», but I ask: in the name of what justice and what rigour is that companies and professionals who helped build the country that we are — a little less uncultuable than the country we could be — must submit to this lottery? On behalf of what future is it planned to exclude emerging projects to solve the mess of the previous contest, telling who was left out of the biennials to compete in support of projects? It has never been more necessary than now to rethink the entire system of support for the arts. in these sad results, two injustices are added: the first is to be excluded from the support projects that the jury scored as deserving of this support, for the only reason that the budget has been exhausted; the second is that these contests are more qualified to evaluate the good filling of forms than the validity of their artistic projects. One day, someone will explain why the Monitoring Committees of the Directorate-General for Arts serve, what they accompany and report and what role they play in the financing decisions they are made. What we know is that the jury is asked to examine Excel leaves, but nothing is said about what's going on in the field. Right away, ladies and gentlemen. Members, and finally, we need to correct this injustice and reinforce the money from the biennial support. As soon as you follow, you will need to hear the structures on a new model of art support that makes a commitment to the continuity that does not pass through the Excel visa and a commitment to the renewal that does not go through the discrimination of those who are starting. The artists are struggling for a fairer financing model that defends the right in Portugal, and the Block is with them! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u237	The Bureau noted the inclusion of four requests for clarification to the honourable Member, who will, I presume, respond in blocks of two. To make the first request for clarification, Mrs Carla Sousa of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u238	Mr President, I would like to reiterate the greeting that has already been made to the city of Évora, which will receive the European Capital of Culture — it is a unique opportunity to reinvent itself in creativity and to make itself much more and better. But I also think we should welcome the last three finalist cities, which will be national capitals of culture, in a process that will be managed by 2026 and which, I think, will motivate us all and add work. My second word goes to the cultural agents who, at this moment and this day, have indeed not been supported. We perceive the moments of frustration, we perceive the moments of distress,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u239	That's not enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u240	... but we all knew—because we left this assumption from the beginning—that this was a contest. We've changed some rules, but we haven't changed the competitive model. Therefore, what we want is that all these entities use the hearing period of interested parties, which is their right, to enforce their convictions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u241	And to compete with each other!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u242	This debate has a sort of misunderstanding,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u243	It's a species...!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u244	...because the contests are not finished. We are discussing with preliminary evaluations that, in fact, should only make sense for the PSD, because, I recall, in 2014 the PSD did not make an audience of interested parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u245	We're almost in 2023! It's been almost seven years of government.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u246	At the time, all the other parties demanded that this hearing of interested parties take place. Now, it seems strange to me that the same parties end up neglecting her. This is not a pro-form, this is a democratic process, and we want to do it. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u247	That said, let's go to the preliminary data we have. My colleague has already dealt with some of the budgetary values. We have independent judges, we have very strict areas of evaluation, the rules are clearly favorable to entities, having been required by the sector, in a process that happened in 2018.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u248	They are entities that are over 30 years old! You have to prove what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u249	For what purpose is it that, having not yet evaluated the competitive process—which is happening—we are already making changes? This is one of the problems in the area, clearly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u250	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u251	I shall conclude, Mr President. I only use it to say that we will not defend discretionary support. As an example of what has been recently linked, that the jury is ad hoc, there will be no discretionary evaluation processes on our part. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u252	Unless the company belongs to the minister's sister! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u253	Mr Rui Vilar, from the PSD, now has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u254	Mr President, first of all, and with your usual condescendence, allow me a previous note on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group to congratulate the city of Évora and its inhabitants on their candidacy to the European Capital of Culture in 2027. I would also like to welcome the PCP and the Left Block for bringing this plenary as important as that of culture; an issue which the PSD and its Parliamentary Group consider to be of utmost importance, because we believe that culture is a framework for development for the citizenship of a country, and can and should also function as an encouragement to the economic sector. This, when we are faced with a scenario of frustration in almost all areas protected by the Ministry of Culture. In fact, the problems are identified and assumed by the government, but never solved, thus perpetuated in time. It says the current and popular expression that «words take the wind», and well know the professionals of the cultural sector of this sad reality. The government and the left, which fill their mouths to talk about culture, unfortunately, are horrifying reality. This can be seen in the national museums, which are in a catastrophic situation, in the rehabilitation and recovery of the heritage, which is virtually non-existent, in the Staff Regulations of the Professionals of the Culture Area and in the Portugal Film Commission programme, where the agents of the sector today, on December 7, still do not know how it will work from next month. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u255	I recall that in 2017 a new model of support for the arts was approved. With management, we lived the "now it will be". It had finally been found the magic formula to solve the supports of the arts! Here they arrived, the Left Block and the left generally woke up, finally, of a long hibernation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u256	He didn't hear anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u257	The left, which supported, in 2016, in 2017, in 2018 and 2019 the policies of the socialist governments, which now consider them wrong. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u258	And where was the PSD? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u259	What I ask the honourable Member is this: what has changed, after all? I recall that we are facing a problem that is neither new nor unique and that stems from the governments that have been supported by the Bloc and the CFP. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u260	If they had voted in favour, it would have been approved!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u261	In reply, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u262	Mr President, Mr Rui Vilar, do you know what is worse than having a bad minister of culture?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u263	It's having one of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u264	It is not to have any Minister of Culture, which was what happened during the last PSD government. There was not even a Minister of Culture whom we could call 'bad'. So when you ask me "what has changed, after all? » Well, at least now there is a minister about whom I can come to say that he is a bad minister of culture! To discuss the quality of the minister, I wanted to answer Mrs Carla Sousa because I think we have to distinguish things. There is, in fact, an injustice inherent in the model of the competition that causes good projects to enter into competition, against each other, without being well understood because they have score and stay out and others have score and stay inside. [[Protests by PSD Member Paulo Rios de Oliveira.]] All those projects that complained about staying out—for example, The Barraca, the Clara Andermatt Company and other major cultural projects that have existed for tens of years in this country— had sufficient scores to be assigned to them the support money supported to the arts. I just didn't have any money to give them! So we ask: with what criterion, in equally worthy projects, have some received and others not? Was it because some came first? Did the others delay? Were there no longer to The Barraca because he had gone to others? With what method is a ranking defined in a competition of cultural projects such as the Lendias d'Enchantar, for example, even theatrical and dance projects so old in the country? [[PS Deputy Protest Carla Sousa.]] I think we have to grant — and the honourable Member could grant it — that the problem is the lack of money. I repeat: the problem is the lack of money! If the reinforcement that was made in the quadriennial model had also been done in the biennial model, at this moment we would not be discussing this problem; at the moment, there would not be dozens of structures saying that there is a race in support of the arts!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u265	There isn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u266	What cannot happen is, in the year when the government says that we have a cultural status, that we have obligations for cultural professionals and that these professionals themselves have more obligations than they had before social security, because of the responsibilities of the structures towards their workers, there is a race in the biennial projects that will lead to the death of many structures and the unemployment of many cultural workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u267	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u268	Therefore, there is nothing discretionary in the contests, nor do we want any discretionary in the contests. What we want is that the structures are supported as they deserve, in this country, by the work they do. What is discretionary, yes — I now take advantage of it to tell you, Mrs Deputies — is that the competition has not yet been launched, which should have been launched two months ago, to support projects because, according to DGArtes, there has not yet been a higher indication. That's discretionary! What is discretionary is the Ministry of Culture to be waiting for the results of the biennial and quadriennial to then send to the Project Support Program those who were not supported in the Sustained Support Program for the Arts. What's going to happen? What will happen is that emerging artists, independent artists, unstructured artists will lose their support, because those who should be entitled to the biennial were pushed to support projects, as the Minister of Culture has already said he wanted to do. This is a joke, Mrs. Member, a joke that harms, and much, the artistic structures of this country. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u269	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's good to return to your life. I want to thank, very briefly, the manifestations I have received from many people, of concern to my state of health and also of satisfaction with my recovery. Thank you very much to all and to all. [[PS, PSD, PCP and BE applause.]] To make a request for clarification, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u270	Madam President, Mrs Joana Mortágua, I welcome you. In fact, the problem with which we are confronted, following these results of art support, reveals that this model is inadequate and does not respond to the needs of the development of cultural and artistic activity in our country. The fact is that these results leave out more than 100 cultural and artistic structures that meet the criteria established by the Government, which have been considered eligible, whose projects presented were valued, but which still did not have support under this programme. We considered — and in our speech just now, we referred to this — that what would be necessary and that the Government was required to strengthen funding to ensure that all the structures that competed and whose candidatures were considered eligible had due support. I would like to ask the Left Block for its opinion on this proposal and if we follow the CFP in this measure. Another issue we would also like to raise at the moment is a question that is not new, because already in other competitions many eligible structures have been getting out of the way, always with the same problem as the budget allocation; because the budget allocation was not enough for everyone, they were out of the way. We ask whether the issues of funding and policy options in cultural matters do not require a break with the options of the past and progress not only from a perspective of strengthening funding and the need to achieve what the sector has been talking about, 1% of the Culture Budget, but also from considering a different model of support for the arts, from a non-competitive perspective that actually allows support for all structures, with project, with an activity plan. We are not talking about any discretionary support based on what has been work and presentation, but this model would not only enable the development of cultural and artistic activity, artistic creation, but also meet a goal of our Constitution, which is the democratization and access of all to culture. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u271	To make a request for clarification, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva, of the IL Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u272	Madam President, the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group is also associated with the greetings which all other parliamentary groups have already transmitted by the choice of Évora as European Capital of Culture in 2027, leaving also a word for Braga, Aveiro and Ponta Delgada for their efforts in their candidatures, which, in itself, means that there will be an advance in these localities. [[Congratulations from IL and PSD Member Alexandre Poço.]] By going directly to the theme that the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party brought us today, from the Programme of Support for the Arts — we had to choose to make the request for clarification regarding one of the interventions, so it is not to minimize the intervention of the CFP, but consider that this request for clarification can also be addressed to the CFP, which also brought the same subject to debate —...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u273	If you give me time to answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u274	... there is an obvious conclusion, after we hear both parties: the state is neither nor can be a solution for everything.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u275	No, just for big companies!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u276	More than looking at the state just like a minced pig that releases money to solve all the problems—until this money is not from the state, it is from the taxpayers— we must begin to look at the main responsibility of the State, which is to draw good rules, that is, for the market and society to work, to create what is called 'right incentives' so that the system, each organization, institutions will work and can achieve good conditions. [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]] It is interesting that after hearing the speeches on this subject, not only the PCP and the Left Block, but also the PSD, PS, Free and Arrival, the word « mecenate » has never been heard by any of these parties. » You didn’t hear it, it’s curious! [[Protests by CH Member Pedro dos Santos Frazão and MP of PCP Paula Santos.]] It is not only a solution as it should be, also, through a clearer, obviously faster law and with better framework. Not only is the State not a solution for everything that are theatre companies and other cultural organizations of civil and private society, such as the State itself, in cultural terms, needs the patronage.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u277	The state? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u278	Just look, for example, at the National Aid Palace, which had the programme « A room, a mechanics». We can also look at the reality of the National Museum of Ancient Art, the National Theatre D. Maria II or, for private initiatives such as, for example, the Festival Music of the World, which I know is very much of the pleasure of the Block of the Left - is your wave! -,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u279	You know what my wave is there!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u280	...and has as main sponsor and mechanics to Galp, that you so much like and so critical! So if you try to get the extraordinary profits, then she doesn't sponsor the World Music Festival, or other festivals they like—and there we will meet, because I also love going there! [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u281	In response to these two requests for clarification, Mrs Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u282	Mr President, I think Mr. Rodrigo Saraiva was wrong in the debate. We could be discussing EDP, Galp or Mello Group, but we're not. Neither these nor any of the big companies that treat the state, and they always treated, like their porcupine. We are talking about artists, people who produced, realized, culturally built this country, with plurality and diversity. The honourable Member, perhaps, does not suspect that my wave is the Alentejo song. And, well, if you're market-dependent to access the Alentejo song, it's hard for me to live! The advantage of public service to support arts and culture is that it guarantees diversity. If, one day, the market determines that we all have to hear fado, for example, public service will not force everyone to do so. There are people who like rock!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u283	They've got Spotify!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u284	The public service must ensure that everyone can access various kinds of art, that various types of art can access financing...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u285	But it's not a solution for everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u286	... and that, therefore, a group of alentejo songs from a council such as the one from Évora, which has now been considered European City of Culture, can be financed to record your CD(compat disc) when a large record company such as Universal, or other, finds that there is no market for the alentejo song.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u287	It's on YouTube!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u288	That is the role of public support for the arts. If you don't want to understand, I hope you understand now!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u289	I understand!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u290	Mrs Paula Santos, we agree. Today, I read in a public opinion article that "not courageously solve the existing support model is implicitly taking on the desire to close several structures. And the truth is, when making a decision that is money management—that is, by recognizing that money is little and deciding to make a reinforcement of EUR 80 million, but only in one of the financing models—the Minister for Culture knows perfectly that there are some structures that will achieve this support and other structures that will define, which are those that are candidates for the biennial model, which has not been strengthened. Therefore, there is an attempt, through management, to redesign the panorama of support for structures. The problem is that this attempt, on the one hand, is not transparent and on the other hand, as has already been said, does not guarantee democracy, does not guarantee plurality, does not guarantee what is essential in culture — and that is why the public service of culture is so important — it does not guarantee diversity. There is another problem with competitions. In addition to the lack of money, there is the problem of non-implementation of budgets.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u291	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u292	In 2022, we had an execution that is equivalent to the 2018 budget. Therefore, continue to increase budgets that are to be implemented — in EUR 300 million, between 2018 and 2022, for example — also greatly complicates the accounts of those who depend on the support of the arts. There is another issue, which is the role of DGArtes in these competitions. In fact, DGArtes should have follow-up committees to monitor the structures that will then be evaluated, but it does not. It doesn't have them, it doesn't work, it doesn't accompany them, that's what all the structures say. Therefore, cultural and artistic structures end up being evaluated with Excel criteria, an Excel visa that then creates a ranking that, when there is no money for all, makes distinctions that populations naturally and artists themselves feel as unfair, because they do not understand how it is evaluated with Excel criteria artistic creations that are not quantifiable in this way. This is the problem of seeing culture not as a public service, but as a race to public support. We have — we certainly share it — a different view and it is for it that we will continue to fight. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u293	To make a political statement, Mr João Nicolau of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u294	Madam President, if you will allow me, good eyes will see you again in these functions. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The strategic plan of the Common Agricultural Policy for Portugal was presented last week and will be in force from 2023, with a financial envelope of more than EUR 6, EUR 7 billion, directed entirely to the agricultural sector. It was also in the Portuguese Presidency of the European Union that the political agreement for the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) was reached, the biggest reform of the CAP in the last 30 years. Portugal was also the first country in the European Union to present its Strategic Plan of the CAP ( PEPAC), which had strong public participation by the main confederations, associations, experts and farmers. The objective is elementary and calls on all of us: to have a more productive agriculture and, at the same time, to be more sustainable. The Strategic Plan of the CAP will be fundamental to the climate and digital transition, which will ensure a greener and more resilient agriculture, which contributes to the development of rural areas, ensuring our strategic autonomy and aligned with the Prado Strategy and the Ecological Pact. Food supply is important in Portugal, where there is a need to ensure, on the one hand, an income that enables the risks of activity and production factors to be accommodated and, on the other hand, to ensure overall risk management. Measures such as supplementary support for young farmers and risk management instruments, such as insurance or the establishment of the Rural Emergency Fund, are essential, but equity is also essential. For a very significant part of the production, the yield generated by the market does not allow adequate remuneration of the production factors, a situation which, in the absence of support policies, would enhance the output of the sector. Therefore, additional redistributive support and payment to small farmers are guaranteed the fair application of CAP funds. It is also imperative to introduce incentives to more demanding practices that contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, preserving landscape and natural resources, preventing biodiversity loss or promoting climate transition in the agricultural sector. The strengthening of investment is essential for the development of the sector and for the strengthening of position in the country's economy, the integration of innovative processes and technologies, the efficient use of resources, the increased resilience of production systems and, on the other hand, in the rejuvenation of the sector, which is one of the needs to ensure the future, through the support of the installation of young farmers in the sector. The fact is that in recent years there has been an increase in exports of food goods above the increase in imports. It is therefore important to point out that the sector contributes today to reducing the trade balance deficit, but there is still a long way to go to ensure fair remuneration throughout the supply chain. From then on, the strengthening of the production organization, either by its role in the aggregation of supply, by reducing logistics costs and by shortening the supply chain, but also by being included in the PEPAC, a boost to producer organisations and inter-professional organizations, with positive differentiation in operational programmes. The key to increasing productivity and competitiveness in the sector is also innovation and knowledge, those aligned with the Innovation Agenda for Agriculture, Terra Futura, and therefore indispensable for the competitiveness, efficiency, environment and development of rural areas. Finally, territorial approaches are guaranteed in interventions expressed in the strategy of each territory, translated into the LEADER approach (Links between Rural Economic Development Actions) and action programmes in critical areas, such as the plans of the agroenvironmental areas, but also in the agroforestry mosaic or in the integrated management of critical areas. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the path is to innovation, modernisation, professionalization of the sector and the increase in the size of agricultural holdings. Portugal was even the fourth country of the European Union which grew most in agricultural productivity in 2021. All sectors of activity have effectively to contribute to mitigation and adaptation to climate change, and agriculture cannot be an exception. On the other hand, the daily challenges of the sector were not forgotten. Water needs, energy costs, licensing challenges, increased production costs, fair production remuneration, all of these are situations cautioned in the new CAP, for example through the end of historical rights, with the total convergence of basic payment in 2026, allowing more farmers to have access to CAP funds.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u295	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u296	The Government of the Socialist Party, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Minister of Agriculture have a strategy, have a strong ambition for the agricultural sector and the Strategic Plan of the CAP brings the tools needed to achieve the necessary climate and digital transition,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... ensuring increased productivity, without forgetting sustainability. But there is a fundamental factor that overlaps with the political commitment or robustness of the CAP Strategic Plan: the strength of our farmers and agricultural companies in Portugal. They have demonstrated in recent years the capacity to innovate, resilience to strong and adverse situations and the desire to grow and develop the sector. Thanks to all of them, against the winds and tides, against the winds of misfortune on the left and on the right,... [[CH Member Protests Bruno Nunes.]] ... the sector will continue to grow and become more competitive and, at the same time, more sustainable. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u297	The Bureau recorded the inclusion of five requests for clarification to Mr João Miguel Nicolau, who reported that he wished to respond first to two and then to the other three. To make the first request for clarification, Mr. Paulo Ramalho of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u298	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr João Nicolau, 6, 7 billion euros is really a lot of money, but not always what it seems. First of all, I would like to recall that the honourable Member said that the Portugal Common Agricultural Policy Strategic Plan for the period 2020 - 2027 will enter into force on 1 January 2023. That is, we are less than 30 days from the beginning of next year, at a time when farmers already have the planning of the next fully committed agricultural campaign, but the necessary legal diplomas have not yet been published which will define the rules of application of PEPAC, which, as we all know, is leaving the sector in great insecurity in view of their ignorance and, we recognize, in addition to being absolutely unacceptable, it constitutes a huge irresponsibility of this government. Until this government had a great concern to be one of the first Member States, as I said, to present its PEPAC in Brussels, as if this was indeed a great victory, but it did not have the same concern to discuss its architecture with farmers and their organisations. One thing is to comply with the formality of asking for contributions, another very different thing is to discuss them and value them. In fact, Parliament itself has been completely ignored in such a fundamental and strategic matter for the future of national agriculture. It is a pity that this government continues to look at the agricultural sector as a minor sector. Sometimes, in addition to the absence of a strategy, there seems to be a lack of a more focused view of the reality and interests of the sector, as has been seen recently with the issue of the extinction of regional agricultural management. This PEPAC, built unilaterally by this government, does not respond properly to imbalances in support between sectors, farmers and territories, nor does it allocate sufficient resources to promote a more productive and competitive national agricultural sector, contrary to what it says. In addition, it even reduces the average investment support rates for the RDP ( Rural Development Programme ). The Government cannot ignore that, despite all the efforts of our farmers, we still have a food deficit of more than EUR 3000 million. On the other hand, it is important to take due note that decisions have been taken by the Ministry of Agriculture, which will make it possible for many farmers, with this PEPAC, to suffer a very substantial reduction in the income aid they have received so far.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u299	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u300	therefore it is with great concern that we see the entry into force of this PEPAC, under these conditions. The question we have left is this: is the Socialist Party available to hold a serious and enlightening debate on PEPAC in Parliament this time with the presence of the Minister for Agriculture? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u301	Mr Bruno Nunes, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u302	Madam President-in-Office, I welcome your return, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr João Nicolau, three days ago, the CAP ( Confederation of Farmers of Portugal ) said that this Minister of Agriculture has no technical capacity. This is the same minister who, a few months ago, said it was better to ask why during the election campaign the CAP itself advised voters not to vote in the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u303	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u304	This is the same minister who has pledged funds and funds from the State budget to farmers in the Serra da Estrela and has spent €200 000 on a European meeting to promote agriculture. It is a shame to give so much at this meeting and to spend so much on parties and parties, more than on what is given to farmers. [[All right! Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u305	Mr President, it is clear from the way he said that we came as "the arrears of misfortune" — we haven't even talked about it yet! - who thought he was going to talk to us later. It would have been interesting for you to speak to your fellow parliamentary group colleagues who traveled with me yesterday to the lands of Trás-os-Montes, to realize that, back there, to the Marão, among all those who are there, no one understands anything about what you said! You know why? Oh, my God! I will explain to you: we are at a stage of lack of territorial cohesion, in which the way you look at the territory discriminates completely against farmers. Speaking only of what we all visited yesterday on the Hot Land of potatoes that boil under the earth, people don't even have money to keep anything at all.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u306	That's Mirandela!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u307	Mr. João Dias, the only thing that knows how to plant are false news in Beja, and so I won't talk to you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u308	I was still there yesterday! Talk about what you don't know!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u309	It was enough for you to understand what happened yesterday in Bragança, when you come to talk about the digital transition in agriculture,... [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] ...to realize that, in the Tres-os-Montes, there is not even a mobile network, there are not even roads of circulation between the municipalities; the only tied ones, those who walk the trailer of us, are the farmers, but if they came with decent trailers the fruit jumped all over the truck, because it is a shame the way they circulate, the way they treated the interior of the country!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u310	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u311	It was enough for you to look at the censuses to realize that the interior is deserted as a result of your policies, of the lack of support for the interior. There is no CAP without territorial cohesion and therefore it is completely false all that you come here to say, promising checks and financing to farmers and giving them absolutely nothing, forgetting people in abandoned lands. Do you know that the Charter of Rural Fire Perigosity was an attack on municipal chambers and farmers? Oh, my God! It was all done by the gentlemen! But maybe you don't know that. It was enough to have asked your colleagues, who even know the territory, who traveled with me yesterday, to explain to you a little bit, before coming here with this populist speech that makes no sense and that, to farmers, no longer glues.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u312	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u313	I will finish, Madam President. What I can say is that the only thing that some would realize, at the level of agriculture, and whose planting would protect them would be cannabis; others only plant lies; but as far as you are concerned, I have serious doubts that you will understand something in the garden, after the statements that you have just made. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u314	To respond to these two requests for clarification, Mr. João Nicolau has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u315	Mr President, I would like to thank the honourable Members for their questions. Ladies and gentlemen. As for Mr Bruno Nunes, he does not really understand much of what PEPAC is.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u316	He knows!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u317	I calculate that the visit has been interesting and I agree with you when it says that, indeed, there are situations that have to be corrected in terms of the redistribution of support. That is why, if I had been attentive to my intervention and understood what PEPAC is, I would realize that PEPAC aims, precisely, to align and reduce inequalities in the territory. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u318	Visa promise, and the promises you made last year didn't pay anything! Have a judgment!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u319	I recommend that you study PEPAC and then discuss it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u320	Go inside and see!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u321	Mr Ramalho is absolutely right, because it is indeed a lot of money distributed entirely to agriculture: EUR 4 million per day. Therefore, it is of extreme responsibility to manage these words and apply it correctly and fairly.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u322	Where is she going? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u323	He told us about the issue of regulation and wanted to tell him that the 2020 RDP ( Rural Development Programme 2020 ) still extends until 2025 and that we really want to achieve 100 % of the RDP by 2025. contrary to what the PSD left us, which was a hole of EUR 800 million in the PDR,... [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u324	...we want to comply with what we define with the farmers.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u325	Where are the rules?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u326	The rules are being debated,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u327	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u328	... are being effectively built, talked to the confederations, and will appear at the right time. In addition, PEPAC has an extended schedule of allocation of funds up to 2025, and therefore they will certainly appear in due course. He also spoke of the loss of income, but he forgot to say that this loss of income he talks about is that of the biggest farmers, of the strongest farmers, who lose income to give it to the small farmers and to cover more farmers. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] You forgot to say that! In fact, some will lose funds from PEPAC, but we give them to small farmers and arrive at more farmers. In fact, it was already possible to see this in the Single Aid Request of 2022, and so we will continue to do. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] The end of historic rights by 2026 is essential for the best redistribution of European funds. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u329	To make a request for clarification, Mr João Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u330	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr João Nicolau, at last — I repeat, at last! — the Strategic Plan for the Common Agricultural Policy was presented. Where? In the cellars of Vila Nova de Gaia. That says everything about what this plan is.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u331	What's wrong with Gaia? Oh, my God! Leave it! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u332	It is not made for the little ones, it is made and built for the great ones. Therefore, what you said, that it comes to distribute... Besides, before— unfortunately they did not succeed, you know why! — tried one of the largest wine producers in the country. Therefore, it is perfectly designed for the large producers and has been presented far from the small ones. Mr. Deputy, I noticed a embarrassment in you. I would say that he was, in a way, ashamed when he came to talk about the distribution that PEPAC represents. 'Small payments' was what Mr said, but he did not mention that the payment to small agriculture will suffer a cut, for those who have up to 1 ha, of 500 € per year; for those who have up to 2 ha, he will suffer a cut of 200 €! Mr. Deputies, these are the payments. I just didn't say that in many cases the payment was 50 %. The honourable Member has not talked about the sectors that are going to be penalized, as is the case with the dairy sector, and it is not just the CFP that is saying so. FENALAC (National Federation of Dairy Producers Cooperatives ), in a study by the Catholic University, identifies that the dairy sector will suffer a cut of about 70% with this Strategic Plan of the Common Agricultural Policy. He didn't speak either... Or rather, he talked about the corrections — now, in the name of the environment, they come to bring a solution! Who are these corrections for? Oh, my God! With the bureaucratic complexity that they represent,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u333	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u334	... are only for those who have the ability to acquire services for applications, leaving the small ones out again! Mr President, what we know is that the difficulties are here and are significant, and are you still saying that the end of historical rights will benefit? You'll pay every hectare the same, there's no differentiation in the hectares! In other words, the uniform payment per hectare, making no differentiation, allows you to pay equal 1 ha of rocky land and 1 ha productive of the soft oak. It's all the same, sir! And that's defending? Oh, my God! What we know is that PEPAC will serve, as it has served all these years, to do what you said, because there is no other way. The honourable Member said — and he should be ashamed of what he said — that this PEPAC produces an increase in the size of the farm. Now, I said everything! In two sentences, the honourable Member said everything: what he is going to do is concentrate on the earth, taking out the small ones to give to the big ones. [[PCP applause.]] This is what the honourable Member is here to defend.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u335	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u336	I will finish, Madam President. When farmers are faced with drought, with speculation resulting from the costs of production factors, with the pressure of prices paid for production, with sanctions and with war, what you are defending is an absolutely penalizing PEPAC for small and medium-sized farmers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u337	To make a request for clarification, Mr Rui Rocha, of the IL Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u338	It's going to go wrong! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u339	Madam President, Mr João Nicolau, I will ask you if you know when the agricultural year begins, but this is a rhetorical question, because I know what you know. The agricultural year does not begin in the calendar year, the agricultural year has already begun. So when you say that the PEPAC rules will be available in good time, I say that you are very late for the start of the agricultural year, which, as we all know, has already begun.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u340	He studied a lot, but it was in the wrong book!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u341	So what is happening is uncertainty and uncertainty, because the government was very quick to go to Brussels to make a very quick approval of PEPAC, and then to give news that Portugal was the first to approve, etc. No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u342	He was here during the presidency!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u343	... but then the arrival of the rules, which are fundamental to the availability of PEPAC to Portuguese farmers is already of little interest, this is no longer ensured. The question that has to be asked is the following: when—because it will always be late! — these rules will be available for farmers to know what they are counting on, because otherwise there are no decisions and no rules. Actually, there's nothing, there's only intentions and propaganda. I would also like to ask the honourable Member, for the February aid campaigns, to ensure that all necessary rules, all forms, all matters necessary to ensure that this campaign can run in its normal time. Finally, I would like to remind you that the issue of the compressor roll and the abuse of an absolute majority does not occur only in Parliament with regard to other political parties, because, still recently, we had the evidence of how we decided to change the regional directions of the Ministry of Agriculture to the CCDRs (coordination and regional development committees) without involving anyone, without explaining anything to anyone and ending up by saying, when it became clear that the matter was going wrong from the point of view of communication, which after all did not change anything. That is, it was the so-called « 360° turn », something in which, obviously, no one believes and makes no sense. I would therefore like to ask the honourable Member whether this compressor roll and this absolute-majority abuse, which has already occurred in the decision on regional direction, will also occur with regard to PEPAC and whether he knows whether the Government intends to come to this Parliament, finally, what is the strategic objective and what are the conditions for implementing PEPAC. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u344	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u345	Madam President, it is with pleasure that compliance and I hope it will be restored quickly. Mr. João Nicolau, I would like to ask you a few questions and start by saying that the country, which looks at the agricultural world, was startled by the government because the Minister was quick to put the medalist saying that we had an agreement for the CAP and that Portugal had established its policy. But months and months passed and it was understood that this was only for Europeans to see, during the period of the European Semester in which Portugal had the presidency, to have this medallion. As far as real life is concerned, as far as the ground is concerned, as far as the preparation to be made for the next year is concerned, it took time and took time. It was at the end of November, when the strategic choices of farmers were already made, that PEPAC arrived. Thus, strategic choices were made in void, which is one more example of the lack of preparation of this Socialist Party Government. Could this time have served for something new, for a more structured thought? Don't! The CAP has always been one of the main instruments that shaped for decades both society and the capitalist system in Portugal, and with this PEPAC continues to be. the latifundaries, which hold vast areas of land, are guaranteed perpetual income through the CAP. Those who were rich got richer at the expense of subsidies, without giving anything in exchange for society. In the CAP, small farmers and workers were left with only the crumbs. In practice, a permanent mechanism of inequality was created, and this PEPAC does exactly the same, that is, it sharpens inequality. Therefore, in Europe, as in Portugal, 70% of the direct aid for the CAP goes to 7% of farmers. This is what happens here, exacerbating the problem with territorial inequalities and with the lack of support in the interior. What does the Government of the Socialist Party do? It deepens all the evils of the previous model. Despite the green promises, the CAP was pushing a model of agriculture that was incompatible with the climate, with the planet and with the populations. And when we heard, as we did last Friday, the president of the Latifondaires — who so well depicts this caste that lives at the expense of the country — that the workers slaves of the agricultural forces are indeed a contingency in which the real victims are the farmers, it is all said about the model that is truly being sponsored by the CAP. It is inhuman, against the environment and against the planning of the national territory. On this issue, the question I ask is very clear: Mr, how can you say that the agricultural world will get better when small producers will be harmed by these government strategic choices? How can you say that the government has the next agricultural year prepared when, in fact, it is late for the strategic choices of PEPAC? Mr. Deputies, the Earth calls the Socialist Party! It's good that they connect to reality. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u346	To respond to requests for clarification, Mr João Miguel Nicolau has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u347	Madam President, I would like to thank you for your questions. Deputies João Dias, Rui Rocha and Pedro Filipe Soares. I saw that Mr. João Dias was indeed attentive, especially in the matter of small agriculture, as is his panagio, but the talk of the CFP, for a long time, has always been the same as that.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u348	The problems are the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u349	You guys don't solve the problems!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u350	The problem is that the problems are not the same and there is much work done.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u351	Oh, they are, they are!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u352	What's the matter? It was the Socialist Party doing! Who defined the Family Agriculture Statute was a Government of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u353	Go from words to practice!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u354	The Socialist Party was the one who strengthened support for small farmers and family farming. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Who allocated increases in the PDR 2020 notices to small farmers and to the holders of the Family Agriculture Statute was the Socialist Party. Who has now defined for PEPAC the increases in future investment notices for small farmers was the Socialist Party. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] I know that it is difficult for the CFP to assign some good will, some work in this chapter to give small farmers what they deserve, just recognition to small farmers. It's hard, but the reality is that things have changed a lot about 2019 and I remember — and I've been in this House since 2019 — the PCP talk about small farmers is always the same.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u355	The cuts are the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u356	Only the world has moved forward and the government has implemented many measures since that stage. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have increased exports from the agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u357	Just at FarmVille!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u358	The gross value added of the sector has increased, productivity has increased — we have been the fourth country of the European Union with greater productivity in the agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u359	What about competitiveness?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u360	PEPAC serves precisely to place the issues of competitiveness in agricultural activity and investment, it is true, but also from the transition to an increasingly sustainable agriculture, without losing competitiveness. It is summed up in this: more competitiveness, with more sustainability. This is what PEPAC will bring, both large and medium-sized. We both need the small ones as we need the mediums and the great ones, and therefore PEPAC has to have a balanced policy for all, as is the case. That's the one! [[PCP protests.]] It's true! It is a common agricultural policy made for all, small, medium and large.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u361	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u362	Indeed, in this one that is a strategic sector for the country, we must all take into account. There is no country that wants to have a good economic performance that does not have a primary sector with strength, size, scale, to ensure the needs of food supply and, at the same time, more sustainability in the sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u363	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u364	Thank you very much, Madam President, for being well-recovered and well-recovered, we hope so. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The revelation by a consortium of Portuguese journalists of what is, at least, a subculture of hate speech and, more serious and distinct than that, in some cases, from examples of direct threats to the rule of law in security forces, although being a minority phenomenon, but with a worrying dimension, has led our Parliament to hear, yesterday, the Minister of Internal Administration, the Inspector General of Internal Administration (IGAI) and the top leaders of the GNR ( Republican National Guard) and the PSP. This concern of our Parliament is fully justified and we must also recognise, with justice, that it has been shared by all the entities present in the hearings we have held, which have unanimously culminated in the general condemnation of statements coming to the public in the said journalistic investigation. The reason why I chose this issue as the subject of today's political declaration of the Free has, however, to deal with the need for something to be said early and clearly. The seriousness of those statements may not be underestimated, but the extent and nature of the problem are not being taken seriously enough. That is, on the one hand, we can say that there is prejudice in society, in general, and that it also appears in police forces; there is hate speech on social networks and it will also occur on social networks where police and guards are present. We can recognize this, as everyone has acknowledged, and condemn this fact without minimizing it, as it has indeed been done. What we cannot speculate about is that, among this speech, there were also examples of direct threats to the physical integrity and security of sovereignty organs and the press as well, I must point out, including references to the use of ballistic projects, the hiring of professional killers, the carrying out of kidnappings and violations, and I apologize for continuing this list. A phenomenon of this nature not only lacks an investigation by IGAI with the disciplinary dimension to which it can reach, but above all, transparent and speedy criminal investigation. Threats to the rule of law can never be memorized, under the penalty of the rule of law itself, and these threats become, subsequently, more underground and, therefore, more dangerous. The existence of a conspiracy network against the rule of law in Germany has still been revealed today. There were prisons. The subject is not being underestimated, as it should never be. Let us be aware of this example, because great world democracies, decades or centuries of existence, have been confronted with clear threats to the rule of law in recent years. Therefore, the matter can never be devalued. We owe it to our fellow citizens and to all those who expect from the sovereign bodies seriously to face this threat, but I must - in particular - and I would like to stress it - to all the good and excellent PSP agents, the military of the Republican National Guard and, above all, to those who have denounced and helped to denounce this situation, thus proving the loyalty, honour and republican sense of these security forces as a whole. But for some reason we should ask ourselves: why did these officers of the Public Security Police and the GNR military, who helped denounce these cases, do so directly through the press? It was certainly because they were not sure, they did not have absolute confidence that this situation would not be devalued by the internal mechanisms at their disposal. This must, of course, concern us, make us assume the responsibility that, since these police officers and guards have launched this debate in public, we will not fail them, because a rule of law which does not comply with it will not be respected. And I fear that this case is being devalued, because they say that there is no evidence of conspiracy, organization or coordination, they excuse themselves to seek, to investigate whether these same clues can be found or not, i.e. they are waiting for them to appear alone to, however, follow a path of mere disciplinary inquiry which will subsequently result in some days of suspension or in some fines in terms of wages. That would be a tremendous disunity with the responsibility that all of us have to bear. That's what I always wanted to say here today. I would like to say that early and clearly, hoping that this Parliament, the government and all the sovereign bodies will prove to be too pessimistic. I ask you to prove to all our citizens and, in particular, to the courageous security forces officers who have helped to report this case, that this threat will not be underestimated in Portugal, as it is not being underestimated in other countries.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u365	The honourable Member has three requests for clarification, to which I believe he will answer in a bloc. To make the first request for clarification, I give the floor to Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u366	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr Rui Tavares for bringing this issue to debate. In fact, we are very concerned about this, and we also ask for clarification, a part of which still goes through yesterday. The situation is indeed serious: it is the involvement of PSP and GNR elements in practices of the order of incitement to violence or racist and xenophobic hatred, violators of the most basic constitutional values. However, in our view, this cannot mean, at any time, that it confuses the part with the whole. This must be said and a fair distinction must be made between the hundreds of elements of the security forces involved in this case and all the thousands of elements that honour the burden every day and that respect and contribute to our defence and to the affirmation of democratic and solidarity values. But what has been made public deserves, indeed, a great concern for this Parliament, for what these contents mean and reveal, of infiltration of this kind of anti-democratic conceptions in the security forces, by the number of elements involved, by the image it transmits, and which reads the institutions themselves, and also - and, during the hearings that have been made, this has become clearer - because we do not believe that there is indeed an assumption of responsibilities, when we know that these situations are not new and, even, several warnings have been made to the government over the years. We are concerned that the highest leaders say that there are sufficient mechanisms and appropriate plans—and all the more—and yet something has gone wrong. It is better to face reality, otherwise to so many, it seems that what we're saying is that reality is that it's wrong, when usually the political options are wrong. Therefore, Mr Rui Tavares, I would like to ask you some questions and start by asking you whether, like the CFP, you also think that the fact that some elements follow a path of denunciation, outside the institution, to provide this information may mean that you do not feel comfortable to do so within your own institutions, which is also revealing. I would also like to know if it is understood, as well as the CFP, that practical, follow-up and training measures are necessary or, for example, greater rotation in teams, and the ability to do so, especially when one perceives or knows that there is a risk of developing such unacceptable situations. Finally, to conclude, I ask you if you do not think that what definitely does not help the general well-being of the security forces is the lack of availability which the Government demonstrates to listen to what is said and to seriously reflect on the matter, to think of solutions and also to think of a fundamental element, which is that of valorization, to start by valuing the wage of the police condition. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u367	For a request for clarification, Mr Paulo Araújo Correia, of the PS Parliamentary Group, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u368	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rui Tavares, for the Socialist Party there are two things that are very clear: the first is that, to confirm the signs - and it is evidence that we are talking about - coming to the public, following the journalistic work, these are extremely serious and we are very concerned about. And it was in the light of this gravity that the Minister of Internal Administration immediately determined the General Inspection of Internal Administration to open the corresponding investigation, which classified it as prompt and urgent, which means that it does not have to be waiting for the conclusion of the other investigations—it is a priority inquiry—to ensure that the General Inspection of Internal Administration, with the urgency, rigor and speed possible, assess all the facts and propose decisions. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] The second thing which, for us, is also very clear is the following: this behaviour, of a minority — that is what we are talking about, of a minority — cannot, however noisy it may be, compromise the inexhaustible work of the security forces and services, which are also responsible for the performance of their work and for their dedication, by Portugal being, to this day, one of the safest countries in the world. Those who say so are the successive RASI (annual internal security report) and also all the international reports on this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This minority cannot compromise the bond of trust that has been established between security forces and services and the Portuguese people over decades. This bond of trust is well reflected in OECD reports, which testify that around 80% of the Portuguese population trusts men and women of the security forces and services. There are two ways of valuing and protecting this bond of trust.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u369	It was to give them what they deserved!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u370	The first is to wait for the investigation of the Inspectorate General of Internal Administration and the investigation of the Attorney General's Office itself, not drawing hasty conclusions. The second is, recognizing the difficulty of the work of men and women of the security forces and services, to continue the way of appreciation which the Government of the Republic has been doing over the past few years. For example, we talked about the biggest wage increase in the decade — they heard well! — the largest wage increase of the decade in the basic wages of men and women of the security forces and services. We are also talking about the money channelled to housing through the Recovery and Resilence Plan ( PRR ) with the programme that was still approved today in the Council of Ministers, which will make it possible to provide more than EUR 20 million for the immediate acquisition of housing, which will be immediately made available to the security forces and services. For all this, Mr Rui Tavares, the question I ask you is whether you recognise this work done by the Government of the Republic, of valorising the police condition, of valuing the attractiveness of careers, but also whether you recognize the importance of treating this subject with rigour and care, not compromising this bond of trust between men and women of the security forces and services and the Portuguese people,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u371	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u372	...which is absolutely essential to the proper functioning of a democratic rule of law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u373	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u374	Mr President, Mr Rui Tavares, I welcome you for your intervention and for the subject which brought the debate. Based on the auditions we had yesterday, I'd like to ask you two very direct questions. The first question has to do with the assurance given to us by all the leaders of the security forces that we do not see in Portugal any kind of increase in the presence of extreme right forces in the security forces. in this sense, I ask you: were you satisfied and rested with this answer? I have not stayed and I do not think that there is an increase in extremism in other countries, and in Portugal there can be an island, in society, which are the security forces, when, in fact, there are data that should give us great concern about the matter. The second question is: do you consider, as was said yesterday by Superintendent Magina da Silva, that you should condemn, in the same way, the discourse, thought and hate actions practiced by the police and the discourse, thought and hate actions practiced against the police? It is that, despite condemning the speeches, thoughts and hate actions against the police, we cannot believe that a citizen and a police officer or a guard have the same responsibilities before the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u375	Look now! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u376	It's just that some people have the right to carry a gun,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u377	What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u378	... some are state agents and have the responsibility that society recognizes them. Both have laws and obligations, both are punishable before the law, but the requirement must be very direct in relation to those who represent us all, directly. From that point of view, this answer seemed to me to be misleading and I would like to know what the honourable Member thinks about it. Finally, we have at various times been given several safeguards and guarantees that training — whether initial or career-long — was sufficient and met the challenges. in this sense, I ask you, too, whether the cases that have come to light show that this training is, in fact, appropriate to the moment we live. Finally, and to make it clear, I would also like to say that we do not "take the tree by the forest", nor do we take these particular cases as a whole. And we well preserved that there were several security officers and agents who, along with journalists, denounced colleagues, because they thought they were not in time to wear the burden. We therefore condemn those who attack the dignity and credibility of security forces, but we know that there are those who respect security forces and defend their credibility and dignity. Having said this, what we want is, in fact, to have a healthier, more capable society with security forces in which we can trust and guarantee the security we need.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u379	To reply, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u380	Madam President, I would like to thank all the questions asked by the honourable Members and by the honourable Members. Members, all of them, serious and important, revealing the seriousness with which we must deal with this case. I accompany Mrs Alma Rivera when she says that we should not confuse the whole and the best way not to confuse the whole is to be on the side of the police who were on the side of the rule of law and fundamental rights. For these and these police officers and guards, we must accept the burden of responsibility that they have made us and not let the complaints they have presented fall into pieces. This is the best way to preserve the dignity of the security forces. Of course, practical measures to improve the police condition are very important, but we must make a very clear gap between the various situations. All that we can do at this level, we must do - as we should also invest - as Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has already asked - in training, and the Book has several times put forward proposals on training in human rights,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u381	Did you present where? It's just, here, I haven't seen anything about it yet! It must be at home, friends! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u382	... but let's not confuse things: nobody needs better conditions or better training to know that you should not go to a forum to call for hiring professional killers to kill politicians. This is a line that will be frank and that, if we do not take it seriously, we will obviously be talking about a completely different dimension. What we should do is, precisely, separate all the officials from the authority who need to improve their conditions, while we isolate all those who are not up to their responsibilities. to Mr. Paulo Araújo Correia, I must say that I do not rest but follow the path of the IGAI investigation, from the very outset because the judicial police are being forgotten. It is that the Judiciary Police has competence, through its National Counter-Terrorism Unit, to monitor platforms and social networks. It is also the Judicial Police that is our point of contact in this regard with the European authorities. And we know that, in this situation, comparative cases are very important, because what is happening in Portugal is also happening in other countries and cannot be understood out of date. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, I wonder if there is an equivalence between hate crimes, on the part of those who represent the State and those who do not represent it. I believe that we can answer this question with an analogy: we, ladies and gentlemen, if we leave the Assembly of the Republic and our citizens insult us, question us, criticize us, that is part of the work we are doing and we know that this is natural. However, if we insult, criticize and offend a citizen out there, we will not be up to what we must represent, when we occupy a political position, by democratic mandate. The same is said of all institutions representing the State, including police forces. Therefore, a police officer must always have the notion that the degree of demand is greater, as is also the case with us, as Members. Of course, Mr President, this is the way I think we should interpret these different responsibilities, and I follow them. Neither did I rest with the answer that there was no « extremisation ». Why? Because I did not see a willingness by the top management of the PSP and the GNR, or the government itself, to investigate whether such extremization exists. In other words, we cannot rest and cross our arms, in view of the statement that « so far, I have no clue», because what can happen to us is that, despite everything that has been discovered now, it may soon be hidden in a more underground, more dangerous way and then in a more « extremised way». There is generally no second or third opportunity for the rule of law to enforce respect for its own values. Therefore, or these threats are addressed very seriously, from the outset—that is what international experience teaches us—or, then, we will be failing those who have denounced. In fact, in this respect, and very important, I would like to say that I hope that there is no attempt at punishment or moral harassment to the police and guards who denounced this situation. For them, we have the enormous responsibility to preserve the integrity of their careers and their personal security and, therefore, we must be up to this, and I have also decided to make this alert, because I fear that we are not yet up to the responsibility and seriousness of what has happened.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u383	Mrs. Members, we have completed the period for political declarations and will move to the second item on the agenda, which is the debate of the annual report sent by the Government, on Portugal's participation in the process of building the European Union [ under Article 4(1) ( c ). Article 5 ( 4 ) and ( 4 ). the Act of Monitoring, Evaluation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Union construction process ( Law No 43 / 2006 ), which has underlying the assessment of the Draft Resolution No 281 / XV / 1. a ( Committee on European Affairs) — Assessment of the Report on Portugal in the European Union, 2021. I take this opportunity to congratulate the Minister and the Secretary of State for European Affairs, to whom I give the floor immediately.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u384	Madam President, I welcome this return to office, seeing that it is in full recovery, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I also begin to welcome the fact that Évora was today designated as the next European Capital of Culture, in 2027. On the subject that brings us here today, this debate arises with an obvious temporary shift. We will discuss the report on Portugal's participation in the European Union, during the year 2021, but we will do so only at the end of 2022. This is due to the open political crisis, about a year ago, which delayed the parliamentary timetable in several months. But this exercise is so fundamental for the necessary scrutiny, by the Assembly of the Republic, of the action of our country in European matters, which fully justifies its implementation. That is why, and even with all the profound amendments which the year 2022 brought to the global and European political panorama, it is important to detail, analyse and compare views on Portugal's intervention in the European construction process, while at the same time seeking to bring the debate to our day, through some lines of continuity which I will highlight here and which allow to update the elements contained in the report, taking into account the developments or deepenings which certain subjects have had at European level and how our country is currently positioned on them. First of all, I would like to point out that the report is, of course, very focused on the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union, which took place in the first half of 2021. And this retrospective analysis enables us to see how important it has been for Europe to have a Presidency with the right priorities and focused on structural and future solutions. I would like, of course, to point out that in terms of terms guided by an intransigent defence of the European social model and that we have fought for the advancement of social rights at European level. This was, as we know, one of the main priorities of our Presidency, which made it even possible to place the European Pillar of Social Rights at the heart of political debate in the European Union at the highest level. The moment of greatest importance occurred last May at the Social Summit in Porto, where we achieved a historic commitment in this area, signed by all European social partners, the European Parliament, the Council and the European Commission. And more: at this summit, the European leaders have adopted the Port Declaration, dedicated exclusively to social issues, and since then we have been taking decisive steps to achieve the goals that have been set there. From now on, through the implementation of the Action Plan for the European Pillar of Social Rights, which provides for a set of measures, both legislative and non-legislative, aimed at strengthening the level of social protection in Europe, and I would also stress the recent adoption of the Directive on minimum wages. In May of next year, to mark the second anniversary of this important social summit, and again every two years, Portugal will organize the Port Forum, to maintain the social rights of Europeans at the heart of the Union's political agenda, assessing the progress achieved in the meantime and contemplating future developments that deepen and modernize the European social model. Another important result of the Portuguese Presidency was the adoption in the first half of last year of the European Climate Law, which sets a clear and ambitious goal for all Member States : to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050. As an intermediate step, the European Union has committed itself to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55 % by 2030. And, as I have already had the opportunity to report on several occasions in this House, we have been moving forward in the negotiations of the package known as Fit for 55, a comprehensive legislative package, with a wide range of rather demanding measures, regimes and instruments, which will enable us to achieve the rigorous goals that we collectively commit to. In this respect, it is never too much to remember that Portugal has been guided by leadership, at European and even global level, in the process of ecological transition. And it will continue in the front line, never forgetting the need to safeguard the economic and social impacts of this transition, that is, with the concern of leaving no one behind and ensuring that the fight against climate change is done fairly and inclusively. It is precisely because we have invested timelessly in green and clean energy that we present today, before the other Member States, as a country prepared for the future and in better conditions to face the instability and insecurity that is living in access to energy. The war in Ukraine has, as it is known, highlighted the fragility of the European energy sector. But not only does Portugal have the same level of vulnerability and dependence—because it has indigenous and renewable energy sources—as it emerges as an indispensable partner for this sector's redesign, offering solutions that can definitely reform the European energy market. For example, with regard to green hydrogen, the year 2021 placed Portugal as a central player in the IPCEI Hy2Tech ( Important Project of Common European Interest in Hydrogen ). And the proof that this bet was not only successful as a timely one is the centrality of the investments in hydrogen in the context of the REPowerEU programme, as well as the fact that the President of the European Commission announced in September this year the creation of a European hydrogen bank worth EUR 3000 million. Portugal's potential in the production of green hydrogen will put our country at the forefront of the European Union's energy reform. This potential, which is also reinforced with the understanding reached last month, between Portugal, Spain and France, for the creation of a Green Energy Corridor, which will be realized in Alicante within two days. Another main focus of the report we are discussing today is that of the European response to the Covid 19 pandemic. It was in 2021 that vaccination progressed in a general way, and it was crucial to contain the progression of the pandemic and for gradual return to normality. Once again, the European Union has proved decisive in this process: through the joint purchase of vaccines there has been not only a reduction in prices, but also, above all, a fair and balanced distribution of good to all Member States. The success of this operation has enabled us to draw lessons, which we must bear in mind today, when we discuss, for example, the operationalization of a joint European gas acquisition platform. But that was not the only learning we took from the collective response we gave to the pandemic. The approval of the Mechanism for Recovery and Resilience has proved that crises must respond with solidarity rather than austerity. It is precisely for this reason that Portugal continues to defend the need for a permanent mechanism at European level for economic stabilization, with countercyclical effect, to respond to future crises. The good example of the response to the pandemic allows us to be sure that this solution works, which avoids economic fragmentation and ensures a more balanced and fair recovery across the Union. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Last year has been a year in which steps have been taken either by Portugal or by all the Member States, which are essential for consolidating the unity of the European Union. And it was these steps that now allowed us to react to the hardships brought by the unpredictable and unjustified war in Ukraine with firmness, ambition and with the certainty that the European project is all the stronger and more determined we are in a joint response to global challenges. The comprehensive report we are considering here today shows Portugal's commitment to affirming the European spirit and seeking concrete and effective solutions to the real problems that European citizens are facing not only in the cases I have already mentioned, but in many others, as in the first drafts designed so that we can reach a new strategy for the outermost regions or in the reform of the CAP, always with our active, convincing and committed voice. Last year, and especially during our presidency, we continued to consolidate the role of Portugal in the European Union, which often places us as indispensable partners, confident and consensus-makers, as actors and promoters of European progress. We will continue to follow this path in the years that follow. Portugal's commitment to the process — always unfinished — of European construction is greater than ever. In 2021, as in 2022 and in the future, the European Union can count on us, as we expect the European Union to continue the development of the country and improve the living conditions of the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u385	For an intervention, Mr João Paulo Rebelo of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u386	Madam President, I also associate myself with the words which have already been addressed to you and I would like to welcome you in this return, at least sufficiently re-established to be here today, among us, to chair this session. Madam President, Minister of State : It is true, and it has already been said by the Secretary of State that, under normal circumstances, this report would indeed be discussed in the first half of this year, but the fact is that it cannot be this fact either to remove the importance of what is, today, being discussed here, because, in fact, this European Union has proved unequivocally in recent years that its reinforcement is essential for us to respond to the problems that have affected our lives so dramatically. When we discussed this 2021 report, we discussed a year in which the contribution of Portugal, as has already been said by the Secretary of State, was absolutely relevant, given that we chaired the Council in the first half of the year. The Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union was thought, as we know, with the motto: time to act, for a just, green and digital recovery. It was essentially based on three axes defined in the national programme: the promotion of a European recovery leveraged by climate and digital transitions; the realization of the European Union's social pillar, as an essential element in ensuring a fair and inclusive climate and digital transition and also the strengthening of strategic autonomy from a Europe open to the world. On the basis of this national programme, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group believes that the Portuguese Presidency has achieved, and well, the objectives it has proposed and, in certain areas, we are also particularly proud of what we have made, unequivocally, and of the extraordinary contribution we have made to the future of a prosperous Europe and, above all, I stress, based on respect for the dignity of people. I recall here the Port Declaration — the Secretary of State also mentioned it — which was adopted at the informal meeting of leaders and, here I would like to stress, is just the first statement of European leaders... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u387	... exclusively dedicated to the social theme, to which the name of Portugal will always be associated. In fact, it has been, in the past, how it will be, in the future, with the activities around the Port Declaration. It is also worth recalling that it was the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union that fulfilled the mandate of the European Council to agree on the joint sharing of 10 million vaccines to combat covid-19. It is in a social Europe, it is in a solidarity Europe that the Socialist Party sees itself... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u388	...and, therefore, we do not hide pride in the advances made by the Portuguese Presidency in these social areas. Moreover, the solidarity management of the fight against the pandemic and the success achieved in this fight were the clear and unequivocal demonstration of the potentiality and virtuosity of the European Union, when guided by the true humanist principles and values that have presided over its foundation and that can never be forgotten. It is also important to recall the role played by the Portuguese Presidency in the Declaration — Dialogue with citizens for democracy, which was where the Conference on the Future of Europe was born and its goals and governance structure were established. The Portuguese Presidency has put in place an initiative which wants to listen to the citizens, which rightly wants to help create a more involved, more coherent, more just and, of course, more solidarity. But it is clear, Mr Secretary of State, that we have not forgotten the approval and signature of the European Climate Law, the approval and entry into force of the Mechanism for Recovery and Resilience, with Portugal to integrate the group of countries that first delivered their national plans, as we have not forgotten the negotiations with India, the negotiations with Africa, and now also very important the increase of 5, 1 % of the regular transfers from the European Union to our country, Portugal. Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, to conclude, it is clear that all of this happened in 2021 and, of course, the world and particularly Europe have changed a lot since 2021, despite the tension already existing between Russia and Ukraine at the end of the year. The truth is that today we are debating ourselves with an energy, economic crisis, based on an inflationary spiral that afflicts us, but what is essential is to continue to fight for a European Union that actually guarantees the hope of millions and millions of people who, even in recent decades, have seen their lives greatly improved because of this European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u389	You have the floor now, Mrs Cristina Mendes da Silva, also from the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u390	I would like to congratulate you, Madam President, on your return. I would like to congratulate the honourable Members. Members and the Minister and the Secretary of State. Once again, Mr Secretary of State, it must be stressed that the Portuguese Presidency has again marked the European construction process very positively and has responded to the very demanding challenges faced. And allow me, Mr Secretary of State, to highlight here again the realization of the social pillar of the European Union, an undeniable symbol of the Portuguese Presidency 2021. We therefore stress that, under the leadership of the Portuguese Presidency, it was possible to carry out the Social Summit of Porto, where the social commitment that made history was signed, involving everyone in a common objective. The action plan presented by the European Commission, within the framework of this commitment, aims to achieve, by 2030, more employment, more training and the reduction of the number of people at risk of poverty and exclusion at European level. Here I highlight the 5 million children, in the clear objective of breaking cycles of generational poverty. The elimination of child poverty is undoubtedly one of the trademarks of the Portuguese Presidency of 2021. In addition to these three goals, priorities such as equal opportunities and access to the labour market, fair working conditions, social protection and inclusion are also part of the commitment. And, with regard to employment, the European Pillar of Social Rights sets targets for safe, adaptable employment, with fair wages, with a balance between working life and private life. Here too, the work done by the Portuguese Government, within the framework of the Agenda for Dignified Work, is an important contribution to achieving these objectives. As well as social protection and the right to inclusion, it would highlight the work of the Government of the Socialist Party in the guarantee for childhood, in the freeness of day care,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u391	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u392	... in the RSI (social income of insertion), in the solidarity complement for the elderly and in the social network program, implemented in all the municipalities of our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u393	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u394	Portugal has social sensitivity and, as Mr. Secretary of State said, will take place in May 2023 the follow-up of the Social Summit of Porto. I therefore ask the Secretary of State what prospects he has in view of the goals, taking into account these last two tragic events in the world: the pandemic and the war caused by Russia against Ukraine, which not only have changed the world, but have also aggravated some of its problems. And stressing once again the importance of the role of Portugal's leadership, with regard to the realization of the political commitment to the implementation of the social pillar, he also asked the Secretary of State, in a way already out of time, as he said, but at the moment we can say how important, with regard to the fight against poverty, the greatest scourge of humanity—that removes one of the fundamental rights enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the right to freedom, because when he is poor, he is not free— if he considers that the European Union can be more ambitious in this field, in the present and in the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u395	Mr José Silvano, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u396	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members : Although late today, this House is presented with the annual report which enables Portugal to identify the degree of participation in the process of European construction and the national impact of these decisions. I shall concentrate my speech, which is divided with my colleague Isabel Meireles, particularly in the chapter on the transposition of directives. Why? Because in this chapter the report is not reassuring or, at least for me, it has not been reassuring. The government admits a deficit in this area — it is true! — 1, 4, while the European goal is 1. This is written there, it's perfectly objective. So, once again, Portugal is below the average; even in this area we are below the European goal, which is an important thing.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u397	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u398	And I am talking about this not because of the value itself, but because the delay has very serious consequences, as we all know, that they range from the harmonisation of State legislation to the damage or not to the guarantee of citizens' freedoms, to the damage to the proper functioning of the internal market and also, often, to the payment of fines and monetary penalties, which are high and sometimes jeopardise the prestige of the country itself, affecting the rights of citizens. This introduction is only used to describe two concrete situations, and it was here that I wanted to arrive. And because it has been much talked about here, by the Socialist Party, the Social Summit of the Port — in fact, it was not only here, it was for months, and almost a whole year, since it lasted until today —...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u399	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u400	...with the importance of the conclusions of this social summit, in the social aspect and in the respect of workers' rights, I bring two concrete situations which do not correspond to the importance of this social summit as regards the transposition of the directives. The first is that there are two directives, in particular, that have not been transposed in a timely manner. And they were not transposed in time, because the government let the deadline pass. One of the directives is on the compatibility of professional life with the family life of workers and another is a guideline of work predictable for workers. So my two questions, clear and objective, are these: why is this delay, when this is, and was, so important to the Socialist Party? Secondly, I wonder what the government is doing to be able to solve this problem quickly because, I know, there are already notifications by the European Commission itself or reasoned resolutions. So I repeat: what is the government planning to do? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u401	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Meireles of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u402	Thank you very much, Madam President, I welcome you back, and I also welcome you, Minister and Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. On 23 November this year, the European Parliament adopted an extremely important resolution, which recognises Russia as a sponsor of terrorism and as a State that uses the means of terrorism. It seemed clear to us that you approved it. However, extraordinaryly, there were four Members of the European Socialist Party who abstained — Members Maria Manuel Leitão Marques, Margarida Marques, Isabel Santos, Isabel Carvalhais —, diverging from the majority. We do not understand this abstention, we really consider it a scandal. I would like it to be explained by the Government how nearly half of the Portuguese Socialists' parliamentary group abstained in such a fundamental and important resolution. This abstention is scandalous because in this resolution Russia is considered to have deliberate intentions for the physical destruction of civilian infrastructure and mass murder of the Ukrainian people. This abstention is scandalous, because in this resolution thousands of civilians are remembered, who have been slaughtered, children who have been killed, sexually abused, tortured, kidnapped. This abstention is scandalous, because numerous human rights groups and international organizations have thoroughly documented these atrocities. [[PS protests.]] This abstention is scandalous because 40,000 war crimes are planned. The horror that Russia inflicts on a sovereign country is totally condemned, the only fault of which was to pursue a democratic and European destiny. And therefore there is no justification for this abstention from the four Members of the European Parliament, especially when Socialist Isabel Santos points out, and I quote, that the resolution follows the political line set by the right in the European Parliament. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen: In times of war there is no left or right, yes, there are defenders, or not, of this war of aggression against Ukraine. In fact, the barbarity we have seen overlaps with any argument that has been made by the four Members and raises a question about what they really think of this war of aggression, war which threatens not only European security, but also the Ukrainian people, who are also waging a battle for all of us Europeans. A very simple question, addressed to the Secretary of State: what comments does this point to you from the four Socialist Euro MPs, your comrades, with regard to this resolution of the European Parliament, who unequivocally recognise Russia as a sponsor of terrorism? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u403	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Nunes, of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u404	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs. Members: Today, neither we nor the country are guilty of the delay, caused by the left and the extreme left, which has caused this report to be so late for this debate. And we cannot now use it to say: 'Well, let's focus little on the report; as it is already out of date, let's talk from here to the front'. No, no! Let's go back! Let's go back there,
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u405	You want everything back!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u406	... because, when we look at the report—and even at the opinion that it was then issued— we realize that the report read and explained by Mr. Secretary of State, here in plenary, is something brilliant and that the participation of Portugal was something brilliant, was very good, but, as our leader used to say, quoting children, « only not». In detail, considering what is in the report, in its more than 450 pages, one of the issues that concerns us — which has already been mentioned by the Democratic Social Party — has to do with not only the delays in the transpositions of the directives, but also with the subservience that happens, often by the Government, in the way we have managed these issues. And we can start with that part that is in the report on digitisation and the very important steps taken during the Portuguese Presidency. But we realize that after that — and that Mr State Secretary has not spoken — we have had the problem of metadata, which has even made the Socialist Party come to assume that it is even important to make the constitutional review that, less than a year ago, said it is not worth it, but now, because of the metadata, it can already be done. And on this issue of VV digitization. They don't want to talk. But, however, we are talking about another very important point in the report, which is the issue of transparency, and here we are going to talk about what the vaccine contracts were. On March 2, 2020, we had the first case of cowardice in Portugal at the time the Socialist Party Government said: « This is not enough here. » The story has come, we have talked about it several times. On 9 December 2020, the first contract was signed between DGS ( Directorate-General for Health ) and Pfizer, worth EUR 54 million. It is published on Base.Gov portal. On 18 January 2021, the second contract between DGS and Pfizer was signed at EUR 34 million. That is to say, in a little more than one month, the Portuguese Government is responsible, with almost EUR 90 million, under what is also described in this report as an international and European partnership and cohesion, which would call for an international purchase. Interestingly, this international purchase is under investigation by all European authorities. We have a situation in which, as transparency is involved in the report, we would like to see that, with regard to contracts made available on the transparency portal of the European Parliament,... The speaker displayed the document he mentioned. ...you, as a government, would allow them not to be trumped and transparency to take place. It is that these contracts with Pfizer, which are under investigation, are about EUR 100 million and give rise, including, to, each Portuguese, by the amount of vaccines we bought, can lead to the ninth dose. So let us not forget the period of cover, neither transparency, nor European cohesion, nor anything, and let us pull the conversation and the tape back and try to realize the importance that transparency has had during this process in the last year. This report before us also has very specific situations with regard to asylum and emigration. And when we look at these documents, we clearly see — now, with the availability of the report — what the Socialist Party is doing here, when it adopts a series of legislation in which it puts our nationality on sale: it is fulfilling a budget that has been agreed upon in the European Parliament. And we in the national Parliament are once again trying to demonstrate, out there, that we are good students. I have already talked about the issue of digitisation, but the funny thing is that the Secretary of State comes here today, with that phrase that he uses so much when discussing with me here, in Parliament, he says that he already knows the strategy we use and that he knows that we have seen a logic of discredit. The question is that, this time, those who also severely criticize the Portuguese Presidency, and the way in which the entire Portuguese Presidency has been agileized, is Ana Gomes himself and also Mrs Isabel Meireles or even the Director-General of Concordia Europe. So this 455-page report does not pass...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u407	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u408	In conclusion, Madam President. As I said, this report does not go beyond an empty set of words. In fact, we have once again left aside a time that would be important to combat the economic crisis. None of this was therefore a presidency of shame. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u409	Mr Bernardo Blanco, of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u410	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: First of all, I should like to thank the services for their work in drawing up this extensive report, but unfortunately I have to say that we will not be able to follow up the favorable vote on the final draft resolution, because for those who read this report, it seems that the government has done everything right and nothing wrong. A first point, already mentioned twice: in relation to the directives, Portugal is currently the third worst place in relation to actions for non-compliance, for infringement of European law in the last two decades, and one of the main reasons for taking up this podium is the incorrect transposition of directives. In fact, this is not of course not yet in the 2021 report, but next year I hope that it will be because we have already been condemned by the Court of Justice of the European Union this year. It would therefore be important for the Assembly of the Republic to always have access, in all directives, to the transposition tables. At present, we do not have, but I think it would be important, for ourselves, to make this comparison, to have access to the service transposition tables. That is what we shall shortly propose. But let's go for points, following up to the logic that the Socialist Party used here. As regards resilient Europe, the report, as has already been said, says little about our delays in implementing the directives. It is also forgotten to mention the pandemic, which, not only in Portugal but also in other countries, several restrictions were then considered unconstitutional. And for example, the Transparency Entity is not even mentioned, and we are already, except error, five years ago to implement it. As far as green Europe is concerned, there is nothing about the numerous alerts of European entities on our worst waste management or our very low recycling rates. The PS Government continues to be unable to solve the problem. With regard to digital Europe, which was still being discussed here, the PS has been promising a new information and organisation system for six years and has failed nothing in six years. We continue to hire public servants, but services are in the same, and without data there is no good management. As regards social Europe — the fourth point — Portugal has 2 million poor people, 4 million on the way to poverty, and the report says nothing about that. There is also nothing in the report about the continuing delays in implementing the funds. In fact, probably the most social thing the Portuguese Presidency has done — and it has begun very badly — was to appear in the international headlines saying that we had spent hundreds of thousands of euros on present social events that had not even happened. The Portuguese Presidency has started relatively badly and has not been better. With regard to global Europe, the report also does not mention that the PS Government is the only one in Europe next to China and that it has not yet suspended the extradition agreement with Hong Kong. Unfortunately, for the year this will have to be included in the report, because the report is about this year; but it may well be that in the next 2023, the government is happy to change its position and that is no longer there. That is why anyone reading this report thinks that Portugal is very good. And what I conclude from this is that Portugal is very good for the other countries, because we really send our best young people to the other countries. The PS is the best friend of the governments of Germany, England, Switzerland, because we are 20 years old paying education—and well—of our young people and then, with a high-tax and low-wage economy, we send our young people to work, generate wealth in another country, contribute to the social security of another country, to have children in another country. This immigration statistics — Portugal in the European Union — is also not in the report and Portugal today has 20 % of the population emigrants, is the country of the European Union, in proportion, with more people living outside the country, with more migrants. You may remember, in the next report, that you should be drawing up, putting this there. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u411	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u412	Madam President, welcome back, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: For the necessary balance sheet of Portugal's participation in the European Union in 2021, the CFP highlights and highlights several elements. The Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union was an opportunity for Portugal to place on the agenda of the debate the need for another direction, in order to overcome structural deficits, in order to restore productive capacity, in order to raise the living conditions of workers and peoples, by valuing their wages, respecting, protecting and raising their rights; another direction that would assume — and assume — the defence of democracy, that is, economic, social, political, cultural rights and the sovereignty of each people. This was not the option of the PS Government, which had essentially preferred to pursue the objectives of deepening the process of European capitalist integration and its pillars and instruments of domain, at the service of European powers and transnational capital, with the convergence in the social rights, of course. Within the framework of the multiannual financial framework ( FIF ), a framework of significant constraints on the use of funds has been confirmed. Moreover, the Government has concluded that the mobilisation of these funds is subordinated to the rules of macroeconomic conditionality and the structural reforms which are being imposed on Portugal, interfering with the development options and hindering the necessary response to the problems of the country. Now, when the QFP had unacceptable cuts, from the outset in cohesion policies, the response pointed out by the European Union was a recovery fund. hence the PRR, which still has small letters in the invoice. And what do they say? That a loan made by the European Commission will have to be reimbursed; increases in State shares or, more likely, substantial cuts in future money; in addition to blackmail which soon appeared on the so-called 'own resources' ; and European taxes in the framework of the tax union project, with more and more important components of national sovereignty to be alienated. The year 2021 was further marked by the context of combatting the epidemic of covid-19. For the laboratories the balance sheet was largely positive, subsidized which was in billions of euros for the research, production and development of vaccines. The European Union has abdicated any property rights on the invention which it has financed, literally, half a dozen multinationals, and at the same time has been against the lifting of patents from the vaccines of covid-19, proposed by India and South Africa and supported by more than one hundred countries in the WTO ( World Trade Organisation ), responding to the call from WHO ( World Health Organization ). It was the year of the proclamation of the so-called 'European Health Union', or European health market, not for the necessary strengthening of public health services, but to open up to projects to liberalise, privatize and concentrate this sector. It was, in fact, an exceptional moment to advance more than ever in the options of always. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, in 2021, once again made it clear that the European Union, its options and its impositions are truly part of the problem rather than the solution for the peoples, particularly for the Portuguese people. What is required is a breakdown in the face of these options and the construction of a true alternative that defends the development and sovereignty of the country, which is in fact at the service of workers and peoples, which points to ways of mutual respect, cooperation, solidarity and peace. It is in this way and it is in this alternative that the PCP is committed. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u413	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u414	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about the distance between people and politics, especially European politics, this is why people turn away from European politics: the 'Europeans' has become an ally of terms that nobody understands well, of proclamations that everyone knows are too far from reality, from propaganda, from bureaucracy, but very little concrete and very little that people feel. The Socialist Party's Member spoke to us here in a social and solidarity Europe, and I also spoke to him in addition to the propaganda and the jokes we have already known — I did the same exercise as you did and I thought that Europe was 2021 and 2022. It was Europe that prevented the lifting of patents and condemned the poorest countries to the greed of pharmaceuticals — this is the social and solidarity Europe that you spoke about. It was Europe that strengthened military control of its borders and made agreements with Libya to retain refugees in genuine concentration camps. And when we talk about violence against children in Ukraine because of the Russian invasion—and well— do we forget about violence against children in refugee camps, rapes, attacks on women's rights in refugee camps? Oh, my God! They don't count for anything, are they human beings? Oh, my God! We have humanized the victims of the war of Ukraine, but we have removed the refugees who remain at the borders of the European Union, with the European Union paying then to Turkey and Libya, as if nothing interested. Social and solidarity Europe is Europe that allows Turkey to be a mediator between Ukraine and Russia and that trades Finland's entry into NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ) for the lives of Kurdish refugees. This is the solidarity Europe we are talking about, which gives the life of Kurdish refugees who have fought for freedom against the Taliban of Turkey? Oh, my God! Is that the solidarity of this Europe? Oh, my God! A Europe that gave up having a role in global geopolitics, which has given itself to the geopolitical designs of the United States of America, which today serves the designs of the geopolitical interests of the United States of America without having a voice of its own in the construction of peace and an alternative at European level. Is the social and solidarity Europe the same Europe as the government invokes, when it says that it cannot lower the VAT on electricity, even if people do not have money to pay and heat their homes? Oh, my God! Is the social and solidarity Europe what the Government calls for to say that it cannot change the labour law of the troika and that the Portuguese are condemned to precariousness and labour rules that deliver them to low wages? Oh, my God! Is that the social and solidarity Europe? Oh, my God! Or is Europe forcing the dismantling of TAP (Portuguese Air Transport) and the resignation of thousands of workers, turning our airline into a small company on the edge of inability? Oh, my God! Is that the social and solidarity Europe we are talking about? Oh, my God! The social and solidarity Europe that cares about the environment is the same Europe that is discussing deficit and debt reduction rules that prevent us from having the changes that we need to have in order to have a climate transition, to structurally change our transport systems, to structurally change the energy efficiency of housing. Is this the solidarity Europe we are talking about? Oh, my God! We are talking about Europe which is currently liberalising the capital market with a capital union? Oh, my God! It is that we are always in two parallel areas: in terms of the promotion of European solidarity and in terms of the concrete action of European policy. I do not know, and I have many doubts, whether the European Union has ever been anything but a commercial project and the withdrawal of economic borders and financial borders. I do not know if it has ever been a project of solidarity and justice, but I know what the European Union is becoming, or what it is right now: a project of self-preservation of a technocratic machine of systematic application of a liberal programme in European countries.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u415	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u416	And what we have to regret is that the Socialist Party today is just a critical spokesman for this program. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u417	For an intervention, Mrs Inês Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u418	Mr President, I would like to begin by welcoming you and noting that you are, in fact, re-established, hoping that, of course, you have surpassed the situation that happened. Mrs. Minister, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: With regard to this report, I would like to point out that the year of 2021 was a very complex year, but we must not fail to point out that it was also a year of opportunity for the PRR, which brings with it Community funds which are absolutely essential for combating climate change. Recently, Mr. Secretary of State spoke of the Fit for 55 package, however, left out what Portugal has lost in terms of opportunity. It is that, despite the PRR and international and European commitments, we continue to see a government relegating water efficiency to the background; we continue to see a bet from the PRR point of view, which leaves out the country's adaptation to climate change, when we know that Portugal will be of the countries most affected by the climate crisis. More: the European Climate Law itself, which is a very important step in the Member States' climate compromise, does not, within its doors, translate into compliance with the creation of, for example, the climate action council, which remains in the drawer. In addition, we must not forget that the year under the European Presidency was the year of the revision of the Official Animal Controls Directive exported to third countries. This is a scourge, from the point of view of animal welfare, to which the Member States continue to close their eyes. We still have animals exported as if they were merchandise. And instead of taking advantage of the opportunity to review this portal, it was only about digitising veterinary data, losing a unique opportunity to end, once and for all, not only with the transport of live animals, but also, for example, with a view to ensuring a more animal welfare treatment within the framework of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Nor can we forget — to conclude — the repeated violations of human rights by China, particularly with regard to the Uighur people. And yet, instead of taking advantage of, for example, putting other rules from the point of view of trade that respect human rights, this was also a missed opportunity. But because not everything is negative, we end up with a positive note: in 2021, decisive steps have been taken to combat tax havens and tax evasion, but the path ahead is still long and we hope that there will be a greater commitment, in fact, forward to these matters.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u419	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u420	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In these debates on the European Union, we often have a Manichaean vision. On the one hand, an acrylic attitude towards Europe, on the other hand, an attitude in which Europe is presented as a grotesque caricature of something that does everything wrong and does nothing good. We're talking about 2021. This is the year the report refers to. It was the year of the Portuguese Presidency and also a year of pandemic, and I remember what was written about the European Union a year earlier: it was that the European Union would end, that the pandemic would end with the Schengen area and end with freedom of movement and that Europe would not be able to react to the pandemic. We saw a Europe which in 2021 did not — and still does not — have in the treaties competences in the area of response to pandemics and transnational public health issues, after all had a programme for the purchase of vaccines and the offer of vaccines to countries around the world, when very advanced federations, which sometimes appear as sovereign states, such as Brazil, for example — had federal states, like the State of São Paulo, to buy vaccines only for themselves...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u421	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u422	...and other states not buying vaccines.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u423	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u424	So this Europe, in spite of everything, moves — real Europe, what exists, not caricatures. But this Europe also has problems. Despite some successes that must make us, as Portuguese and Europeans, happy with the Portuguese Presidency at the social summit, precisely in the follow-up to the programme for the purchase of vaccines, there is, in my view, a major failure to bear responsibility in the rule of law situation. Today, we have Europe blocked. Yesterday, Mr. Orbán's Hungary banned a aid package for Ukraine. [[CH protests.]] Yeah, and you know what happened today? Here the bench of the Arrival can 'float the Hungarian pan'. The truth is, yesterday, Mr Orbán banned 18 billion aid to Ukraine because people who are starving and cold in Ukraine don't like to give money, and today the news that it was 320 thousand euros of European funds for his son-in-law. [[CH protests.]] It's the corruption that you're friends there in Hungary. And that's what we have to be against. The Portuguese Government, during the Portuguese Presidency,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u425	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u426	Madam President, I must conclude, it is true, but I would also have helped if there had not been any interruptions. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u427	I'm asking the ladies. Members who create conditions for the speaker to be able to conclude his speech. Mr. Deputy, you can conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u428	Madam President, thank you very much. The Portuguese Government did not initiate Article 7. the, which is in the treaties and must be used, and if it had begun today there would not be this veto to the aid package for Ukraine. The question is: Now that evil is done, how are we going to solve this? There will be a position to 26, outside the treaties — what is obviously not the desirable way of doing things? Is the Portuguese Government going to give in to the money Hungary has currently blocked? Or are we going to maintain firmness in defending the rule of law in Europe? If there is no rule of law in Europe, there will be no future for the European project. [[CH protests and L-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u429	To close this debate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Europe, Mr Antunes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u430	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr João Paulo Rebelo for mentioning the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union in the first half of 2021 and for the various progress made in many areas - not all of them have been listed here, but they are duly documented in the report we are discussing here today - which well illustrates the success that this Presidency has meant. In addition to the social pillar, the social summit, the joint acquisition of vaccines and the covid certificate, which allowed some freedom of movement to be unlocked during the pandemic period, he mentioned the start of the Conference on the Future of Europe. This was something that was blocked and it was indeed with our Presidency that it was able to unlock and that a debate throughout the European Union began on, above all, the progress of an unprecedented exercise of direct listening to the citizens in relation to what they want of the European Union. He highlighted the meaning that this had. Mrs Cristina Mendes da Silva refers in particular to the social pillar and what is being done, both at European and national level. The goals that were set at the Porto summit are very ambitious. The current geopolitical situation as a result of the conflict in Ukraine, the invasion of Ukraine by Russia, will undoubtedly make it difficult to achieve these goals, but in terms of combating poverty, this is not only a European but also a national design. Fortunately we have to note that since 2015 there have been fewer than 430 000 people at risk of poverty or social exclusion in Portugal. This is a number that prides us, but does not rest us, because there is still much more to do in this area, certainly. Mr José Silvano, the report did not arrive late to this House. The report came exactly as soon as it was due. This debate is being held late, as we know, that is, the political crisis and the parliamentary timetables. The report was submitted in due course, as will be the 2022 report. As regards the transposition of directives, this is a design which must unite us — government and assembly — because many of them are legislative competence reserved for the Assembly of the Republic. In fact, I also appeal to the Assembly of the Republic to cooperate actively in meeting these deadlines. As regards the two directives which you are referring to, your transposition is envisaged in the more general package of the Dignified Work Agenda, which is under discussion in this House and which, I believe, will be voted on shortly—and would have been voted much earlier if it had not been the political crisis which, unfortunately, paralyzed the country and paralysed this House for many months. I must therefore regret that these directives are not transposed. The transposition is within the competence of the Assembly of the Republic, only it can do so, and it has not done it sooner for this reason that we all know very well. Mrs. Isabel Meireles, frankly, I deal with the question that Mrs. Meireles here has asked. I don't know what conception you have of the parliamentary mandate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u431	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u432	... but when he asks the Government to explain the way Members vote to the European Parliament, what I can tell him is that I do not determine the way any Member votes to the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u433	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u434	Mrs. Deputy, from time to time, gives us conceptions... At times, we heard her explain that a defeat in the elections was the fault of the Portuguese, that what had failed was the Portuguese. Today we have heard that it is the government that has to explain the way Members vote in the European Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Madam Member, I apologize, but ask the Members how they voted. As far as Russia is concerned, what I can tell you is that the position of the Portuguese Government is a position, obviously reiterated since the invasion in the morning of 24 February, of condemnation of the Russian regime, of condemnation of this aggression, which is unacceptable, of condemnation of war crimes that have occurred and of condemnation of the attack on civilians and essential infrastructures in Ukraine. I have no doubt, and there is no doubt in Portugal about the very clear position that the Portuguese Government has on this matter. Even today, at the Council of Ministers, we have approved EUR 30 million for support for refugees in Ukraine, particularly those in Poland, just for solidarity with those in this difficult situation, as a result of Russia's belligerent attitude. Mr Bruno Nunes, I am sorry to say, but I mix « garlic and lies », because he asks me a number of things and talks about metadata, about the Portuguese Presidency of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u435	You're the only one who knows everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u436	The question about metadata was born of a decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which is an independent body. I know that you have problems with independent bodies. As of the last time I was here, it has been difficult to understand the concept of independence of the European Central Bank. by visas, it is also difficult to understand the concept of independence of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Then tell me about the transparency of vaccine contracts. In fact, this contract that proved to be a contract signed by the European Commission is not a contract of the Government. It wasn't the government that signed. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] [[Protests by members of the CH Bruno Nunes and Pedro dos Santos Frazão.]] Then he says surprising things, such as that of the PS government selling nationality. Sir, I don't even know what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u437	Be serious! I should have quit already!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u438	I think it is a lack of literature, from the outset with regard to the functioning of the European Union, confusing bodies that are independent of others who are dependent and confusing the role of the Government in the Presidency of the Council of the European Union with the work of the European Commission, the Court of Justice or the European Central Bank, which we do not control, we do not intend to control or never control. Mr. Deputies, you're going to be very confused.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u439	You've got a big mess!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u440	Mr Bernardo Blanco also referred to the subject of transposition of directives. You are absolutely right about the usefulness of the transposition tables that make all the sense that they are sent and shared with the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u441	And will they be? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u442	The honourable Member is also making a little confusion. At some point, he mentions the Transparency Entity. As you know, the creation of the Transparency Entity is dependent on the Constitutional Court, not on the government. [[IL and CH protests.]] With regard to the expenditure of the Portuguese Presidency of the European Union, since we are referring to the 2021 report, and what marked Portugal's performance in the European context in 2021 was essentially the Portuguese Presidency, that was a very relevant matter at the time. I am delighted to share with you — if I do not know now — the final report of the mission structure for the Portuguese Presidency, where everything is analysed, everything that has happened, all the meetings, all the expenses and, indeed, that the expenditure was less than 30 % compared to the last presidency. This was when we had set an objective to reduce the Portuguese Presidency's budget by 2021 by 10% compared with the previous presidency. We have not only reduced it by 10 %, as we have exceeded this objective and reduced it by 30 %, Mr. [[IL protests.]] Therefore, for this reason, I think you will be satisfied with this news which I give you. Mr Bruno Dias and Mrs Mariana Mortágua, I believe that there is really no vision here of Portugal's participation or role in the process of building the European Union, but rather a set of references—which are indeed known and historic—of positioning your respective parties as regards the European Union. In fact, we have different views on the usefulness, the interest and the well-foundedness of the European construction process, and we note, as Mr Rui Tavares said, that some manicism in the assessments, with the tendency to all denigrate, to see everything wrong, to always see the lunar side and a total inability to recognize how good it has been done, in particular in the year 2021, which we are discussing today at European level. I am referring, for example, to the joint purchase of vaccines, in a context where the European Union had virtually no competence in health, but in view of the need to respond to European citizens, it has nevertheless advanced with the joint purchase of vaccines. I also remember the creation of the NextGeneration EU and the recovery and resilience fund which for Portugal means a contribution of EUR 16 billion. This is not a small thing!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u443	You have to read the small letters of the invoice!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u444	As far as cohesion funds are concerned, there is a solidarity Europe that has been very advantageous to Portugal, which has helped us to develop in many areas. We must recognise this evidence, recognize the role the European Union has played in the development of Portugal and improve the living conditions of Portuguese people. I sincerely believe that you are a very sectoral vision, very limited of what is the importance of the European Union and what has been our participation in the European construction process over the past few years.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u445	We're ungrateful!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u446	The European Union, fortunately today, goes far beyond a purely mercantile project and has numerous dimensions that we are proud of and have contributed significantly to the social advancement, not only of our country. Mrs Inês Sousa Real, the Member mentioned the Fit for 55 package, in which we are in fact an absolute leadership role at European level in combating climate change. The European Union shows the way and will continue to be. Mr Rui Tavares, if I criticise the inability to see anything good that is in the European project, you will also not see me saying that it is all right and that we agree with everything that is happening at European level.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u447	I'm still saying!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u448	Surely there are failures, sure there are frustrations, sure there are themes we would like to go further, we would like to go faster and we would like to go another way. So, of course, if I get shocked that you see yourself and you stand up just the moon side, I don't just see the sun side. Every day, we are in the Council fighting in matters such as migration policy, for example, for a more humanist and progressive vision. As regards the rule of law, which was the subject which gave rise, and in particular to Hungary — which soon triggered the reaction on the right side of the Hemicycle, very immediate and very revealing —... [[CH protests.]] ... Portugal is from countries, in the Council, that more fight and more fight for the value of the rule of law. As for Hungary, we have several open-ended mechanisms, as you know. We have the mechanism of Article 7. and we have a conditionality mechanism, in which, at the moment, there is a proposal for a suspension of funds on the table. The European Commission will update its assessment of progress in Hungary and, as a result, a decision will be taken which will perfectly culminate in the suspension of funds for failure to comply with the rule of law. Moreover, in the assessment of the Hungarian PRR were included very demanding targets and milestones, in terms of the independence of the judiciary and other dimensions of the rule of law, which will condition the effective disbursement of the money provided for in the PRR. Therefore, by these ways and by these mechanisms, there are several things going on to ensure that the rule of law is respected throughout the Union and, in particular, in Hungary. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-07.u449	I congratulate the Minister and the Secretary of State. We have concluded our agenda. We meet again next Friday at 10 a.m. on the following agenda: the first item is the general debate on the Proposal for a Law No 40 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to review the legislation relating to the activity of collective investment agencies. The second point will focus on Parliamentary Assessment No 2 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) of Decree-Law No 50 -A / 2022 of 25 July, which establishes the remuneration regime of the additional work performed by doctors in emergency services. At the third point, we will generally appreciate Lein. 33 / XV / 1 Projects. a ( CH) — Determines the temporary exemption from IMI payment to the own and permanent housing building during the RPP period, 344 / XV / 1. a ( IL ) — Extends the exemption from municipal tax on Onerous Real Estate Transmissions ( IMT ) to all own and permanent housing acquisitions ( amendment to the Municipal Tax Code on Onerous Real Property Transmissions, as annexed to Decree-Law No 287 / 2003 of 12 November ), 365 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — It extends from 3 to 5 years the period of temporary exemption from IMI for the acquisition of real estate for permanent housing, amending the Statute of Tax Benefits, and 366 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Creates an extraordinary financial support line for housing holders. The fourth point will consist in the overall assessment of Law Projects Nos 62 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Reduce to 35 hours the maximum working time limit for all workers ( 10th amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code ), and 364 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Ensure more rest and leisure time by reducing the maximum limit of the normal working period and the right to 25 working days of vacation in the public and private sectors, in general, and of the Resolution Project No 292 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends the progressive decrease in working hours, with the establishment of 35 hours per week, and the progressive increase in the holiday period, with the immediate institution of 25 days of vacation. I wish everyone a good holiday and a good rest of the day. See you Friday. The session is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 28 minutes.]]
