ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. [[It was 10 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the galleries to the public. Mrs. Members, according to the consensus in the Conference of Leaders, since, in the meantime, the rule declaring the mandatory use of the mask in the interior spaces has been repealed,... [[Congratulations from the CH, IL and from the PS.]] ... the use of the mask also ceases to be compulsory in this plenary, as well as in the other spaces of the Assembly of the Republic. [[Pause.]] The fact that the use of masks is no longer compulsory means that no one is obliged to wear masks, but no one is prevented from using them. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] I give the floor to Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha, Secretary of the Bureau, to proceed with the reading of the dossier. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very good day to all and to all. I will announce that the Bill No. 53 / XV / 1 has been introduced into the Bureau. a ( PSD ) and Resolution Projects 38 / XV / 1. a ( PAN), 39 / XV / 1. a ( PAN), 40 / XV / 1. a ( IL) and 41 / XV / 1. a ( L). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u3	Thank you, Secretary. We can now enter our agenda, the first of which is the discussion of the Bill No. 1 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Consecrates a package of measures, of an extraordinary and temporary nature, to deal with the effects of the increase in fuel prices, together with the Bills Nos 13 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Strategic Plan for National Food Sovereignty, 14 / XV / 1 a ( PCP ) — Approves urgent measures for the production of cereals, 15 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Measures to improve the functioning of the agri-food chain, 16 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Reduce the price of fuels through the level of incorporation of biofuels, 17 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Reduces electricity and gas VAT to the reduced rate of 6 % ( amendment to the value added tax code approved by Decree-Law No 394 - B / 84 of 26 December ), 18 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Set a reference price to combat speculation and reduce fuel and GPL prices, 19 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Extends access to regulated electricity tariff and eliminates its transitional character, 20 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — eliminates the so-called "additional to ISP" and dual taxation of fuels ( VAT on ISP ), 38 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Set an extraordinary discount on the price per litre of fuel, 49 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Reduction of electricity and gas VAT to the reduced rate of 6 % ( amendment to the value added tax code approved by Decree-Law No 394 - B / 84 of 26 December ), 50 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates a cost support measure with gasoline in the activity of small artisanal and coastal fishing ( green gasoline ) and 51 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Reduce taxes on fuels and eliminate double taxation, generally, and with Resolution Projects 9 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Extraordinary scheme of support for coloured diesel and marked in order to restore the price in January 2021 and 31 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Recommends that the Government promote an information campaign to enable end-users to monitor and understand the formation and evolution of fuel prices. To present the bill by the Government, I give the floor to Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs, Antonio Mendonça Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u4	Mr President, this is the first time that I am addressing the Assembly of the Republic in this Parliament, allow me to give you a special compliment and extend it to all Members and all Members. Members of the various parliamentary groups and single Members, doing so with renewed satisfaction that they have also been elected to the electorate of Setúbal, hence to be here with great pleasure. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We present here the Bill No 1 / XV / 1. a It is not by chance that she was the first to be approved by the Government at the first Council of Ministers in which she was able to pass bills, it is not by chance that, in the first plenary where the Assembly of the Republic may be discussing a legislative initiative of the Government, we are discussing this Bill No. 1 / XV / 1. the, in response to the widespread increase in prices, in particular of fuels, where the Government has always acted, from the outset, with a great sense of urgency. We did so in October with the first package of measures, which was reinforced in March, and today, before Parliament, we are creating the conditions for us to have, from a fiscal point of view, an even more aggressive response to compensate for a substantial part of the increase in the price of fuels through a tax breakdown of the ISP (tax on oil and energy products) which would be equivalent to a reduction in the VAT rate (tax on value added) from 23 % to 13 %. It is a measure of greater importance to families and businesses and, by its size, implies a great responsibility for all: families, businesses, the generality of economic operators. Therefore, in this proposal for a law, we have a very specific obligation of periodic disclosure by the regulator of the assessment of the oil margins in each of the fuels so that, with transparency, everyone can monitor the evolution of the prices of fuels, associated with the very sharp tax reduction we make here. We are also in the context of production support measures, putting the VAT rate at zero on certain products important for agricultural production, not withdrawing the capacity to deduct these same farmers. These are, therefore, ladies and gentlemen. Members, measures of the greatest importance that reinforce a framework of measures that the Government has taken with a great sense of urgency and responsibility so that we can respond well to the challenges that lie before us. Of course, I am at the disposal of the Members and the Members. Members for any matter they intend to put forward. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u5	Mr Secretary of State, the Bureau has registered five entries from Members to make requests for clarification. I assume you want to answer in two blocks.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u6	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u7	To submit the first request for clarification, Mr Bruno Dias of the Portuguese Communist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mr Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, this discussion is of the utmost importance and people who face enormous difficulties in their lives demand concrete measures from the political power to respond to this problem of rising cost of living. If, at the level of taxes on these products, there is a debate here which, in fact, is already very old, especially with regard to fuels and energy — a discussion that will still have to be done, because there are measures that continue not to be put into practice by the Government and that we have already been complaining, in particular with regard to the reduction in the tax burden on fuels — there is, however, a problem underlying this whole debate which is truly incontrovertible and which does not find a response in the Government's proposal — namely, there is no answer in any other proposals but in the CFP. — and that has to do with the central issue of price control and combating speculative practices.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u9	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u10	There are those who are making a lot of money with this crisis. There are those who are taking advantage, at the level of the marketing margins and the margins of gross refining, of the appropriation of truly undue added value, of what will then be paid on the invoice by consumers, by the productive sectors, of the real economy of our country. The question therefore arises of the practical effect on the final price of many of these products, in particular fuels, when the free wheel left to economic groups and oil companies to practice prices continues, potentially absorbing, as has already happened, the savings obtained at the level of the tax burden which is diminished. Mr Secretary of State, we have heard about the disclosure of information so that we know, with transparency, what is being done by the oil tankers and I ask you, and everyone in this room, what is the balance sheet that makes those famous self-road plates with the price of fuels.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u11	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u12	This is because, as the other says, "it would laugh if it weren't for crying"! It is therefore necessary to go much further with price control measures and to combat speculation, and this is only done with what the CFP proposes in this debate. The question remains, Mr Secretary of State, about the concrete scope and practical effect of the measures submitted by the Government. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u13	Mr Nuno Fazenda of the Socialist Party has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the first draft law of the Government presented in this Parliament to the Assembly of the Republic. This is an important law which enshrines exceptional measures to deal with the increase in fuel prices. The fact that it is Law No 1 / XV / 1. the symbolises well the priority and sense of urgency that the Government assigns to the answers to the increase in the price of fuels.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u16	On this issue, there are three key points that need to be highlighted. First of all, I highlight the causes. As is known, the increase in energy costs results from a war in Europe, to be more rigorous, a military invasion of the Russian Federation to a sovereign country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u17	That's coming from behind! Let's be serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u18	from Russia, Mrs. Members of the Portuguese Communist Party!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u19	There's seriousness!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u20	The impacts of this war are global. Faced a year ago, the price of oil almost doubled, fixing itself above $100 per barrel.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u21	It's been taller!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u22	These are incomportable increases in oil that require exceptional measures to alleviate families and businesses. This is the second point I want to highlight: the answers.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u23	Petrogal laughs at these numbers!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u24	There are several measures that have been taken. Examples are: suspension of the increase in carbon; flexibility of payments to the State; credit lines; incentives for companies in the most affected sectors or support for the passenger and freight transport sector, with a discount of 30 cents per litre of fuel. Today, we intend to go further. Today, with the approval of this law, the Government is empowered to carry out a very important decrease in fuel prices and recently announced, i.e. a reduction in ISP, equivalent to a reduction in VAT from 23 % to 13 %. This reduction will allow for a reduction of around 52 % of the increase in the price of gasoline and 74 % in the case of the price of gasoline recorded since October 2021.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u26	This is a very important reduction, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. But resources are not unlimited and that is why we must guarantee the future of Portugal in a sustainable way. I now highlight the third and final point: the future. The future concerns the energy transition. If there is anything this crisis has shown, the energy transition must even be continued and accelerated. As you know, Portugal today has 60 % of the electricity produced from renewable energy. If that were not the case, we would have a much more serious situation today, from an energy point of view.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u27	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u28	Therefore, the wager on renewables was, and is, a winning bet and must continue to move forward. And it must continue to move forward for three reasons: because climate change has not been suspended; because it allows to guarantee the country's energy autonomy; and because it allows lower prices for families and businesses in energy terms. It is precisely for this reason, also thinking of the future, that we have today, in the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ), open notices of competitions, such as support for companies for the decarbonization of industry or support for energy efficiency for families, for service companies, for hotels, for restoration, for trade, for IPSS ( private institutions of social solidarity ). They're support to lower the bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u29	Mr President, you have already exceeded your time in more than one minute.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u30	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. It is on these three points — the causes, the answers and the future — that I would like to thank a comment by the Secretary of State, in particular to know how we can combine, from the point of view of energy transition, immediate action with the medium and long-term perspective. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u31	To respond to this first block of requests for clarification, Mr President-in-Office of the Council for Tax Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the questions put forward. Mr Bruno Dias, there really is a sea that separates the conception that the CFP has of what we have about the functioning of the economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u33	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u34	in this particular, he is talking about the need to consider the increase in the price of fuels due to the regulation of prices by the State. You ignore, in your speech — and I think you do so deliberately — the legislative initiatives that have already been adopted in this House. What was approved in this House, in the previous Parliament, was precisely a diploma that allows for the control of the margins. The regulation of its application is in public consultation and I hope that you have had the opportunity to participate in this public consultation, giving your added value, so that you can effectively control the margins. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias and BE MP Mariana Mortágua.]] But in the speech of the honourable Member, I did not understand one thing: it seems to me that the CFP is against the decline in the ISP of fuels in this context.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u35	That's what's missing! It was the PS who voted against what the PCP presented!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u36	I don't know if that's the conclusion I can draw. [[PCP protests.]] That is because the honourable Member has never welcomed the hypothesis here that we can lower taxes on fuels. The only thing that you come here to stress is what the Government has repeatedly emphasized in this House, which is the fact that indirect taxes are certainly not the best way to respond structurally to the increase in prices, precisely because indirect taxes tend to become diluted in what are trade margins. And this is in thesis. That is why — and, Mr Nuno Fazenda, I would like to reply to you — that this measure is absolutely exceptional and absolutely transitional, is a step taken in a very specific context to deal with a very specific situation. And we must be very careful that the taxpayers' efforts — of a very high drop in tax — are not, as is the case in indirect taxes, absorbed by the margins of trade. We therefore have a new obligation of transparency to publish a report that assesses these situations. Therefore, Mr Bruno Dias, he did not have the courage to say it, but I think that he supports the Government's bill. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u37	You'll see!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u38	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, from the Left Block, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State, repeated several times in his initial speech « it is not by chance ». It was not by chance that this was the first legislative initiative of the Government; it was not by any chance that the Government legislated this immediately at the first Council of Ministers it could do. I ask you, then, if it is not by chance also that the Government has, since October, by the hand of this House of the Republic, the ability to act on the fuel price margins and if it is not by chance that it still lasts — it still lasts more than half a year later — a public consultation that ends only next month. And let's hope it's over next month. Isn't it just by chance, Mr. Secretary of State? It just seems to us that it's not really by chance. It is that the government does not really want to move on the fuel banks. Let us see what the Socialist Party said a little while ago on this subject. It seems that, for the PS, the great increase in fuel only took place two months ago, since the Russian invasion of Ukraine,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u40	I heard it and I didn't believe it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u41	... when in the whole economy—in the whole economy—for more than a year there had been complaints of the brutal increase in the price of fuels. Isn't it just by chance, Mr. Secretary of State? It shouldn't be by chance. I think that's the big difference. currently, in the legislative initiatives on the table, there is no doubt whether or not you want to lower the prices of taxes on fuels. There's no doubt about it. The doubt is that who even wants to lower the prices of taxes or who wants to drop just a little bit, to realize that there is no big increase, a great weight in the economy, which stems from this brutal factor that is fuel, which is the price of energy, and who thinks — and that is a great difference that we have to right, but apparently also to the government — that the abusive price is only on the side of taxes. And when Galp shows millions of profits, hundreds of millions, beats records to their profits, there's no problem there! It's just that we've heard. They told us two years ago on the side of the big oil mills: "Well, we can no longer lower the margins, because the fixed costs are abusive. We sell less fuel, but we have to keep the bombs open, we have a set of expenses to keep. And so the margins are even abusive, but we can't get them down. » And the government ate and shut up. We have now come to the conclusion that, in fact, there is no explanation for continuing to have abusive margins. And what do we see? That's why the government doesn't say anything about it. He's going to study! It is typical of this country: when you don't want to do anything, you will study, you make a report, you create up to a working group. Well, Mr. Secretary of State, that practice we already know. It is a tactic spent that results in nothing and the only thing that has as relevant consequence is that it pushes forward further. Until then, we still have abusive prices in the economy in fuels, in energy, in large distribution. And on margins, on abuses, on speculation, what the government says is: zero. He's going to study. Tells us that ERSE (Energy Services Regulatory Entity) is going to study. And I ask, Mr. Secretary of State: but did ERSE not have time to study? Has the government not yet had time to tell ERSE that ERSE should study? Six months later, more than six months after having in hand a weapon that was requested by the Government, given by the Assembly of the Republic, to act on the fuel price margins, the only thing we see to increase are the margins, the only thing we see to increase is speculation and abuse of large economic groups. And the only thing we see that doesn't change is the government's inaction on this. Mr Secretary of State, what I have to ask very directly is whether the government will accept, impatience and serene, that there will continue to be this theft of the country's economy, this theft of families from the huge speculation of both the prices of fuel, energy prices and the prices of the large distribution. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u42	Mr Ivan Gonçalves of the Socialist Party has the floor for a request for clarification. [[Pause.]] He doesn't want to use the word. Then Mr Francisco Rocha of the Socialist Party has the floor. [[Pause.]] He doesn't want to either. After all, Mr. Secretary of State, you have only one request for clarification in this round. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u43	But I appreciate the individualised answer! I appreciate the deference!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u44	Mr President, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, your speech does not really scare me, because it is not new. It is not new that the Left Block never looks at reality, but only for what is a virtual reality that eventually interests you to make some inflamed speeches here. But, Mr President, no, we do not separate ourselves from any attempt to let the market freely win this situation. What we want to avoid is even that the margins of the gas stations can absorb what is the effort of the Portuguese with the low tax such as the ISP. That is what we are trying to avoid with two instruments: the one which, as you have pointed out, has been approved by the Government here in October and this one which we have proposed here, in order to be transparently advertised so that the honourable Member, so that I, so that any Portuguese can make a rigorous assessment of the development of the margins on each of the fuels. But, Mr President, if we do not separate this desire to have the tax reduced by the price paid by people, there is one thing that separates us: it is that we do not have a totalitarian conception of the state. And regulatory entities are independent of the government, Mr. Therefore, the Government has done its work and has submitted a bill to the Assembly of the Republic and the regulatory authority has made the regulation in public consultation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u45	Over six months!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u46	I really hope that Mr and the Left Block have already participated in this public consultation process and given its added value so that this regulation can, as quickly as possible, enter into force and we will effectively control the margins. Mr President, there is also a lack of truth in your speech. We have to look at how our tax system is paying today. The honourable Member cannot ignore — in fact, he took part, as I participated in the previous Parliament, with very significant changes to the structure of the IRC (tax on the income of the public), in which, at the latest, a new step was created to tax profits — which we already tax on profits based on profits that may be higher than normal in a given company. Therefore, the discussion on the taxation of unexpected profits is a valid discussion which, in fact, the European Commission calls on us, but you can never forget that our IRC already has a progressive dimension and, through spills, it already distinguishes greater profits than what is normal. Mr President, you should sincerely remember when you talk about this. But the important thing, Mr President, is not what separates us; it is what unites us. And what unites us is an extraordinary temporary measure of very significant low ISP, equivalent to a low VAT rate, to address the increase in the price of fuels in this very specific period. We hope that these taxes can be fully impacted on the price of selling to the public through a relief that represents a very significant part of what was the increase in the cost of fuels. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u47	The next item is the floor. Members who will present draft laws and resolutions which are also part of this debate. For that, first of all, Mr John Dias of the Portuguese Communist Party has the floor. [[Pause.]] I'm sorry, Mr Rui Tavares asked why?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u48	For a request for clarification, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u49	To myself? Mr. Secretary of State? [[Risos do L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u50	to the Secretary of State, of course.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u51	I'm sorry, it wasn't recorded here at the table. The information the Bureau had was that the honourable Member wanted to make an intervention. It is a request for clarification that you intend to make. There'll be no problem. The Secretary of State still has 18 seconds, so the Member will, with his consent, make a request for clarification in one minute and the Secretary of State shall, in a concise manner, reply in 18 seconds. You have the floor, Mr Rui Tavares.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u52	Mr President, I need only a yes or no answer. Mr. President, Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State, we all know what we are doing here. It is an analgesic and not a cure. All right! There are often times when an analgesic is needed, it is even urgent. We cannot be deluded: it is not a cure. The proposal to lower the ISP minimum threshold to zero is important at this extraordinary time, but after zero, there is nothing more to subsidize fuel consumption. We may need to alleviate the cost of fuel consumption in people's pockets at this time, but what is really the cure is to give people viable independence options for reasons of their budget, for climate reasons and also for model development in relation to fossil fuels. From this point of view, there is a proposal which the Free Paper has already made, up to the framework of the budgetary debate, which has to do with creating a programme similar to the PART(Tax Reduction Support Programme in Public Transport). This proposal would not be for the reduction of public transport tariffs, but for the creation of a new mode of public transport based first on school transport, on buses and electric vans, to give an option to families. Children and young students of basic and pre-school education could go from school to school door, taking cars out of the streets—and so, in fact, going on the way of healing, and not just relief. The answer I am seeking is just to know what the government is willing to discuss seriously this programme, because this will condition all the debate we will have from the budget point of view. Are we really going to understand whether we are on the only side of relief or whether we are on the side of healing, that is, the way to a new model of development that goes through greater independence in relation to fossil fuels?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u53	I give the floor to Mr. Secretary of State to reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u54	Mr President, Mr Rui Tavares, yes, we are available for all the debates that are relevant to the future of the country, precisely for a development model that allows us to withdraw our dependence on fossil fuels. On the other hand, honourable Member, the right is silent in this debate...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u55	Calm down, calm down!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u56	... because the only answer you have in this matter is to lower taxes on fuels because it is not at least caring about what climate change is. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]] That is why our proposal, as you well notice, is an analgesic, because it is for a very localized situation. The only thing right is not to worry at least about the future and climate change. [[CH-protests and PS-protests.]] But no, Mr, climate change and the challenge of climate balance have not ended and we are here, in this legislature, because this is really one of the strategic challenges and it is the challenge that is worth facing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u57	After these very free interpretations of the concept of concision, we then gave the floor to Mr. João Dias, to present the bills and the draft resolution of the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: The CFP brings to the vote 10 initiatives to respond to the significant increase in the cost of living for the Portuguese people. Ten bills aimed at responding to problems and bringing concrete solutions, either through tax relief or price regulation, defending populations and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, instead of keeping the door open to speculation, thus financing the profits of economic groups. With regard to fuels, we propose that a new reference price be created, based on the actual costs of buying and refining the oil barrel, the possibility of fixing maximum margins, defining a non-speculative margin, and an extraordinary contribution on the profits of petroleum products resulting from the appropriation of speculative margins. In the context of taxation, Mrs. Members, we support the end of the so-called ‘additional to ISP’, we defend the end of double taxation of fuels, ending with the situation in which the ISP pays VAT, we advocate the reduction of mandatory incorporation of biofuels to 5 %, once rather than the current 11 %, which will have a direct impact on reducing the price paid by consumers. With regard to energy, Mrs. Members, the CFP proposes the replacement of 6 % VAT for electricity, natural gas, butane or propane gas bottled and channelled, as well as the extension of regulated tariffs, allowing the conclusion of new contracts under this scheme. Also in the agri-food sector, we present proposals that are essential to address the increase in prices and ensure the food sovereignty of Portugal. It is necessary to increase production capacity in order to ensure the supply of food, reducing external dependence, avoiding food shortages and preventing speculative price increases. These answers, ladies and gentlemen. Members, they are all the more necessary, as the measures that the Government brings to us are far from what is necessary to respond to the difficulties that the workers, the people and the overwhelming majority of our productive sectors are going through. The CFP assumes that it is necessary to move forward with measures to control the fixing of maximum prices and to defend national production, not only as an immediate response to the problem of rising prices, but also with the aim of breaking up with the country's external dependence and defending national sovereignty, a situation which, predictably, could become even more serious, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, since the Government's proposal is insufficient to address the problems that are at the root of this situation. That is why what the Government intends to do is to risk not being effective. In addition, some of the measures which the Government submits, in particular with regard to fuel taxes, are not accompanied by price control and fixing measures, as proposed by the CFP, will result in economic groups continuing to increase prices in a speculative way, leaving oil, large distribution groups and other economic groups the possibility of promoting speculative price increases, putting tax revenues to subsidize their profits. Yes, sir. Members, the immediate response to the increase in cost of living calls for measures to control and set prices and to increase wages and pensions. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u59	Mr President, the Bureau records a Member's registration to make a request for clarification submitted by the Socialist Party. To formulate it, Mr Francisco Rocha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, Mr João Dias, with regard to agriculture, we have heard and read with great attention a set of diplomas which the CFP has joined in this debate, mainly the Bills Nos 13, 14 and 15 / XV / 1. the obvious, we share some of their concerns, but we do not, in any way, subscribe to the scenarios and the paths that are proposed to us to overcome them. They will all agree that the creation of working groups and public enterprises, such as VV. They propose, they are not the most urgent and effective measures to address the urgency of the problems. That is exactly why we are discussing Bill No. 1 / XV / 1. a : number one in terms of priority, number one in terms of urgency, because it concerns the exemption of VAT for agricultural production, such as fertilizers, fertilizers, soil correctives, flours, cereals and seeds for animal feed, which will be joined together— and you have completely forgotten that—the incentive already to use renewable energies, the extension of the ISP on agricultural marked diesel, the provision of more than 18, 2 million euros to mitigate costs with animal feed and with fertilizers and the exceptional temporary support package, mobilizing resources from the first and second pillars of the CAP(common agricultural policy).
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, let me refer to two recent and very important indicators: between January and February 2022, the agroforestry and fisheries complex recorded an increase of 27 % in exports from EUR 1553 million to EUR 1973 for the same period of 2021. As far as this is concerned, and this is another indicator, at the RDP 2020 ( Rural Development Programme 2014 - 2020 ), the transition regime and the support package « Next Generation », Portugal records a 70 % implementation rate, at 10 %. the position above the European average, which is 64 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These two indicators may help to better understand the difficulty that you have to admit that the Portuguese agri-food sector, despite this complex situation, continues to be competitive, resilient and advancing. unlike some, we did not diabolize any kind of agriculture. All are very important for us to be able to raise the level of food self-sufficiency in our country. Therefore, Mr President, I would ask you to explain why the CFP has a very difficult relationship with the concepts and the words 'competitive' and 'innovation'. These words do not include any of the various diplomas that the CFP has decided to join this discussion. It is strange, it is really very strange, for those who want to discuss a national strategy for food sovereignty. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u63	To reply, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u64	Mr President, Mr Francisco Rocha, I would like to tell you that at the moment the difficulties of small and medium-sized agriculture and family farming are such that any small aid is welcome. However, what exists is not enough, nor is it responding to the problems that are effectively placed on small farming and family farming. You know very well the dependency situation in which our country is in terms of food. It is therefore important that national production increases, replacing imports with national production. That is the answer that our projects bring in terms of guaranteeing the sovereignty and food security of the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u65	To present your initiative, Mr Rui Afonso has the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the United States of America.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u66	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: First of all, I would like to express my indignation at what was said by the Secretary of State, when he prioritized green energy, when we have, every day, families and businesses to suffocate with the increase in the price of fuels. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Through Bill No. 38 / XV / 1. a, the arrival proposes the creation of an extraordinary discount of 20 cents per litre of fuel in public supply posts, to be in force for a period of six months, with possibility of renewal, for equal and successive periods of time, while the current contingencies are maintained. This proposal is aimed at tackling the latent instability of the price of fuels, which is becoming increasingly inappropriate for Portuguese families and companies, taking into account a continuous increase in the expenditure which, by extension, can indeed lead to the inadmissibility of family budgets and to the unsustainability of businesses.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u67	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u68	With the escalation of the crisis caused by the invasion of Ukraine by Russia in Portugal, the price of gas and gasoline has risen to over €2 / l. However, not only with the war can one justify the constant increase in the price of fuels in Portugal, from the outset, because before it, the level of taxation was extremely high, to a large extent due to the presence of the so-called « additional to the ISP », created by the government's portfolio in 2016, and due to the double taxation of the ISP within VAT.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u69	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u70	The mechanism we propose is similar to the mechanisms that are already being applied in several European countries, such as Spain, which approved the Royal Decree-Law 6 / 2022, which, among several measures, provides for a direct discount on the price per litre of fuel automatically applicable at the end price of the consumer. In view of the government's announced measure to reduce the ISP equivalent to the reduction of VAT to the intermediate rate of 13 %, we believe that our proposal presents a set of advantages to the Government's proposal: lower complexity of the mechanism applied; greater transparency in the discount applied and better perception of households and businesses relative to the allowance granted; better forecast of the budgetary impact; tax taxation applied to petroleum products remains unchanged, having a clear distinction between tax revenue and budgetary expenditure allocated through the proposed subsidy; and the real benefit to companies and families, at present and in the context of existing projections, will have a more effective impact as a mitigating measure of the effect of the increase in the price of fuels, since the discount allocated to the final customer is greater than the discount resulting from the mechanism proposed by the Government. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u71	To submit its initiative on behalf of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, Mr Rui Rocha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: In this first intervention of the Liberal Initiative of the day, I cannot fail to begin by greeting this first day without mandatory masks... [[Applause from the IL.]] ...and, above all, I would say it's a bad day for us, the ugly, but a nice day for the kids' smiles in our schools. [[Applause from the IL.]] So let's go to the point that brings us here. The Government presents some extraordinary and provisional measures to deal with the increase in fuel. contrary to what the Secretary of State mentioned here, they are neither timely, because they should have been taken longer, nor are they sufficient. In order to understand what we are talking about, we cannot just put ourselves to the concrete proposal. We need to report back to the well-known budget data and tax revenue planned for 2022. The Government will charge in 2022 an additional EUR 3000 million in respect of the known provisional implementation of 2021 — plus 6, 76 % and 10 % more than expected in the 2021 budget. Therefore, it is a fiscal enormity that is being prepared in this country in the near future. We cannot only look at these proposals, we cannot consider them enough and, as I say, the former Government has been entertained with the « AUTOVoucher », with partial measures, with insufficient measures and we must talk about the framework as a whole. What is needed at this time is to take concrete measures that solve the Portuguese problem. Therefore, the concrete measures presented by the Government are insufficient, as I said, because they propose a drop in the ISP, but they are concentrated only at the minimum rate, and what we propose, in our initiative, is also a change in the maximum rate. Only with this reduction in the maximum ISP rate will we achieve a 25% reduction in ISP. These are the numbers that make sense and that will help the Portuguese right now. On the other hand, the initiative proposed by the Government also provides for an apparent relief for producers, and here we have to talk about Portuguese farmers. As a whole, the State budget for 2022, apparently, as I said, provides for an aid of EUR 500 million for farmers, but of these EUR 500 million, 90 % are appropriations. So what we're saying is that farmers and producers can get more indebted. Only 10 % actually correspond to measures with some impact, but again insufficient. We cannot continue to look only at what we could call « a balconies farm ». We must look at producers and farmers, as a whole, and at their needs. We are now going to the essential point of this intervention. For the ISP, the Liberal Initiative proposes, as I said, a revision of the maximum rate, which implies an immediate reduction of 25 % of the ISP, for example in the case of petrol. The Liberal Initiative also presented a proposal to reduce energy and gas VAT to 6 %. But much more than that, sirs. Members of the government, what we need is a general and global measure of lowering taxes. We cannot accept that at a time when the real wages will be reduced and that the Portuguese, the families, the companies face serious difficulties, under all known circumstances, there will be an increase in tax revenue of EUR 3000 million in 2022. Therefore, what we propose, in addition to these concrete measures I have just mentioned, is that they review the steps of the IRS (tax on income of natural persons),...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u73	It's in the Budget!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u74	...to lower indirect taxes. [[Applause from the IL.]] I know that for the PS and for this government, which are dependent on the collection of known and prolonged taxes, all of this is very complicated, but they dare, for once, to be next to the Portuguese, lowering taxes with concrete measures, but with a general and necessary framework. António Costa would like to be known in its first government as « Costa I — what turned the page of austerity ». As for its second Government, I would like to be known as « Costa II — what made the replacement of income ». If they do nothing, Antonio Costa will be known in this government as « Costa III — the austerityist ». [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u75	To present your bill, you have the floor, on behalf of the Left Block, Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: The Block initiative is quite simple, direct and self-explanatory. It aims to eliminate the double taxation that currently exists on the price of fuels and to reduce the incidence of ISP, which is clearly seen as one of the problems of high price. This initiative does not exhaust other measures which we want to put forward at budgetary level, to act, too, on energy taxes, or other initiatives that we are going to present to eliminate the abusive and completely speculative margins that, both in the energy sector and in the sector of large distribution, are wrongly drawing much money from our economy and our families. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u77	For an intervention, Mr Alexandre Simões of the PSD now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Dr. António Costa's PS Government has been responsible for the greatest ever tax increase in oil products.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u79	Hey!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u80	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u81	The fact that this is the first proposal, Law No. 1 / XV / 1. a, does not allow us to forget the past. This House cannot forget that it was in 2016 that António Costa proceeded to a brutal increase of the ISP. This increase resulted in an increase of 6 cents in the value of the ISP, which, in addition to VAT, amounted to about 7.4 cents on the price of fuels. In other words, taxes were responsible for around 70 % of the increase in the same price. Only changes in the ISP rates on petrol and gasoline resulted in an increase of 600 million euros, I repeat, 600 million euros in revenue from that tax, until 2016. In order to justify this tax aggression, the Government pointed out that it intended to compensate for the loss of VAT revenue as a result of the decrease in the international quote of oil, with the promise of fiscal neutrality. He then promised to resume the usual tax levels as soon as the price of the oil barrel increased again. However, in the following years, the government maintained the ISP's spiral of rise, apologizing on environmental grounds, in particular invoking the need to approximate the taxation of petrol and gasoline. in this blatant case, the PS government has promised, but it has not fulfilled. It is appropriate to say, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, that was not an honest word.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u82	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u83	In order to have a better understanding of the size of this tax increase, we simply adhere to the following values: in 2015 the revenues of the ISP were about EUR 2100 million; in 2021 — if not — the revenue of this tax reached the astronomical 3300 million euro. At the same time, the increase in ISP also increased the revenue of VAT. The ISP also covers VAT at a rate of 23 %. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As a result of this historic increase in ISP, the price difference of fuels in Portugal has worsened compared to the European average and, in particular, to our neighbouring Spain, harming Portuguese and the national economy. In the case of gasoline, for example, prices in Portugal exceeded by 20 %, up to very recently, prices in Spain, suffocating Portuguese families and companies, each and every one of us. The reduction in ISP became even more pressing when the price of fuels increased in international markets over 2021. And what did the government do? — they will ask VV. Ex. The answer is simple: nothing, or better, persisted in the path of increased tax revenues. Only late in October 2021, in full campaign and in full pre-election time, in the face of a climate of widespread revolt against the price of fuels, is that the government has launched a symbolic return of €20, at most, through the « AUTOvoucher », which are mere palliatives and experimentalism, solutions that aimed at more the propagandistic effect than the resolution of the problems and anxieties of the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u84	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u85	Only now, following the war in Ukraine, has the government decided to approve the mechanism for the return of VAT revenue as a result of the increase in the price of fuels resulting from this terrible conflict. At last — late and late — a proposal from the Government to reduce the ISP as well as to exempt VAT from certain agricultural production activities. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, a just decision, when it is taken five years late and even if it is the first proposal of this government, it is in itself unfair. It should therefore be remembered that the PSD has been calling for the reduction of the ISP since 2007.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u86	It's been government!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u87	It is for the sake of justice that the PSD proposes that the reduction now under consideration consider the value equal to the additional VAT collection of 2021 obtained in excess, as a result of an increase in the price of fuels on international markets, and that is estimated to be EUR 170 million. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is of the highest interest of the country that drops the ISP, relieving inflationary pressure and thus addressing families and businesses. It is of the national interest that is urgently done because, until that moment, it is Portugal and it is the Portuguese that are losing. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u88	For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN. [[Pause.]] I am sorry, but the Government has indicated that it wishes to make an inquiry to the Bureau. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u89	Mr President, if I may, I would like to say the following: I think Mr Alexandre Simões spoke of 'the word given is an honest word' and the government wants to contribute to the debate by the honourable Members. Members have all the information and can speak with rigour. Thus, we want to deliver to the Bureau the list of all the portals made since 2016, which show that the increase in the ISP was not only fully reverted, it was more than fully reverted.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u90	No, it wasn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u91	That is why I am going to send the list to the honourable Member so that they do not say things that do not correspond to the truth. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u92	Mr. Secretary of State, please send the document to the Bureau to be distributed. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present: The set of urgent measures to mitigate the increase in prices felt by Portuguese in recent months is undoubtedly essential, but this cannot have the mark of conservatism or, even worse, of backwardness in matters such as environmental targets. This proposal by the Government is far from what is necessary. It suspends the minimum limits of the unit rates of tax on petroleum and energy products, exempt from VAT the feeding of animals and birds within the framework of livestock activity, but does not provide for support for families with pet animals or, worse still, for zoophyll associations, for which the increase in food prices resulting from inflation assumes absolutely unbearable values. The Government, which is sitting here today, knocks on the doors of associations that each year collect thousands of animals that should be in charge of the State — and which now have to bear medical and veterinary expenses with VAT at 23 % and also food — but once again forgets those who are repeatedly asked to be given their hand. For this reason, because we know that animal protection associations play a role that the State is so disheartening, the NAP presented a proposal for a change to this government initiative to address this profound injustice. Finally, I cannot fail to say that the exemption from zero VAT should not remain here; it should also be extended to the transmission of essential cabaz food to families, such as bread, cereals, fruit or vegetables. This is an absolutely extraordinary moment, but we know that the zero ISP in fuels, although perceptible in the context in which we live today, cannot be in conflict with the fight against climate change.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u94	Mr Pedro Frazão, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The primary sector is called because it is first. However, the concept of food sovereignty has appeared zero times in this Government's programme. But we know, Mrs. Government members, « if the field does not plant, the city does not eat ». The government should be concerned about our rural world and the farmers who are entrepreneurs in this country. at a time of great uncertainty and at the risk of thousands of failures in the various rows of the agro-industrial sector in Portugal, the Government presented a proposal for a purely cosmetic law to exempt two VAT: one 6 % and another 13 %, when the challenges of food production conditions in Portugal are gross price increases of fertilizers in the order of 100 %, and increases of feed materials in the order of 54 %, in maize, 69 %, in wheat, and 64 % in barley only to give you examples here. All this economic storm is being bad for many farmers in Portugal, particularly in the Santarém district — our agricultural capital — where it is seriously considered to stop food production and not even sow the fields already because money is being lost to produce. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, meeting me a few days ago with dairy farmers in the Setúbal Peninsula, who reported that they are slaughtering animals because it is too expensive to keep them alive, with a huge loss of wealth, genetics and installed capacity for food production. In order to ensure food sovereignty and the survival of agricultural entrepreneurs in Portugal, we must go much further, Mrs. Members of the Government. Thus, the arrival has proposed that the exemption of VAT should be extended to fertilizers, fertilizers, soil corrections, seed for the fields and for all plants of cultivation, phytopharmaceuticals for plant health and veterinary medicinal products for animal health. And more: it must also be free from VAT the flours, cereals and all mixtures proper for feeding the cattle. Although the animals here in the city are also important, in the field they are the animals that keep the flocks, they are the animals that keep the properties and they are the animals that naturally control the pests. Therefore, these foods must also be exempt from VAT. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, Mr President, farmers are in the arm of the increase in electricity and fuel. Even the agricultural gas oil is more expensive than ever: a tractor spends 60 l of gas oil per hour, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! Question: Are the Government and the party of the absolute majority willing to effectively reduce the price of taxes? Furthermore, is the Government willing to follow our proposal which aims to reduce the price of agricultural electricity by 20 %? We know, sirs. Members of the Government, in Portugal farmers are at the limit. In fact, in Portugal and throughout Europe. In France, they protested through the streets of the cities, launching streets of strume through the cities. In Spain, 600 000 farmers closed Castelhana, in defense of the rural world. I bring to this House and to the members of the Government a message from the agricultural world in Portugal: do not underestimate Portuguese farmers! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u96	Mr Hugo Carneiro, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: There are two proposals which have entered this Chamber on the reduction of the VAT rate on electricity, and this is a debate that must be considered by this Parliament. We cannot ignore that for several months, and not only because of the war in Ukraine, prices have come to crush all Portuguese who have difficulty paying their bills. The debate is not new. The PSD brought it to this House two years ago, as everyone will certainly remember, and at that time everyone refused — including the Socialist Party — to approve the PSD proposal which already allowed the reduction of VAT in electricity.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u98	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u99	And, therefore, we see with very good eyes that these proposals can be discussed again, but with some particularities. It is because today it is solely dependent on the Socialist Party and the Government to approve these proposals. You cannot ignore the idea that there is irresponsibility in the opposition for presenting these proposals. Today, you have a majority and the very clear message that you should get out of here is whether or not you want to reduce the charges for the Portuguese, which have a lot of difficulty in paying the taxes. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u100	But we must also say the following: the Liberal Initiative and the Communist Party, which present exactly the same proposal, have some particular features. Although the Liberal Initiative refers to the need for the approval of European bodies, it does not put that in the preamble. Therefore, we will make both proposals viable if we can introduce this in our specialty. With regard to the proposal of the Communist Party, I must say that we do not see ourselves at any point in the preamble, i.e. we do not see ourselves in the nationalisation of the energy sector, we do not see ourselves at the exit of Portugal from the European Union. And let that be very clear.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u101	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u102	However, we want to contribute so that all Portuguese can see their burdens reduced and, therefore, we will make the proposals viable. Let me tell you something, Mr Secretary of State: I said a little while ago that the right was absent from the debate. The right is not absent from the debate. And I saw her discomfort when she distributed any role of the government through the different benches. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] I saw his discomfort because the opposition brought here an essential question: energy taxes weigh on all Portuguese, and that is why there are not enough answers. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u103	Mr Ivan Gonçalves of the Socialist Party has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: We are now almost at the end of this debate and we have noted with great attention that the right, in relation to the first proposal which has been presented, discussed and voted on in the Council of Ministers since this Government is in full office, has not been able to debate, to put a question or to make a proposal on this initiative by the Government that intends to lower the ISP to compensate for the decline in VAT from 23 % to 13 %. That's what the ladies are talking about. Ladies and gentlemen didn't want to talk here today. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We also learned that the PSD, by the way, has been in favour of the decline of the ISP since 2007. But it was this same PSD and CDS government — a government that was also supported by the PSD militant, Mr Ventura —...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u105	He's wrong! You're always having that conversation!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u106	They've got the card there! Ask Dr. Rui Rio, he's got the card there!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u107	... which has created the biggest tax burden in recent years. More: he was also able to create the carbon rate, which he has deserved up here would not say a broad consensus, but at least has been seen as positive by this House. [[PSD and CH protests.]] In fact, if it were not the suspension that the government made of the increase in the carbon rate, at the beginning of this year we would have at the head five cents of increase in the gas and gas oil deposits of the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Members, besides discussing the taxation and special taxation of fossil fuels, it is important to remember that this House and this government have a duty to minimize the impact fossil fuels have on future generations and climate change, which are not something of the future—they are already there. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The way we must follow, therefore, is even that of deepening the wager in renewable energies, because that is the only way to protect the country, not only to give it energy sovereignty and protect it from what is the volatility of fossil fuels, but precisely to ensure the sustainability of the planet.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u108	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u109	In the face of the storm this government has encountered, in the face of the tension that has worsened over the last few months in Eastern Europe, in the face of war, in the face of the oil shock, this government has not been stopped.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u110	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u111	I shall conclude, Mr President. As of October, this government offset the increase in VAT with the decrease in the ISP and created the « AUTOvoucher » in the value of 0, 05 € / l for each Portuguese. [[CH protests.]] In February, the value of « AUTOvoucher » was increased to 20 € for each Portuguese and a weekly adjustment of the ISP was made.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u112	Nobody wears that!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u113	Migalhas!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u114	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u115	I will finish, Mr. President. Now, what this government is doing is adjusting this same decrease of the ISP to a total value of measures of nearly EUR 500 million in support of families and businesses. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, I will even conclude by saying that good accounts and an efficient state are precisely to help families and businesses in times of great international crisis. Thank you, Mr. President, for your tolerance. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u116	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Patrícia Dantas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u117	H.E. Mr. President, Mr. Members of the Government, Distinguished and Distinguished Members: The proposed amendment signed by the PSD, to be assessed, is intended to enable the Autonomous Regions, in particular the Governments of the Azores and Madeira, to have the same legal framework as the Government of the Republic as regards the establishment of the minimum value of the ISP. This means that the regional governments can decide on which value to apply regionally and which, within the limit, can be EUR 0 for gas oil and lead-free petrol, as envisaged by the Government for mainland Portugal. And this, of course, on the assumption that Portugal will obtain from the European Commission the derogation of the minimum values provided for in the European Directive, as it has been reported. It is therefore intended that in the Autonomous Regions too, and with the sacrifice of own tax revenue, the extraordinary measures to support families and businesses may be extended to deal with the increase in the price of fuels. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u118	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe we are in a position to end the debate. The floor is Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, who has 2 minutes and 13 seconds in total. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin with the last statement by Mrs Patrícia Dantas, to associate the Government with the initiative that both the PSD Parliamentary Group and the PS Parliamentary Group have to extend the proposed government law to the regional governments of Madeira and the Azores. This must, in fact, do all the ladies and gentlemen. Members reflect on the goodness of this proposal, because both the Government of the Republic and the Regional Governments agree that this is a good and effective measure to respond to the current situation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Members, I address directly to the PSD Parliamentary Group to say the following: the irresponsibility of the opposition does not end up with an absolute majority of support for the government, this irresponsibility remains. I hoped that this irresponsibility would have ended, but I can understand it a little bit, because it is based on facts that do not correspond to the truth. And there is a perception by Mr Alexandre Simões that is wrong and that has to do with the evolution of the ISP recipe. The PSD Member here said that the ISP revenue rose from EUR 2100 million to EUR 3200 million in the first year. The honourable Member has forgotten to say that since this government is a government it has complied with the recommendation of the Court of Auditors, which is to account for in the ISP revenue what is the revenue of the contribution of the road service. This actually makes what is comparable to the value that Mr here said is 2153 million with 2424 million. And this smaller difference is due so much to the increase in introductions to consumption and is not due to any increase in taxes. Therefore, Mr President, perhaps your irresponsibility may be lower if you better assess the sources on which you are based to make certain proposals. Mr Carneiro has come here to announce that the PSD has made a proposal on electricity VAT, but what he forgets to say is that Portugal is already one of the few countries with reduced electricity VAT precisely because it has achieved a derogation from the VAT rules which allow VAT to be made on a scale which benefits the first consumption and also the most numerous families. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u120	Mr. Secretary of State has to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u121	Ending, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps the most elucidative of this debate has even been the intervention and protest of Mr de la Chega, who literally came here to tell us that the issue of climate change is of no use at all. Well, it is with the sense of balance, responsibility, financial sustainability and environmental sustainability that the government will continue to lead the country's destinations...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u122	Bad, very bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u123	...to make the country have a future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u124	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we then move to the second item on the agenda, which is part of the joint assessment, in general, of the Proposal for a Law No 2 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Change the Budgetary Framework Act and the Bill No. 44 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Amends the Budget Framework Act to the provisions of the Climate Bases Act. To present the bill, Mr. Secretary of State of the Budget, Sofia Battle, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I use it to drive here, in my first speech, a good day for everyone. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I bring here a proposal for an amendment to the Budget Framework Act which has an absolutely limited scope and aims, above all, to ensure the payment of the holiday allowance to public service workers, in the context of some uncertainty as to the entry into force of the State budget for 2022. The year 2022 has the particular feature of being the first year in which the new rules of the Budget Framework Act on the transitional arrangements which apply when the State budget is extended, but it is also a year in which the transitional arrangements will be in force for a particularly long period of time, in principle about half a year. It was on the basis of the budget management in twelve months that we have identified the need to clarify the Budget Framework Act, since the rules on the twelve-year scheme do not ensure that expenditure may be incurred whose performance profile is different from the twelve-year profile. Classic examples of this expenditure are interest, debt amortization, investment and, in this case in particular, payment of the holiday allowance, citing only a few. In the amendment we now propose, we reintroduce the possibility of being excluded from this twelve-year scheme which, by its nature, do not actually comply with this standard, having taken care to circumscribe these exceptions to the commitments already made by the State. Therefore, they are not new commitments, they are commitments that the State has already made. This hypothesis of exclusion, which gives a wider range of expenditure, is not new, was in force until 2020, including with a decree of law establishing them. Finally, let me point out that this proposal also seeks to reconcile the time frame of the elements contained in the various phases of the budgetary procedure at the start of the Government's functions, in particular with regard to the Law of the Great Options of the Plan, in which, as we have the authority of the Government to have 90 days to present the Law of the State Budget, it is also intended to have that time frame to present the Law of the Great Options of the Plan. I am, of course, at your disposal to answer any questions you would like to ask me. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u126	Madam Secretary of State, the Bureau registered three Mrs. Members for requests for clarification, which, I suppose, will be answered in block. The first request for clarification lies with Mr Pedro Anastácio of the Socialist Party. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill we are discussing today aims to ensure the normal functioning of the Public Administration, but more than that, it aims to ensure compliance with commitments made by the Portuguese State while the transitional system of budgetary implementation is in force. With this proposal, expenditure relating to social benefits, workers' rights and other commitments under which the payment profile is not compatible with the twelfth scheme is outside the twelfth scheme. For this reason, I ask you, Madam Secretary of State, what is the concrete meaning for the Portuguese of this surgical amendment to the Budget Framework Act. In essence, we highlight the purpose of this proposal to ensure, among other commitments, the early payment of the holiday allowance. As you have already had the opportunity to say that prudence must be the principal characteristic of the ruler, we welcome it by applying this prudence to the service of the country and people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u128	To make a request for clarification, Mrs Carla Castro has the floor of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Budget Framework Act deserves two kinds of consideration. First, a concern. This is a law which is being revised, in amendment, especially with a view to greater transparency and greater vision of results — these are two terms that have not been very friends of this government — and both the Great Plan Options and the multiannual expenditure framework are fundamental parts. Well, this review has been delayed. We would therefore like to know what the next steps are and what an effective commitment to the implementation of the revisions of the Budget Framework Act. I would like to recall the words of the then Secretary of State John Leon in the Committee on Budgets and Finance, in which he said on this review, that it was clear to everyone that the time limit indicated was « not ambitious and realistic ». They were all aware that the deadline would not be met! And then he said: « (...) but the government has worked to meet the 2021 goal ». Yeah, we're in 2022 and I add: little ambition has the government! There is a second order of reasons for being concerned about this. It is that the Law of the Great Options of the Plan and the Stability Programme are documents to be taken seriously and the Budget Framework Law says that they are delivered before the State Budget, for one reason: prior to implementation comes the strategy. However, this government has not been good in the strategy either, and the documents it has submitted seem merely administrative pieces. It is not just us who say it, for example UTAO (Technical Unit of Budget Support). There are several documents in which, systematically, criticisms such as this are pointed out: « substantive insufficiency in projections drastically limits the interest in projections ». All of this should be changed and in our view there should be a different attitude on the part of the Government. We already know what the government has and what the government does not have. We know he's willing to spend money, we know he's got no vision. We know that you have a cluster of projects without budgeting, we know that you do not have a vision for Portugal. On the concrete request, in particular to exclude these Great Plan Options, to postpone this discussion, we recall that we are in this situation due to the delay in the takeover and the inability of the government to ensure the vote of migrants. The Great Plan Options are indeed an important point and we could also discuss what would be better or worse — having bad twelve-year budgets or having a bad annual budget. But we are clear: in any case, we will be here to examine, to make responsible and constructive opposition and ask that in 2023 we have a serious debate, with more information, time,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u130	... with the basis of public policies, as we all deserve, focused on knowledge and ambition. We do the challenge: we want ambition! We want ambition because this is a government without ambition. No ambition for reform, no ambition for growth, no ambition for the future of our generations. I repeat : that the government has ambition for Portugal! [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u131	To make a request for clarification, Mr Rui Paulo Sousa, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government has proposed amendments to the Budget Framework Act on the basis of the need to make adjustments to the rules applicable to the budgetary procedure. However, this bill intends to go far beyond mere adjustments to the rules in force. The range of expenditure which is no longer limited by the twelve-year scheme is extended by the use of indeterminate concepts for the qualification of such exceptional expenditure, which, of course, enables the Government to spend public money on its best interests.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u133	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u134	We are talking about the expenditure associated with other commitments made whose payment profile is not compatible with the twelve-year scheme. However, if the idea was to introduce the expression 'deals already made' in order to be able to pay the holiday allowance of civil servants, it is not clear why he did not expressly say so. Or, perhaps, even you realize: will holiday subsidies be just a pretext?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u135	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u136	Blanked cheques never yield good results, my gentlemen, too much room for manoeuvre given to the government at a time when it should not have done so. Enlargement of the scope of exceptions should be confined only to debt charges and expenditure associated with the implementation of the European funds in order to ensure their full and timely compliance. We therefore ask: for what purpose does the Government intend to expand the expenditure so far and indeterminately except for the twelfth regime? And our second question is about the retroactive effects that are intended to be attributed to the law: is it in order to be able to cover up the holes that have been left in the last few months?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u137	Exactly! All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u138	It is also apparent from the bill that the need for amendments is not only the constant of the explanatory statement; there seems to be another squambling, that « to sweep some garbage under the carpet», leaving the government house with air of apparent cleaning. The fact is that by means of the retroactive effect provided for in the bill, the Government can validate all its previous performance, escaping from the rise of the law and a subsequent scrutiny of the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u139	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u140	Transparency is our word of order, ladies and gentlemen, and so much so that the amendment tabled by the House to this bill is simple and clear. It requires more transparency, publicity of government acts and public accounts, more information for citizens, more trust in institutions. We therefore want, in particular, the results of the government's audits to be made available through a transparency portal, such as the final reports made by the Court of Auditors on budgetary control, so that anyone can have access to them. It is not only the Assembly of the Republic that is responsible for monitoring the action of the Government; any elector must have the possibility to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u141	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u142	In the current national and international context we face, with economic recovery as a priority, the implementation of the expenditure provided for in the State budget is essential for the stabilization of the country's economic situation. Public accounts must be clear and transparent. Lack of transparency in the management of public money! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u143	To reply, you have the floor of the Secretary of State for the Budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the questions you asked me. I would like to focus the focus of the discussion on the proposal before us, which is the amendment to the Budget Framework Act. There are headquarters for the other issues that have been raised here, and in particular we will have the opportunity to discuss them during the next week, at the headquarters of the State budget. Unfortunately, I will not have much time to be able to fully explain the content of our proposals, but I want to point out two very particular situations. On the implementation of the Budget Framework Act, I want to tell you that she is not completely forgotten. Even in this proposal, in this report of the State Budget, we have maintained a pilot of the programmes, which is one of the major features of the Budget Framework Act and of what is planned here, and this pilot will allow us to take some lessons and legislate on this matter in an appropriate way, with an experience. On the issue of transparency, I would like to point out the following: this proposal that we make to the Budget Framework Act says, at the outset, very clearly, what are the costs we consider to be not falling within the twelfth profile. However, we guarantee that we are only trying to safeguard the commitments already made by the State. This is not a white letter to the government, it is only a way to ensure that we fulfill our commitment. In terms of transparency, I also use it to point out that in the revision that we made before the law we introduced a number of new obligations, also for the Government itself to present to the Assembly of the Republic additional information, including outside the State budget, so that we can possibly discuss the different options and impacts. So let me point out that we value this proposal. We understand that it is useful and we have been careful to circumscribe to the expenses which, in fact, cannot fail to be paid. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u145	To present the draft law of the NAP, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u146	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for Finance, Members of the Government here present: The Climate Bases Act has been an important step towards a serious combat of climate emergency in our country. She came to create conditions so that our country's public policies can be focused on this fight and respect for scientific evidence. When we discuss instruments as relevant as the Budget Framework Act, there is one element that cannot be left out of this equation: it is precisely the fight against climate change. If this debate was launched by the NAP, having brought together a very broad consensus in this Parliament, during the discussion of the Basics of Climate Law, it is essential that it become a consequence now. That is why we are again in line with the fight against climate emergency, with an initiative that wants to adapt the Budget Framework Act to the amendments to the budgetary procedure provided for in the climate law. It should also be noted that, without this amendment, as stated by the Council of Public Finance ( PSC ), we take two risks. First of all, we may incur unconstitutionality by breach of Article 106 ( 1 ). the Constitution itself. Secondly, what we are told about the rules of budgetary procedure is that they must be in the Budget Framework Act. This means that nothing prevents them from being in the law of the climate, but, in order for them to be consistent and effective, they must also be in the Budget Framework Act, and that is what the NAP proposes. On the other hand, without this amendment, we may be giving an empty letter to the Government to once again violate the requirements of climate law or climate requirements. Just look at the proposal of the State Budget to understand it. Although required by climate law, we do not find, for example, the forecast of greenhouse gas emissions, the budget allocation for climate policy or an estimate of the contribution of the measures entered for the fulfilment of the decarbonisation targets. We ask Parliament whether it really wants its will to be met, whether it wants to fulfil the broad, broad-based will in this House; whether it wants to comply with the law of the climate or whether it wants to leave it in the drawer; whether it wants to fulfil or leave in the drawer the commitment to eliminate perverse subsidies to fossil fuels; whether it wants to have only deficit and debt reduction targets or whether it wants to have greenhouse gas reduction targets and an effective green mark. This clarification cannot wait, since the point of no return does not wait for us either. Finally, I leave a final note to say that we will not make the Government's proposal invalid, which will, in practice, allow the public service workers' holidays to be paid, as well as all the amendments that mean an increase in the transparency of the budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u147	Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The proposed law under consideration, as presented by the Government to the Assembly of the Republic, emerged as a very specific diploma, with two amendments to the Budget Framework Act. Both amendments aim to give more room for manoeuvre to the Government, one allowing more time for the delivery of the Big Options Law, in situations that do not correspond to the regular calendar of institutional functioning, and the other reducing the limitations of current budget management in twelfths, allowing the Government to have more areas where spending can increase, if that regime is in effect, as it is now happening. At the outset, these amendments, so specific and localized, allowed the discussion in plenary to be scheduled as it was : in an exceptional manner, without debate in the parliamentary committee, with the exhaustion of deadlines for the submission of proposals. Everything was very fast and simple, because simple was the bill. These are only when the proposed amendment of the PS Parliamentary Group to the Government's diploma appears and new issues are raised: the role of the Public Finance Council; the regular evaluation published by the PSC and the ex post evaluation that should be included; the detection of significant discrepancy affecting the macroeconomic forecasts and the measures to be followed. More: the combination of the Stability Programme with the Big Options Act, which constitutes the medium-term budget framework, which includes the current year and the following four years, will further link the options of the Assembly of the Republic in subjugation to the European Commission's taxes. These and other matters of substance, which do not even fit into the three minutes we have to intervene, have completely changed the debate itself of what is at stake in this process. Clearly, this was the Government's initial proposal and there would be no consensus to schedule the debate and vote on this matter in this way. As for good faith in the scheduling of legislative proposals, we are clear and the government is presented.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u149	Exactly! All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is necessary to refuse ideas and proposals which serve to arrest the framework of budgetary options in more or less symbolic or media sectoral categorizations. It is necessary to take an integrated and coherent view of the State budget and its legislative process. That is why we also reaffirm that it is necessary to take account of a perspective not of hierarchy, but of dynamic linkage between the budgetary process and the debate of the Great Options. We therefore reiterate that the moment of discussion of the Law of Great Options must coincide with the debate of the State budget, without logics of facts reached, without the limitation of the parliamentary initiative. That is why we would not vote in favour of the bill as presented by the Government, because we continue to differ in this criterion from the debate on the Big Options first and the debate on the Budget then which has prevailed. This maneuver on 24. the time, with the PS Parliamentary Group to propose these amendments to the diploma, deserves not only criticism but opposition and vote against the CFP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u151	The absolute majority gives this!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u152	For an intervention, Mr Sérgio Ávila of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This bill, which amends the Budgetary Framework Act, submitted by the Government, essentially aims to give a body to that which constitutes an effective reality. There is, in fact, a pattern of expenditure whose profile is not necessarily linear throughout the year. in an exceptional situation, such as the one this year, it is not possible to adjust the payment plan to the twelfth regime, when the profile of this expenditure is not necessarily linear. There is nothing more to this bill than clarification and operationalization, from the point of view of the Budget Framework Act, of a reality. We're talking about very specific expenditure. For example, vacation allowance is not a linear expenditure, because it doubles staff costs in that month. Social benefits may vary depending on the needs and rights of beneficiaries. I also refer to debt charges and investment expenditure, because of course a public investment does not have a linearity of expenditure over the months. These concrete realities, now detected with the exceptional situation of the non-existence of the Budget, lead to this legislative clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u154	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u155	This fundamental, transparent and, essentially, rigorous legislative clarification in its objectives and in its content solely aims to ensure that an exceptional situation does not lead, for example, to the fact that public officials do not have the holiday allowance, as it could be if we did not have the Budget published until the middle of next month. It is to this concrete reality, to a specific problem of people, that this amendment gives an answer. With regard to the amendments tabled by the Socialist Party, they aim to strengthen the role of the Council of Public Finance in the verification of macroeconomic and budgetary forecasts,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u156	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u157	... strengthening its role in monitoring, rigour and, essentially, in detecting the need to change the forecasts made. In addition, they create greater clarity and objectivity in the medium-term planning instruments; they clearly define and characterize the medium-term budgetary framework; they create conditions for the multi-annual framework of public expenditure, which defines expenditure forecasts over four years; and they identify how it serves as the basis for drawing up annual budgets. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] More: they create the essential conditions for a particular year if the State budget does not correspond to the multiannual framework for public expenditure, the Government must, in the report of the Budget, justify deviations. These are, therefore, amendments that aim to strengthen the Budget Framework Act, strengthen the budgetary cycle and, essentially, make the budgetary process properly planned and that the medium-term instruments that the Government and the House have available and approve have effectively implemented in the preparation of each year's financial year, thereby strengthening the planning effort, the rigour and transparency of these documents. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u158	Mr Hugo Carneiro, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The PSD has closely followed the evolution of the amendments to the Budget Framework Act. It was not many months ago that we even made a quite relevant amendment, in which with the contribution of the Social Democratic Party it was possible to increase the level of scrutiny to the Government. We recognize that. However, it is necessary to go further. What we realize is that the government often uses formulas or envelopes to avoid providing information to which this Parliament is entitled or even to which independent entities, such as the Council of Public Finance, are entitled. To give an example, until today, the PSD awaits the Government's response — from the previous one, but extended under the same flag from the Socialist Party — to the question which then addressed to it on the weight of the proposals of the Communist Party adopted for the Budget for 2021. We asked how much these proposals weighed in the Budget. They never answered us and, having not been answered within the legal deadlines, we again insisted on the questions. When the opposition brings forward proposals for amendments to the State budget to the Government, 'Carmo and the Trinity fall'. They say it costs millions of euros. At the time, they said it cost EUR 1000 million. And did not the Council of Public Finance say that the proposals adopted for the State budget for 2021, of what was possible to ascertain, because it is not easy to ascertain, were only EUR 10 million? Oh, my God! Why? Because the government overbudgets the expenditure, does not execute the expenditure and repays the revenue, when it comes to receiving, later, much more revenue than that which was expected. If we could make any changes to this really relevant law, it had to be that of giving a calculator to the government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u160	The government can't keep an account. That's what we should offer the government! [[PSD applause.]] The Council of Public Finance itself is demolition in its analysis of the State budget approved for 2021. The Council of Public Finance states at a certain point that it has difficulties with access to information. The Socialist Party presented a proposal to give more power and information to the Council of Public Finance. You may give the powers you want by law, but you must comply with the law!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u161	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u162	The problem is that the government does not comply with the law, omitting information to the Public Finance Council. [[PSD applause.]] The Council of Public Finance even refers, in its report, in its analysis, to shortcomings in respect for the principle of budgetary transparency. If I was accused of something like that, I don't know where I was lying! [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] My gentlemen, the PSD proposes, firstly, that the level of information be increased when the State budget is already approved. We want to know how much the measures adopted by the State budget cost, especially when the government has to negotiate with the radical left. More: PSD does not give blank checks to the government. contrary to what the Secretary of State for Budget said, i.e. that the rule laid down in your proposal is not a blank check, I must contradict your argument. I challenge it, with its parliamentary majority, to approve the PSD proposal, which clarifys this matter when it says that these are the strictly necessary measures for the transitional budget to carry out the expenditure which is not likely to be implemented in the twelfth regime. I am launching this challenge to the Socialist Party: if you say it is not a blank check, then you approve the PSD proposal and we will approve the Government proposal. [[PSD applause.]] But if the PSD proposal goes down, we will not vote next to the PS. I think you should think very well, because the Budget Framework Act is not any law. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u163	Mr Rui Tavares of the Free Party has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u164	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Book accompanies the need for amendments to the Budgetary Framework Act, as it accompanies, moreover, the initiative of Members of the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira to extend these amendments to these Autonomous Regions, as it will favourly vote on the NAP proposal to adapt the Budgetary Framework Act to what is already in the climate law. It is precisely in this intersection, between the Budget Framework Act as a greater control framework for budgetary implementation and climate issues, which would like to express a concern about the book. For the State Budget for 2020, the Free will has reached agreement with the Government on the creation of a mission unit for the new green pact, i.e. for monitoring the energy and climate transition. He never left the paper! For the State budget for 2022, we will re-propose this initiative and hope to reach agreement. Mr Secretary of State, it is important to be aware that, with the possibilities given to us, both by the law of implementation of the budget, this time is actually to leave the role to have this unit of mission in effect and, in this way, we can then follow the State budget for 2023. I therefore hope that this message will go well within the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u165	The Bureau has no further requests for speech at this stage of the debate, so I ask whether the Government wants to use the ability to move to the closure, for which it has 3 minutes and 33 seconds, 2 minutes for the closure and 1 minute and 33 seconds for the time left. [[Pause.]] The Secretary of State for the Budget, therefore, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank everyone for their contributions. The Budget Framework Law is a law which, by its nature, is very favourable to consensus when we change it. Therefore, we have all the availability that, within our standard of amending this law, in an attempt to accommodate, of course, everything that is increased transparency and whatever is compliance with other laws of enhanced value, such as climate law, we can do it, but in a way studied and in order to ensure that what is left in the Budget Framework Law is capable of being implemented, because only in this way can we work well together. I would like to mention and stress again, because I think it is important, that what we propose with these amendments to the law is nothing more than fulfilling the commitments that the Portuguese State has already made. It's not a blank check, it's something that has to do with all the commitments that have already been made. I hope, therefore, that this clarification will be sufficient, but if it is not...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u167	What about our proposal? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u168	Mr President, the PSD proposal has two components: one that speaks of the strictly necessary to ensure the twelfth and the other that does not even talk about the part of the twelfth in particular. So, in conclusion, I would like to clarify that by this law we want — without prejudice, of course, to all the approaches we may have in the field of specialty — no more than to ensure the payment of the commitments that the Portuguese State has made. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u169	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded the second item on the agenda. There is no reason why we should not faithfully follow the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic and there will therefore be a vote at 12 noon. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they intend to do so, to mobilize their Members to do so. However, on a matter of consistency, I propose that we start the third item on the agenda, with the intervention of the Government and any requests for clarification and answers, and then we shall proceed to the vote. We then move on to the third item on the agenda: debate on the National Reform Programme, with the joint assessment of the Resolution Projects 7 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Forecast in the National Reform Programme - 2022 of adaptation of the National Water Plan to climate change, as a measure to combat drought, 38 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government that, under the National Reform Programme - 2022, implement a national animal reception network, 39 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government, in the National Reform Programme - 2022, set up a free river action plan, cleared and strengthened monitoring, control and assessment of river pollution, 40 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Recommends that the Government implement a national growth programme and 41 / XV / 1. a (L) — Fundamental gains as a guiding principle for reforms. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who stand up to sit down, creating conditions for us to move forward with the work. To open the debate, I give the floor to Ms.Minister of the Presidency, Mariana Vieira da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u170	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The National Reform Programme ( PNR ), which we are discussing today, corroborates the Portugal 2030 Strategy, which, remember, falls within the Strategic Vision for the Portugal 2020 – 2030 Economic Recovery Plan. This Strategic Vision was a document developed at the request of the previous Government, which was the subject of a wide process of debate and auscultation open to all civil society. After hearing the social partners and other political, economic and social actors, the Government approved the strategy that fits the measures contained in the various financing instruments, from the Recovery and Resilience Plan to the State Budget. it responds to the challenges facing the country, in view of an investment cycle opened by the European approval of the instrument of recovery and resilience and by the negotiation of the new framework of Community funds. The complementarity and coherence between the different instruments are illustrated extensively in this National Reform Programme. This programme is structured around four key agendas. The first agenda — a better demographic balance, greater inclusion, less inequality — therefore people first aim to respond to the demographic challenge and achieve an inclusive and less unequal society. The second agenda — digitisation, innovation and qualifications as drivers of our development — promotes lasting and sustainable growth in the Portuguese economy, driven by skills, knowledge, digitalisation and innovation. The third agenda — climate transition and resource sustainability — aims to make efficient use of resources available to economic and social actors, respecting the environment and with greater ambition than the climate transition requires. The fourth agenda — an externally competitive and interconnected country — aims to enhance the external competitiveness and cohesion of the national territory with a particular focus on low-density territories. This National Reform Programme, developed in the context of the European Semester, also illustrates the coherence of national policy measures that respond to specific recommendations by Country addressed to Portugal. Funded by the largest volume of European funds ever made available to Portugal, this strategy will allow to accelerate a path that has been followed since 2015 with significant progress: progress in economic growth, in which Portugal has recorded a convergence path with the European Union average between 2016 and 2019 together with the improvement of indicators related to research and development, as well as the evolution of the profile of the national productive tissue; progress in the labour market, which highlights the reduction of unemployment, but also the improvement of the quality of employment and the sustained increase in wages; progress in combating social exclusion and inequality, illustrated by the marked improvement in the generality of indicators that measure inequality, poverty and material deprivation; and progress in qualifications, with significant developments both in the rate of school drop and in the proportion of population with completed higher education. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The path we have made in qualifications, innovation, social cohesion, investment puts us before a historic opportunity to accelerate the dynamics of changing the Portuguese development model, a model of development based on innovation, the development of products and services of high value added, as well as the diversification of our productive structure, and a model of development that approaches our levels of well-being of European standards, a level of well-being that the government ambitious and to which Portuguese are entitled. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u171	Mrs Minister, two Mrs have signed up to request clarification. Ladies and gentlemen, the first is Mr André Pinotes Batista, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u172	Mr President, first of all, I would like to congratulate you and, in your own person, the honourable Members. Members of the Government, as well as the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. Madam Minister, it is worth making a framework for how this National Reform Programme has emerged and what its nature is. We had to look at 20 years of stagnation, we had to look at 20 years of non-growth and we had to think what we wanted to design for a decade. This serious and constructive way of making politics is much more recognized by Portuguese than is sometimes recognized in these bubbles where populisms are inflamed, in which soundbits are inflamed, but in which there is no deep reflection on the country. Mr Minister, in fact, the qualification of Portuguese, the innovation of our economy, the modernisation of the state, the measures of corporate capitalization and the strengthening of social cohesion were central axes of this reflection and they also had a strengthening because long-term plans should not make us stop looking at each moment and adapt. It is in this sense that also in tourism, housing, energy, forests and civil protection this reflection was made, at the time it had to be done, because it is a path that we are making learning. Mrs. Minister, allow me to do this. How can we discuss with a right who, stubbornly speaking, continues to talk about reforms and to reflect on reforms that only impose pain on our citizens and who only talk about lowering taxes, especially on businesses? [[P.S.'s applause.]] How can we continue to talk to those who have transformed the word reform, so important for our country, into a way to print suffering? I look at a group of Members, who were in the government at the time of the troika and who had for doctrine and strategic reflection take us far beyond these dictates, and even for others who have left these lines to invent new rows, and I see them with this issue. We have a much more humanist view. For us, these are measures for the development of our economy, but also of our society and our territory. Therefore, I ask you, Minister, how important this is. But, Madam Minister, there are two issues that are sometimes forgotten and that we understand very well why: we are accused of not having enough reformist momentum by the same people who want to ignore the disastrous effects that the greatest pandemic of the last 100 years has had on our economy, our lives and our families, and also by those who want to ignore that the war, which we currently go through, has had tremendous impacts on economic chains, but also on inflation. In fact, let me emphasise and share the view that the work that has been carried out before has given robustness, resilience to our economy, our businesses and our families to suffer less from these two severe constraints, but at the same time we will recover more quickly. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Madam Minister, I conclude with a note of the greatest importance, asking you what the Government attaches to the tremendous participation that was possible in the development of this plan and whether the pandemic, as we believe it has witnessed, has not in any way limited the participation of civil society. As much as they do not want to see the strength of what we have done, as much as they want to reduce the strength of what we have to do, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group continues with tremendous confidence that we are in the right direction. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u173	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before giving the floor to Mrs Rita Matias, I must correct some information I gave recently. I was informed that the parliamentary custom is that the votes take place at the end of the current debate and, as the custom is a source of law, consulted all parliamentary groups, so will be done. I now give Mrs Rita Matias the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, today we are discussing a very well-written and politically well-written technical document, but whose application in the lives of ordinary people is tragic. This is a document that is, in fact, only one sub-chapter of a larger document. And I speak of Agenda 2030, created at the United Nations Conference in 2015, an agenda that takes as its goal the end of poverty, save the planet, achieve peace, but which, in fact, has been translated only into an increase in war scenarios, an increase in poverty and a planet where 99% of the population breathes polluted air.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u175	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u176	It is important to say that the environmental discourse was supported by the progressive left, currently serving only and only, to build a model of poor and dominant society, a socialist and Marxist model that is so expensive to Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Congrats from the CH.]] But we are here to say that there is nothing more patriotic than loving our country, wanting to protect it, respecting its resources and trying to leave to younger generations a country richer than that which we have found and which we have today.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u177	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u178	And if others do not, we denounce that this government wanted to be such a friend of the environment and so fulfilling these agendas, but actually begs for agreements with the most polluting country in the world, China, which is not the most basic human rights that respect. We already realize that, for our rulers, the color of money does not matter, but we must say that this document perpetuates only the hypocrisy of the false socialist environmental concern. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u179	It is that in recent years, the Socialist Government has managed only to increase energy dependence from outside. As long as coal plants are reopened in Germany, the PS government continues to ignore the war scene and the year of drought, closing down power stations like that of Sines to import energy from Spain. In view of this scenario, what does this document tell us about energy sovereignty? Absolutely nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u180	Nothing! [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u181	This rush to burn stages and want to look like good students out there in these matters has one reason: we are poor and we are on hand extended to Europe. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The latter governments have limited themselves to increasing the tax burden on the creation of so-called 'green taxes' to save the planet, disregarding the suffocation of Portuguese businesses and families with so many taxes and taxes. It is that in 2021 there were more than 600 environmental rates, always with this socialist spirit to level society below and impose forced equality. Is fiscal opportunism enough, and that is why I ask you, Minister: will you continue to follow this globalist strategy that takes away sovereignty, in particular energy sovereignty, and suffocates Portuguese people with more taxes? It's just that it's no use saving the planet if we don't have it and killing people. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u182	In reply, you have the floor of the Minister of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u183	Mr President, perhaps I would start by answering the two requests for clarification that have been addressed to me by highlighting the questions that have not been asked to me.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u184	They did, they did!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u185	It is true that if in all the debates — as in the previous debate — the Government is faced with the idea of a lack of strategy, when a strategy is presented and we need to discuss it, there are two requests for clarification, and I cannot but highlight it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to the idea that nothing progresses and that the country always presents negative indicators, now responding to Mrs. Deputy of the Arrival,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u186	It has a name: Rita Matias!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u187	... I repeat, to Mrs Rita Matias, Member of the Arrival, I would like to point out that: Portugal today has historic peaks in the financial autonomy of companies; Portugal today has a capacity to attract foreign investment as it has never before; in recent years, we have recorded a 23 % increase in the net average monthly income of Portuguese and 40 % in the national minimum wage; the weight of research and development ( & D) as a whole of our wealth rose from 1, 24 % to 1, 62 % in 2020; and we have a reduction in school drop—and I am sure that the honourable Member does not devalue it as he devalues the other arguments— below 6 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u188	And we have corruption too!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u189	The truth is that the path made so far shows that we have the ability to capture foreign investment and also shows that Portugal is today much better placed in relation to the future, with higher qualifications, with greater innovation, is the country of the European Union better placed to meet the climate goals to which we are obliged,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u190	What about energy sovereignty?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u191	...is the 4th. the safest country in the world and is a country that has made remarkable progress in terms of wealth and its distribution, quality of life, climate action. This is the way that you are. Ladies and gentlemen reject... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...and perhaps that is why they make such a negative portrait — to which they insist on calling patriotic — of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u192	It's the wonderful country!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u193	The path we make in the area of energy through the bet on renewables is our greatest guarantee of energy sovereignty,... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u194	And when it's not sun or wind?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u195	... is the answer that most defends us from the increase in energy prices that other countries in Europe face — far higher than those in Portugal — is a highly criticised bet for many years, but which, in fact, is more and more a correct bet.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u196	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u197	Mr André Pinotes Batista, the path that the country has made and which makes it possible that we face the future with greater optimism is a relevant path, it is a path that has a unique feature that distinguishes us from the proposals made by the right: it offers an answer to all Portuguese, without leaving anyone behind. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u198	We will now move on to the stage of presenting the draft resolutions which are also scheduled for this item on the agenda. To present the draft resolutions of the NAP, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u199	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present: The National Reform Programme, as a strategic document for the development of the country in the medium term, should list a set of structural reforms for all levels and sectors of the country's life, in line with the principles of sustainable development. In the proposal that the Government brings us here, there are several measures allegedly oriented towards responding to the structural blockades that the country has faced, by the impact associated with the health crisis, but also by the military invasion of Ukraine by Russia and its macroeconomic impacts. This National Reform Programme points to robust economic growth without, in fact, realising the necessary structural measures that are based on the fulfilment of this same projection, also being injured by contradictions in essential areas, starting with environmental matters. It is true that it refers to a climate transition agenda and sustainability and to the need for strategies for the expansion of renewables and the improvement of energy efficiency, but insists on defending the expansion of irrigation, ignoring — or wanting to ignore — that half of our territory, increasingly desertification, is at risk of extreme drought as a result of the inefficient use of water that we have done over time and ignoring too — or wanting to ignore — the deeply harmful effects of intensive and superintensive agriculture, and, more seriously, wanting to do so by rooting it with protected areas. Precisely because water is a scarce and vital resource, the National Water Plan should be updated and aligned with the fight against climate change, as the NAP proposes in a project dragged with this National Reform Programme. It is in this sense that we should know whether the Government will or will not be consistent with what it propagates in the campaign, in particular elections, with international bodies and whether the Socialist Party, which supports the government, will or will not follow this proposal of the NAP. The PNR for 2022 can and should also provide an opportunity for, as well as for the NAP, to move forward with an action plan « free rivers », by removing dams and other obsolete infrastructures throughout the country to ensure the free movement of rivers and the recovery of river ecosystems for coastal defence ; moreover, we must also have a programme of depollution them, insofar as today, at the time we point out World Earth Day, it is essential to operate this paradigm shift. Finally, the PNR is totally oblivious to animal protection and welfare, and that is why we propose that a national animal reception network should be set up to lift all the animals capable of receiving animals and to invest in improving collection centres, fulfilling an obligation that is about 100 years old. I conclude by saying that, for the operation of this paradigm, we need to be aligned with the various objectives, and not just propagate them in the House of Democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u200	To present the draft resolution of the Liberal Initiative, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This legislation has begun atypically, either by the urgency of making the budgetary process, either by the need to comply with European Union procedures, in conjunction with the dramatic reality of war in Ukraine and its impacts, as many would like to deny it. in this chaos of European budget documents and procedures, the National Reform Programme emerges, which is another opportunity to examine the will and capacities of this government. Last week, in the debate on the Government Programme, I highlighted several factual considerations on how the PS manages the country and the lives of all of us. The Socialist Party demonstrates incompetence, denial of reality, immobilism, statism, inability to simplify and, unfortunately, an absolute lack of courage to reform. In short, the Socialist Party has no idea how to grow Portugal. [[Applause from the IL.]] But justice is being done, this National Reform Programme brings a novelty: it shows that they are able to succeed in some diagnoses, perhaps because they are hit by reality, that they insist on denying, or simply because they cannot deny the recommendations of the European Commission. Now, let's see, and I'll make a few citations from the National Reform Programme. On companies and investments: « Investment, including investment in R & D, remains below the European average (... ), affirming itself as an obstacle to the acceleration of the country's structural transformation around activities with greater added value. » I wouldn’t say better. He continued: « As far as start-up companies are concerned, they have lower survival levels in Portugal than in other European countries — 56 %, compared with 69 % of the EU27(...). Their difficulties are very much linked to their sources of financing (... ). » Not only is the government hit by reality, as the intervention that the Minister has given has just been hit by the National Reform Programme itself. [[Rice from Mr. IL Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]] Or also: « (...) the national economy continues with a strong incidence of activities of lower intensity in technology and knowledge, detecting a business structure marked by small enterprises, without a strong industrial base (... ), weak financial robustness and low penetration of digital markets. Do not keep on seeking. ” But there is more: Portugal « in 2020 was only in 17. the place of the European Innovation Scoreboard, and the modernization of the Portuguese economy and the increase in productivity continue to be hampered by the small number of researchers and doctors in the business frameworks. Do not keep on seeking. ” And now on qualifications: 'The low average level of workforce qualifications continues to inhibit productivity, competitiveness and investment. Do not keep on seeking. ” Let us see the health on which we continue to hear from the PS Government the fallacy of « we left no one behind ». The Programme says: « The pandemic has also emphasized the relevance of the response capacity of health services to ensure access to health care, particularly in the face of the need to combine the response to the emergency with the normal functioning of the system (... ). Yes! ... Or: « (...) the public system still reveals weaknesses, especially in some specialties where there is greater demand pressure. » The reality means to tell you something that they deny. But I would like to believe that it is this, that it is this same, that it is this done, and that this will is indeed true. And I quote again the Programme: "(...) combating the structural blockades that persist and meet the new structural challenges associated with the pandemic require a new cycle of reformist policies. Do not keep on seeking. ” This is expressed in the chapter « Macroeconomic context and impact of structural reforms ». Here: « structural reforms», an expression that emerges in this document almost as a result of the pandemic. Just a pandemic to put the PS talking about structural reforms! [[Applause from the IL.]] And, speaking in structural reforms, I always remember Mr. Prime Minister's words, António Costa, in April 2017 when he said: « The expression ‘structural reforms’ affrights me. Any normal citizen is soon allergic. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Protests of PS Members.]] It is appropriate to decide whether they are accurate or they shudder. That is, the PS government can even recognize the reality, making the diagnosis, but it has allergy to the cure! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party has no idea how to grow Portugal. [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u202	Or it may be worse: the Socialist Party does not even want Portugal to grow! [[Applause from the IL.]] [[PS protests.]] Let us be fair: these diagnoses, which coincide with those of the Liberal Initiative, are a consequence of the recommendations of the European Commission, but once again the PS responses are insufficient or non-existent. It is a disarticulated programme—one more! — without effective growth policies — one more! So today, with this draft resolution, we again urge the PS Government to implement a national growth programme, a programme containing policies that make Portugal grow, a proposal we are presenting today. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : There is an alternative to the social and economic stagnation and the immobilism of the PS government, and this alternative is liberalism, because Portugal really needs to grow. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u203	We move on to the intervention stage. To that end, Mr Jorge Mendes of the Democratic Social Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u204	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The National Reform Programme 2022 presents a medium-term strategy for Portugal, describing the public policies that, in the view of the Government, meet the main economic and social challenges facing the country and structuring itself around the agendas of the Portugal 2030 Strategy, to be implemented within the framework of the PRR and Portugal 2030, whose final version, sent to Brussels, is not yet known to this House, Ms. Minister. According to the Government, the National Reform Programme 2022 presents a renewed — repeat, renewed — ambition to accelerate the structural transformation of the country, a plan whose effects and own implementation will manifest over the current decade, a substantial part of which, perhaps the main, after 2026. As a result, the PSD Parliamentary Group considers it unacceptable, or not appropriate, that this House and the Members of Parliament are not acceptable. Members have only received this plan three days before their discussion. We accept that this is due only to the conjunctural timings of the beginning of governance. This plan presents itself as the summation of a large set of measures — structured, of course, some of them even deserving of our support — to implement the European funds, of some EUR 40 billion, at the disposal of Portugal over the next decade. However, given the experience of the PS governments in the implementation of Portugal 2020, many of the measures submitted for the period 2022 - 2026 will be implemented only after 2026. Or will the SIMPLEX of the European funds announced in the Government Programme make a difference? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the proposed plan, called the National Reform Programme, is not really a reform plan, as the government wants us to believe. But it seems like a "therapeutic symposium" of measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u205	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u206	Do the PS governments in the words of their Parliamentary Group, the stamp, or the brand, of reformists? Was it not the Prime Minister, António Costa, who, when confronted with the absence of reforms, said that the real reform of the state was the decentralization of competences for municipalities? Has this reform been successful, Minister? Is this reform completed, Minister? It is with this plan of measures proposed by the Government that we will overcome the structural constraints that Portugal faces, which is possible only with real reforms, which are always postponed. Otherwise, let's see: how to end the demographic winter that Portugal faces, especially in the interior? The appreciation of the interior is resolved by measures such as the one referred to on page 82, « presentation of the final report of the working group « Housing in the interior ', which includes a diagnosis of constraints on access to housing in the territories »? In the field of justice, in particular, Mrs Minister, the laxity and litigation in the administrative and fiscal area, which can, and can much — I repeat, can and can —, if nothing relevant is done, be a serious obstacle to the execution of the major investments of the PRR, are resolved with the generic measures listed in the plan? In 2021, Portugal reached a new maximum of the tax burden — 35, 8 % of GDP ( gross domestic product ). Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, how long is it possible to maintain this tax burden, which suffocates citizens and businesses in this country, for example, on fuels? A part of the PRR will be executed through the State budgets for 2022 and subsequent years. The practice of the PS governments in budgetary implementation leaves much to be desired, with successive delays in public investment, leading to the maximum of each new budget of the « now it will be ». I give examples of the 341 measures of the commitments made in 2019 - 2020 within the framework of the RPP, with the European Union, of which only 37 have been implemented, while the remaining more than 300 have been completed or delayed. But now, with this PNR 2022, believing in the words of the government, it really will be! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u207	For an intervention, Mr Pedro Coimbra of the Socialist Party now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u208	Mr President, Mr Ministers, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The National Reform Programme 2022 reflects the Government's strategy for the country's growth, aligning national public policies with European policies, of course. The PNR fulfils the dual role of contributing to the exercise of the European Semester and to the report of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism. In addition to meeting the recommendations addressed to Portugal, it also responds to the country's economic and social challenges, structuring around the 2030 Portugal Strategy and thus being aligned with the programmes for the modernisation and financing of the European Union's funds. Recognizing the positive socio-economic development of the recent past, the PNR renews its ambition for the present and the future, as it also recognizes that there is a long way to go. Accelerating the country's structural transformation and responding to the remaining social challenges are important priorities. That is why the PNR proposes a set of concrete measures to respond to the structural blockades that the country faces, but also clearly, to respond to the impact caused by the COVID. On the other hand, the NRP has strategic options resulting from the military invasion of Ukraine by Russia, which it has inevitably had, and will have, significant impacts, especially social and macroeconomic. The Portuguese economy is in a position to make a historic leap in its competitiveness, with more innovation and wealth creation, with the development of highly added value products and services. To this end, in the short term, a work between companies and the State is needed, a reinforced focus on levers for change and a set of concrete measures capable of articulating all these needs. Thus, after a broad public debate, which involved civil society and many entities, the PNR sets out four agendas of the Portugal 2030 Strategy, which are: i ) people first, with a better demographic balance, greater inclusion, less inequality; ii ) digitization, innovation and qualifications as drivers of development; iii ) climate transition and the sustainability of resources at the centre of political action; and iv ) external competitiveness and internal cohesion as fundamental priorities. This is the way that Portugal needs, this is what we are convinced of, and this is the path that the PNR proposes to us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u209	To speak in the debate and present your draft resolution, Mr Rui Tavares of the Free Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u210	Mr President, Ministers, Dear and Dear colleagues : All European countries present a national reform programme and then receive specific recommendations from the Commission. But Portugal makes a little different debate, doesn't it? While the others are discussing a national reform programme, we are talking about the need to have a new development model — and still well! Why do we need a new development model? Because the old man does not work — Portugal has lived for centuries in a model of imperial and colonial insertion, which is no longer available, because time does not go back, and yet! — and because the others who were on the table showed their failure very quickly. One of these models was that of what we can call « internal devaluation », the famous « cutting in unit labour costs », as if Portugal could prosper being a kind of China with fewer people. It's not working! That of isolationism also does not work, because it would only allow an external devaluation, which very quickly would put money in another devalued currency in the Portuguese pockets, which would serve to buy less and less. And the model of sailing in sight, expensive and expensive colleagues from the PS and the government, has also been seen that it doesn't work. So, what do we need for a new development model? We need: firstly, a strategy that, in the next 50 years of 25 April, does what the three Ds of 1973 and 1974 have brought us to the great milestones of our development; secondly, a great national debate — we look at, from South Korea to Ireland or Finland, all the countries that have jumped into their development path can be very different, but they all have one thing in common, which is to know how to have an extended social debate, outside the walls of Parliament, to identify their strategies, their economic niches, their areas of expertise in which they want to invest; and thirdly, of objects of political desire. This debate is not in theory, it is in practice. When we say that Portugal must be at the forefront of ecological, social and economic development, when we say that mere convergence with the European Union's average is no longer enough, it is because we know that we need to have a very ambitious long-term vision for people to return. This, for the Free, has a name: it is the economy of knowledge and decarbonization, of high added value, the only one that is able to raise wages, have more sustainable social security and, through a collection of more fair and progressive taxes, finance universal public services of very high quality. That's what attracts more people. Dear and dear colleagues, I conclude by saying that there is nothing more important in this Parliament than to realize that if we do not do the debate over these four and a half years to make Portugal a sustainable and avant-garde country in the European Union, there is no other recipe for us.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u211	For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u212	Mr. President, Mr. Ministers, Mr. Members: Unfortunately, we are again discussing a document that is more of the same, which has no real objective to solve the problems of the country and of those who live and work here, and which, like the Stability Pact, is included in the rules of submission to the Brussels taxes, through the country-specific recommendations of the European Semester, which do not go beyond the support of the major economic groups, multinationals and the power directory of the European Union. The European institutions decide what is appropriate for their owners, they tell their countries and governments — without hiding any blackmail — what to do and the successive governments obey and submit such documents. It is another scene to which the Government submits itself, which realises that we are dealing with reforms necessary for the development of the country and no longer a pro-forma for bureaucrats to see. The proclamations of the Programme can be virtuous, but they lack correspondence to concrete policies that serve the Portuguese people. Let's see how this translates. The National Reform Programme says that the Portuguese economy must « make a historic leap in its development path and give shape to a model based on technological innovation ». All right. What does the Government propose to reverse today's economic model, based on low wages, increasing working hours and over-exploration of workers? It proposes and opts precisely for the same. The Programme says that there is a need for « a better demographic balance, greater inclusion, less inequality ». All right, that's it. There's no doubt about it! But this is not done by giving alms, rather than dignity, in wages, in access to housing, in the rights of parents and children. How do children’s parents combat social exclusion or child poverty without paying their children’s wages?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u213	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u214	How does birth rise without giving stability, career prospects, job prospects for the younger? That's pure fantasy! The Programme also advocates the « resilience of the health system », but very resilient have been the SNS (National Health Service ) and its professionals faced with a strategy of dismantling by default. The Programme advocates digitisation, innovation and qualifications as « development engines ». Yes, but what does it do to transform the process of digitisation into something else that does not mean — especially with regard to public services — less workers, less means, more disadvantaged workers and therefore worse public services? [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u215	« More qualifications», they say. With disinvestment in public school, with 28 000 students without teachers, with the exclusion of the poorest of higher education, with tips and lack of scholarships, with underfunding, with our researchers in greater precariousness? This programme also speaks to us in the climate transition, sustainability, and very well. But is it to repeat the film to close the Matosinhos refinery, as the European Union wanted, to stop producing and import, with equal or greater environmental impact, while Germany and other countries intensify coal production, for example? Who does your transition serve, after all? The Programme wants « an externally competitive country ». We only know that your concept of competitiveness is reduced to low wages and tax bills to multinationals, while small businesses are crushed by production costs. And why? Because the government does not have the courage to face the energy sector, the bank, the insurance sector, among others, by refusing, for example, to prevent speculative price increases in fuels and in large distribution, which are much before the war, as we well know. A country "internal cohesive"? Very urgent. But on regionalization, they say nothing, they only rule out responsibility for municipalities in matters such as education, housing, health, without a corresponding word. So only asymmetries will increase, Mr. Ministers. Do you want to do so with a railway plan that is eternally in the process of completion, while trains are still missing in the line and lines in the territories? No bet on the workers? It's just that trains don't go alone and they don't do it alone either! And those we bought out could be made here,
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u216	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u217	... if it had not been deindustrialized, under the command of the Brussels recommendations, which are reproduced here again today. The results are in sight. Haven't the fans' examples come up and now the wheat? How does the same formula continue to be applied blindly? We cannot continue to have a model based on low wages and low technological incorporation, which neither serves nor works nor economic development. The Government insists on the loss of real purchasing power, with wages and pensions being far below inflation and also far below the growth of labour productivity. How can you speak of structural and substantive reforms if no urgent measures can be taken? No real increases in the purchasing power of workers and pensioners, no reduction in the VAT on electricity and gas to 6 %, no imposition of limits on the prices of fuels or essential goods, no public network of day care facilities or measures to retain health professionals. What's needed... [[It's encouraging the malt!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u218	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u219	... is the valuing of work and combating precariousness; lack of dynamization of the internal market; lack of oxygen for SMEs (micro, small and medium-sized enterprises); lack of national production; lack of exports where imports abound; lack of hand in strategic sectors; lack of public investment and development leverage; lack of investment in health, in public school, in scientific innovation; lack of social equipment; lack of real value and encouragement of dimensions such as culture, sport, associationism, which are also dimensions of democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u220	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u221	Finally, Mr President, I must say that, unfortunately, this is the Programme not of solutions, but of the worsening causes and of servitude to interests contrary to our country. It's seen that this absolute majority serves everything but the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u222	To speak on behalf of the Block on the Left in the debate, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u223	There she is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u224	Mr President, Mr Ministers, Mrs and Mrs. Members : I confess that I always have some difficulty in discussing these types of documents, in which the Government is perturbing several measures of its current governance to fit the axes, in the areas, in the recommendations imposed by Brussels. And this difficulty increases because this list of measures is always wrapped up in the jargon of the moment, in the most modern jargon, in the jargon that is most used and which can be more pleasing to the European institutions. The Programme says it wants to intervene on the country's structural problems. And then we find in the Programme: the word'resilience' 78 times—is the word of fashion, nobody wants to avoid—;'sustainable' 98 times;'sustainable' 81 times;...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u225	And 'exclusivity'?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u226	... ‘qualifications’ 146 times; ‘digital’ 262 times. Interestingly, in this Programme, which wants to solve the country's structural problems: the word 'wages' appears 7 times; the word 'races' appears 8 times;...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u227	And 'exclusivity'?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u228	... the word 'precautionary' appears 5 times; the words 'public services' appear 25 times, but almost half concerns the digitisation of public services. Finally, the words are daughters of their time, but the structural problems of the country remain, and we do not find concrete commitments in this Programme with structural reforms—yes, because the country needs structural reforms—emergency: reforms to increase the quality of public services and expand its capacity for intervention and response; reforms to reshape productive transformation, environmentally more capable, and to circumvent and combat climate change; reforms to increase people's living conditions. There are a few issues that I would like to address. First of all, I mean the housing. This theme is much talked about in the Programme, which is presented as if the pandemic had not passed through our country. The housing needs — these 26 000 fires that are identified — are the same as 2018, as if the pandemic had not left behind a disaster of poverty and overcrowding of housing. The 3000 fires that will be built under the Access to Housing Support Programme will not reach half of what is planned for 2024 by 2023. We continue without understanding what the government's plan is, that it wants to build houses, but does not fulfill what it promises, to control the increase in prices in housing. Today we are faced with an annual inflation of 4 %, but since 2015 the increase in housing prices was 75 %. Inflation in housing has long begun, but, looking at this Programme, there is no reform there that the law of rent needs, there is not there the regulation of the law of housing—which had to be done—there is no strategic reflection on the role of tourism or local housing and how they interfere with access to housing. We are also talking about research and development. In 2020, public expenditure in research and development per person in Europe was €225 — average of the European Union — more than 22 % in 2010 ; in Germany, the German State spends €443 per person in research and development ; in Portugal, this expenditure was €71 per person, and in 2010 it was €91. Therefore, the government has not even been able to monitor this trend and reverse the reduction of public investment per capita in Portugal, and it has now promised that it will do what it has not done over these years: increase public spending on research and development to 3% of GDP. It happens that only 1 % is public expenditure, the rest is private expenditure in research and development — I would say until this is a model quite similar to what the Liberal Initiative has defended here. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] This model has a name, called SIFIDE (the system of tax incentives in research and business development) and is a system of tax benefits to development which has already cost taxpayers EUR 2800 million, on which they prevent suspicions of waste and abuse and which is being exploited by investment funds without any return to the development of the country. Finally, Madam Minister, I am referring to just one more example of this document of empty promises: that of informal caregivers. It tells us that in 2022 « the extension of the Statute of the Informal Caregiver to the whole country », which was provided for by the law of 2017 which the Government has regulated, but in which it has placed so many obstacles, which it is unable to grant to an informal caretaker in this country. That is why, Minister, the country needs, indeed, structural reforms. What we think is that this is an empty program, wrapped up in a very modern jargon. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u229	To speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u230	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is a moving thing to hear the Minister in Parliament today — now as number two of this government, which was shorter, but which is not as short as she seemed — talking about reforms. If we look at this plan, we soon realize one thing: there is no reform here, no vision, no strategy. This is a document which was made and ready to send to Parliament and which, therefore, with an absolute majority, can now deliver a day before, or two days before, or three days before, because, if the debate is done, it is approved by an absolute majority of Members. There is no way, there is no prosperity, there is no strategy for the way the government wants to go to Portugal. She speaks of the Minister in demographic balance — the demographic balance of a country that does not stop aging and that only saves itself at the expense of immigration that VV. Ex. they want to introduce into Europe without any control and without any filter,... [[Congrats from the CH.]] ... immigration in which they want to leave Europe completely open, thanks to crime, the destruction of jobs and the destruction of borders. It is said, in the document delivered by V. Exa, of an externally competitive country. I would be ashamed to come here today to speak of an externally competitive country, a country for which the IMF (International Monetary Fund), last week, reduced the growth forecast to 4 %— 4 %! -,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u231	He said he was going to grow above the European average by 2027!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u232	... when they said, a few months ago, we were going to grow 5 percent. The overall competitiveness ranking pointed out that, in 64 countries, Portugal is today heading 43 in relation to economic performance. What a shame! In 64, we are in heading 43. This is the country to which we have been brought and where a minister comes to Parliament talking about the external competitiveness of the government. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] We are in position 38 in terms of government effectiveness — a total of 64! And here we have a minister, dear to this government, who does not apologize to the Portuguese for taking us to this abyss. She tells the Minister that this is the largest share of European funds that has ever been available to Portugal. It's true! But what a pity it is that the socialist government will execute them, because we already know that, with the socialist government, there is less transparency, there is less power of the Council of Public Finance and even the ranking of corruption we are able to descend every year. This is the government that will execute the funds without giving a word about justice and transparency. We already knew that Antonio Costa, here a while ago, had said it was frightening to talk about structural reforms. The speaker posted a newspaper. What we didn't know, we didn't even imagine, was that this government was so committed to structural reforms. Mrs. Minister, this is not a model of growth based on wealth and innovation, as I said. This model presented by the Government has two factors: wages and low pensions and high taxes. This is the model of the government: to remove the one who works, to remove the one who produces...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u233	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u234	...and give to those who do not want to do anything in this country, which is what they continue to do in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mrs. Minister, I'm sorry to address you in terms of what I'm going to do now, but I'm not going to stop saying that. A few years ago, I was sitting in this place a gentleman named José Socrates,... [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u235	I was missing! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u236	... that said, on the reform plan: "The PS is prepared to do the reform of the century. » In fact, they did not reform the century, but they gave the country the hecatomb of the century,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u237	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u238	...that took the troika to Portugal and everything we later know. I know that now Mr. Prime Minister is very upset with the engineer, or with the "engineer", who was in the Socialist Party, but will not fool the Portuguese. They can try to whiten the past, they can try to put José Socrates in some hole, but José Socrates will always be there, over all of you, like that ghost of the opera. He led us to the hecatomb of the century and also said he was going to make the reform of the century. This plan is this: it is the José Socrates plan, it is the hecatomb plan, it is the plan of destruction of the Socialist Party. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u239	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I inform you that we will open the system for quorum verification. However, for a second speech, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Alexandre Poço, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u240	Mr President, Mr Ministers, Mrs and Mrs. Members: What is the Portuguese economy? It is a low-competitive, low-productive economy with low investment levels and indebtedness levels for families, the state and high companies. These problems are not new, they are problems that are almost 20 years old, and this stagnation of two decades comes from the low potential growth of our economy. For our economy to grow more, it needs better investment, quality investment, particularly in the marketable goods sector. Investment is a critical variable to modernize the production system and thus give the Portuguese economy a breath capacity. We know well what has happened to Portugal and we know very well that this reality of the Portuguese economy is of no concern to the Socialist Party, as today we have had the opportunity to listen. The economic policy that the PS consistently defends, wherever it may be, is economic policy based on increasing public spending and increasing public and private consumption growth. Repeating the recipe for the past two decades is the promise of the Socialist Party's future and this National Reform Programme. But then, when we get to 2030, we can't be surprised to see that the results of the same recipe are not different. The results of the last years of the government of Antonio Costa have been very clear, and I can summarize them in three factors: a country walking to the tail of Europe, a country in which Portuguese can't go up in life and a country that, year after year, is overcome by countries that are just over 30 years old. [[PSD applause.]] We know that the country needed a real National Reform Programme. What, then, should this reform plan be dealt with? It should deal with: high costs in the context of our economy; a complex, unstable tax system with high tax obligations costs and, above all, with a very high tax burden; a system of slow justice, with high litigency costs; a lack of qualified technical and human capital skills in various sectors of the Portuguese economy; low competition in various sectors of our activity; rigidity and labour dichotomy, which particularly affect new generations; low private investment and low family savings; problems in enterprises, with small scale, low diversification, low capacity to export with high technological potential and added value; and above all, as has already been said, low link between science and businesses, which result in low patents and low levels of innovation; a system of social security and pensions that does not inspire confidence in young people and maltreats those who work for decades; and above all, a risk of high poverty, which affects five people, older and poor women and older. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u241	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, seriously reforming the country was reforming the public administration, the tax system, the costs of context and bureaucracy, justice in the economic sphere, the labour market, demography and birth policies or social security. The country very much needed a plan of bold, courageous and ambitious reforms, but what we have, with this National Reform Programme, is nothing more than a list of wishes to the Christmas Father, until we have passed the Easter. Unfortunately, we are well aware that with this path, the country cannot reform itself. They may have many chavons your plans, they may present plans behind plans, but unfortunately Portugal will continue to walk towards the tail of Europe. from the PSD, here we will be fighting to seriously reform Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u242	For a second intervention, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u243	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: It is up to me, in some way, to give the latest notes from the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group on this debate. After what would be called « anti-Brussels fantasies» of the benches next to the Socialist Party and somehow of the painful negation exercise of the one who was the contribution of the Left Block and the PCP in recent years to improve Portugal, I would like to concentrate on the observations on the right. I begin with a party that presented a draft resolution, the Liberal Initiative. I must begin by commending the courage of saying, in the presentation of this draft resolution, that the Government has no idea what it wants to do. And I say I want to praise the courage because the people should not understand: this is what the Liberal Initiative wants to do to reform Portugal... The speaker presented the draft resolution submitted by the IL. ...and this is what the government wants to do to reform Portugal. The speaker exhibited the National Reform Programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I confess that the people should not understand why he did not take advantage of the capacity of initiative, creativity, the energy of the Liberal Initiative to present a National Reform Programme which, in fact, interested the country and valued all the expressions he used in his speech. [[Rice from Mr Rodrigo Saraiva.]] The honourable Member may laugh, but the people do not laugh, because a page of half a dozen interventions, most of them avulges, and, above all, without a line of direction or a strategic vision, is not a National Reform Programme nor is it a serious guideline for the country. Therefore, you have to reply to the country in a clear way. What reforms has the country made and wants to make, do you want to stop? The honourable Member has presented half a dozen speeches and the question I am asking him is this: do you want to stop all the reforms that are in this National Reform Programme? Or which one do you want to lock? It is very important that you respond to the country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u244	As for the PSD, I must say that during this week it has been in limbo: it has come to the debate of the Stability Plan to say that the PS and the Government had presented a document of only 50 pages and presented a draft resolution, which does not even matter to comment; but it has come to the debate of the National Reform Programme, an important, significant plan with hands to shake, I would even say empty-handed! The previous Member should have suggested to his parliamentary group that he present at least one list — as did the Liberal Initiative — of some proposals on the National Reform Programme that the PSD wants for the country. I understand that the PSD has a complicated history in this matter, because there was a time when he said, for example, that in the PRR he knew exactly what he wanted to do. [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]] at that time, he even criticized PS because he had less money for companies, criticized PS because he had less money for health, criticized PS because he had less money for digitization. Now, when we went to see the PSD proposal, it was the PSD that had less money for companies, it was the PSD that had less money for health, it was the PSD that had less money for digitization. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, one thing is certain: you have reached the debates this week with no strategic vision and no proposals for the country. Finally, on the finish, I leave two notes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u245	There's no time!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u246	First, on climate action, we must say that the European Union is the first to say that Portugal is in line with this fight. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On economic growth, Mr Ventura, I already realized that the best thing is to bring some drawings, because the honourable Member does not at least distinguish what is divergence from what is convergence. [[CH protests.]] We may not be growing up as you would like — and as we too would like — but we are growing more than the European Union,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u247	Mr...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u248	...even if it costs the honourable Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u249	Mr...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u250	And Mr. Deputy didn't bring a single line either,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u251	Sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u252	...a single intervention on what it proposes to grow the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u253	Mr President, when I intervene, you have to stop and listen to me. I have to say that you have exceeded the time you had for your intervention. [[PSD and CH applause.]] Mr Rodrigo Saraiva has the floor for one speech, which has 50 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u254	Mr President, Mr. Carlos Pereira, I arrived here a short time ago, but I have followed the parliamentary work and am already used to these scenic numbers, so as not to give them another adjective. It is very good for you to come here, as a metric tape, to measure the program. I will not do it, nor will I forward it to the Liberal Initiative Election Program, which had 600 pages of added value. It is that I do not want proposals to grow here in the Assembly of the Republic. What I want is the growing country, which is what you don't want and can't do. [[Applause from the IL.]] Are you talking about reforms? In education? Nothing! This document, by National Reform Programme, has only its name. In education? Nothing! Do you want me to remember what they did in education? What happened at Lamas College, with your little friends there of management? You know what happened? Go study! And in health, they reformed what? What did you do in PPPs (public-private partnerships) with your little friends in management? Don't you remember? Go to Loures and see what's changed in three months. I could talk about many other issues, about justice, about the tax area... about reforms, this program has only its name. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u255	To close the debate, I give the floor to the Minister of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u256	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate has shown that the opposition can talk about the lack of reforms, but that does not mean that, when it is to do this discussion, here comes to question the development model and propose alternatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u257	It's not like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u258	It was good to understand the accusation they make to the government's speech and programme: if what they say is that the country is always pink or if what they say is that it will now be. The question is very simple: this document is a National Reform Programme, which identifies problems, recognizes progress and says what is missing to do. This is what is expected of a document like this. [[P.S.'s applause.]] One thing is right, we will never have the reforms that the country needs if we start from wrong assumptions and data, as much has been heard today from the benches on the right. The question is this: does Portugal not execute Portugal 2020? Of all countries with a significant financial package, Portugal is the most performing, with 70% of the reimbursed expenditure. It is the European country that has most executed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Portugal doesn't grow? So, but the data do not say that between 2016 and 2019, we grew seven times more than between 2000 and 2015? We say! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Would we like to have more students in higher education? I'm sure we'd like that! But do we or do we not have the highest percentage of students in higher education, and do we or do we not, in the last two years, live a crisis that is the first one that has not resulted in a reduction in the number of students in higher education? [[P.S.'s applause.]] It says the PSD lacks reforms for the sustainability of social systems, SNS and social security. We are not going to discuss what reforms the right has for social security, which we well know. But do we have more than 23 years of sustainability of social security today? We have! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]] Need to strengthen the Public Administration, says the PSD? It is good to look at the fall in the number of public officials that happened last time the PSD led the government...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u259	Same story again?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u260	... and to what happens now, with a recovery that is not only addressed to the sectors that need the most, as it is more qualified and based on competence centers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u261	Did the finance employees get it?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u262	Believe me, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I could continue to go through, one by one, the indicators that you have identified, but let's go to the underlying problem. And the basic problem is this: what is a reform for the Members. Right-wing Members and what is a reform for the government? You say there is no reform because you only recognize a reform if it causes pain, weakening of the state and a fundamental race in Portuguese rights. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u263	Mrs. Minister, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u264	I will finish, Mr. President. It is therefore natural that they do not recognize, in increasing income, in employment, in the sustainability of social security, in reducing school dropout, in the increase in the number of students in higher education, in the reform of minimum wages, in the reform of public transport or in the sustainability of energy, a reform, but this is reform and here we are to continue. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u265	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded the debate on the third item on our agenda, following the voting period. First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] We have quorum, so we can proceed to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let's start with the Vote Project No. 24 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by PS ) — Regret for the death of Joel Hasse Ferreira. As a former Member of this House, the draft vote will be read by a Member of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group. To that end, Mr Gil Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u266	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by congratulating Joel Hasse Ferreira's family present in the galleries. The draft vote shall be as follows: « Joel Eduardo Neves Hasse Ferreira died last March 18 in Lisbon. Born on 13 July 1944, in Lisbon, graduated in Civil Engineering by the Higher Technical Institute, PhD in Management Sciences at the University of Lyon and with additional training in Project Management in Stockholm and at Manchester Business School, Joel Hasse Ferreira was a professor at the University of Lusophone of Humanities and Technology, dedicated himself to teaching, notably as coordinator and director of ISCAD, Higher Institute of Management Sciences, having also taught in other higher education institutions in different areas of knowledge such as Management, Marketing and Communication, European Studies, Economics and Political Science. His deep and extensive knowledge gave rise to several literary works and to being invited lecturer in Portugal and in other latitudes of different continents. Their prestige and recognized competence as manager led them to hold public and private positions, including those of the President of the Institute for the Management of Social Security Capital Funds, President of the Board of Directors of the Lisbon Public Urbanization Company, President of the Marblerte Marble Company, trainer of the IPE and administrator of the Business of the Journal of Commerce. Courageous and a man of conviction, the fascist regime and colonial war had in Joel Hasse Ferreira a firm fighter who always defended freedom, democracy and fundamental rights. His dedication to democratic local power left indelible marks, particularly as President of the Municipal Assembly of Sesimbra, between 1990 and 1993, Mayor of the City Council of Sesimbra, between 1994 and 1997, and also as Vice-President of the City Council of Lisbon, between 1982 and 1985. Before taking up the role of Member of the European Parliament, which he played between 2005 and 2009, Joel Hasse Ferreira was one of the most distinguished parliamentarians in various legislatures. Member of the Assembly of the Republic in the Third Parliament, elected by the former Union of the Left for Socialist Democracy, was elected by the Socialist Party in the VI, VII, VIII and IX Legislatures that Joel Hasse Ferreira claimed to be one of the most brilliant parliamentarians of his generation. His frontality, loyalty and strength in defending the causes he embraced were always accompanied by respect for his opponents, which enabled him to grow friends and conquer the admiration of all. The death of Joel Eduardo Neves Hasse Ferreira is an irreparable loss for the country, for our democratic regime, for your many close friends and, above all, for your family. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, recalls the memory of Joel Eduardo Neves Hasse Ferreira and presents to his family the most heartfelt condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u267	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] I greet the relatives of our former colleague Joel Hasse Ferreira who are present in the galleries. Mrs. Members, we follow the draft vote No 34 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PS, PS, CH, IL, PCC, BE, PAN and L ) — To regret the death of Eunice Muñoz. I would ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u268	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He passed away on 15 April at the age of 93, Eunice Muñoz, a major reference of the Portuguese theatre of the 20th and 21st centuries, which marked, with an unparalleled talent, the Portuguese stages. Eunice Muñoz was born in Amareleja in 1928, within a family of actors, having early started his long and admirable career. He was professionally on stage with only 13 years old, with Vendaval, of Virginia Vitorino, a piece directed by his master, Amélia Rey Colaço, and Robles Monteiro. over 80 years of career, he made millions of Portuguese laugh and cry, who had the privilege of seeing to act. As it was his wish, he would finish his career in 2021 on the same stage where he debuted, at the National Theatre D. Maria II. In the theater, he worked with the majors, such as Palmira Bastos, Maria Matos, António Silva, Vasco Santana, Francisco Ribeiro ( Ribeirainho), Raul Solnado, Carlos Avilez, Filipe La Feria or João Perry, having stepped all the national stages. He has performed numerous authors, such as Tennessee Williams, Bernardo Santareno, Jean Racine, Euripedes, or Bertolt Brecht, to name just a few. From this last author, he would interpret one of the pieces of his life, Mother Courage and His Sons. He also distinguished himself in the cinema, where he arrived in 1946, with a role in Camões, from Leitão de Barros (for which he would win the prize for the best film actress of the year ), participating in several films throughout his life, such as The Morgadinha dos Canaviais, Caetano Bonucci and Amadeu Ferrari ( 1949 ), Manhã Submersa, de Lauro António ( 1980 ), or Difficile Times, by João Botelho ( 1987 ). In addition to theatre and cinema, Eunice Muñoz was also a remarkable presence on television, where he touched the hearts of many Portuguese generations, particularly through telenovelas, such as The Banqueira do Povo. Eunice Muñoz had an immense talent, whose flame would remain throughout the years, until the cloth fell, for, as she said, she loved life, and ‘love life is fundamental’. His vast career was widely recognized and distinguished, with multiple awards and tributes, as well as official distinctions, with emphasis on the recent Great Cruz of the Order of the Infante D. Henrique, in 2011, Great Cruz of the Order of Merit, in 2018, or the Great Cruz of the Military Order of Sant 'Iago da Espada, in 2021. Eunice Muñoz left on April 15, leaving the poorest national culture, which is symbolically marked by the national mourning decreed by the government. However, as with the larger figures, his example and his legacy will remain, and we must honor his memory, continuing to celebrate the theatre. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its deep regret at the death of Eunice Muñoz, paying tribute to the huge actress and figure of the national culture, conveying to his family and friends the most sorry condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u269	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] I greet the family of actress Eunice Muñoz present in the galleries. Mrs. Members, we move on to the Vote Project No 35 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by PS ) — regretting the death of Gastão Cruz. I ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to proceed with his reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u270	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « With the death of Gastão Cruz, Portuguese literature, language and culture lose one of their most important poets and essayists in the last century. Natural of Faro, where he was born in 1941, he was still very young, one of the cheerleaders of Poetry 61, with Casiiro de Brito, Fiama Hasse Pais Brandão, Luíza Neto Jorge and Maria Teresa Horta. From that time it was the publication of his first work, The Percutiva Death, starting point for a creative course of great relevance. He graduated from German Philology at the Faculty of Letters of the University of Lisbon, where he was a student of David Mourão-Ferreira. Early he collaborated with poems, essays and criticisms in various newspapers and magazines, including the Cadernos do Meio Dia, published in Faro under the direction of Antonio Ramos Rosa and Casimiro de Brito. Poetry 61 was one of the main contributions to the renewal of poetic language, although it constitutes, in its words, not a movement, but ‘a meeting of editorial convenience’. Former Democrat, participated in the student movement of 1962, having been arrested. In 1964, he was one of the organizers of the Antology of University Poetry, which gave him an important role in the dissemination, promotion and criticism of contemporary poetry, as well as of theatre and music, through the organization of antologies and direction of recitals. With Fiama Hasse Fathers Brandão, with whom he was married, he developed passion for the theatre, having both states in the genesis of the Theatre Today, in the early 1970s, which the poet directed until the extinction in 1994. He translated and lit pieces of Crommelynck, Strindberg, Camus, Tchekov, Shakespeare, as well as A Abelha in the Rain, by Carlos de Oliveira, who adapted to theatre. He was a high school teacher, served as a Portuguese reader at the King's College, and was one of the directors of the Luís Miguel Nava Foundation and the magazine Lampago. Gastão Cruz's work was marked by the valorization of the word, by seeking the ‘right weight for each word’, by formal accuracy and by the connection between sensitivity and reflection. As a great acquaintance of the Portuguese poetic tradition and Anglo-Saxonic creation, its poems and essays constitute examples of cultural vitality, cultivating the values of memory, freedom, reflecting in polarities such as love and death, body and place, hope and despair, daily and time. Thus, meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic pays tribute to the memory of Gastão Cruz, his talent, originality and attachment to a deep sense of humanity, addressing his heartfelt condolences to his family and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u271	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] I greet the family of the poet Gasão Cruz present in the galleries. Mrs. Members, let's move on to the Vote Project No. 36 / XV / 1. a ( presented by PS ) — Regret for the death of Madalena Sá and Costa. I ask Secretary Palmira Maciel to read it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u272	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He died on April 18, 2022, at the age of 106, Madalena Sá and Costa, the eminent Portuguese cellist, whose biographical and musical journey is confused with the history of music in Portugal in the 20th century. Daughter of the composer Luiz Costa and the pianist Leonilda Moreira de Sá, both disciples of the master Vianna da Motta, and net of the great violinist Bernardo Moreira de Sá, founder of the Conservatoire de Música do Porto and Orpheon Portuense, Madalena Sá and Costa grew up in an environment conducive to the practice and to musical and artistic reflection. In 1940, he completed the course at the National Conservatory, under the guardianship of Isaura Pavia de Magalhães, completing his formation with names such as Paul Grümmer, Sandor Végh and Pau Casals, among others. However, it is his meeting with Guilhermina Suggia, of whom he was a dileta disciple, who marks, deeply, his formation, and on whom he will always highlight his influence, admiration for his master and his rare characteristics as a pedagogue. He had a very long career as a cellist, marked by recitals and concerts, in Portugal and in foreign districts, in a journey often crossed with that of his sister, Helena Sá and Costa — extraordinary pianist with whom he maintained artistic collaboration for 50 years. The Symphony Orchestra of the National Emissora, between 1966 and 1984, was an instrumentist of the Chamber of the Symphony Orchestra of Porto, in 1970, and of the Musical Camerata of Porto, which founded, between 1979 and 1989. He won, among others, the prize Orpheon Portuense, 1939, Emissora Nacional, in 1943, Morrisson of the Harriet Cohen Foundation, in 1958, Guilhermina Suggia, SNI, ex aequo, in 1966, and played in orchestras under the direction of teachers such as Pedro Freitas Branco, Frederico de Freitas, Ivo Cruz, Fritz Riegger, Jacques Pernood, Gunther Arglebe, Ferreira Lobo, Pedro Blanch and Silva Pereira. His activity was not limited to musical interpretation in orchestras and groupings, having still built an important course as a teacher and teacher, in the conservatories of music of Porto and the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation, in Braga. It leaves us an invaluable legacy in the fields of musical pedagogy, interpretation and composition for cello. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its deep regret over the death of Madalena Sá and Costa, and expresses and addresses to its relatives and friends their most heartfelt condolences, giving him a deserved tribute. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u273	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we follow the Draft Vote No 39 / XV / 1. a ( presented by the PCP and signed by a PS Member ) — regretting the death of Jaime Serra. As an old Member of this House, it is up to the Parliamentary Group of the CFP to read out the draft vote, so it is for Mrs Paula Santos to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u274	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Featured communist leader and anti-fascist fighter, Jaime Serra, Member of the Constituent Assembly and Member of the Assembly of the Republic, died in Lisbon on 9 February, at 101 years of age. Jaime Serra devoted his life to the struggle for freedom and democracy and represented, by his courage and firmness, even under the most adverse conditions, an example for all the communists and Democrats who resisted and fought the long night fascist. Born 1921, in Alcântara, Jaime Serra began working in the civil construction at the age of 12, having entered the Arsenal do Alfeite in 1940, where he worked until 1947, the year in which he went underground and took on relevant CFP leadership tasks. PCP Militant since 1936, Jaime Serra was arrested for the first time at the age of 15. Between 1947 and 1958, he was arrested three times and three times managed to escape from fascist chains. The fourth and last prison took place in December 1958 and the last escape is the historical escape from the Peniche Fortress on January 3, 1960, having participated in its preparation, organization and direction within the chain with Joaquim Gomes and Álvaro Cunhal. In June 1962, he had a prominent role in the direction, organization and transport — where he participated directly — of the illegal exit of Portugal, by sea between Lisbon and North Africa, Augustine Neto and Vasco Cabral, to join the struggle for national liberation of their peoples. Between 1971 and 1974, he took responsibility for the organization and direction of the ARA, Armed Revolutionary Action. He was a Member of the Constituent Assembly and a Member of the Assembly of the Republic by the districts of Setúbal and Coimbra until 1983. Jaime Serra has published works that include the experience and experience of the political and partisan struggle and activity: They Have the Right to Know; The Explosions That Abated Fascism; The Abalo of Power; and 12 Escapes from Salazar Prisons. Meeting in plenary, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its condolences to the relatives of Jaime Serra and his party, the Communist Party Portuguese. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u275	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] I greet Jaime Serra's family here. We moved on to the Vote Project No 41 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by PS ) — Regret for the death of Antonio Maldonado Gonelha. As a former Member of this House, I would ask Mrs Edite Estrela to read the draft vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u276	Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « On 13 April 2022, the former unionist, Member, Minister and Manager Antonio Maldonado Gonelha died. Born in Lisbon, on June 9, 1935, Maldonado Gonelha stood out throughout his life as an example of courage and determination in the fight for Freedom and the construction of Democracy. Professional electrician, with training in electricity and radiotechnical, Maldonado Gonelha concluded the 4th. the Year of Higher Mathematics of the Faculty of Science. His civic journey begins in the trade union movement, even before 25 April, always believing in the role that trade union freedom should ensure in a plural democracy and in the dynamization of the country's economic, social and political life. In the National Union of Electricians and in the National Federation of Electricists' Unions, its active role makes him a prominent figure, even being designated to the Corporate Chamber as a voice of the general council of this union federation, between 1973 and 74, before the fall of the dictatorship. Already in Democracy, it remains linked to the union world and will play a leading role in the formation of the UGT. Politically active before and after the Revolution of Claws, Maldonado Gonella had an envious political journey, having played the most important public positions. In the first provisional governments, he was Deputy Minister of Transport and Communications and Minister of Industry and Assistant Secretary of State for Labour. Later, he was Secretary of State of Labour of the I Constitutional Government, Minister of Labour of the I and II Constitutional Governments and Minister of Health of the IX Constitutional Government. He was also a Member of the Assembly of the Republic in the I Parliament ( by the circle of Setúbal ), in the II Parliament ( by the circle of Leiria ), and in the III and IV Parliaments ( again by Setúbal ) and served as President of the Setúbal Municipal Assembly after the first municipal elections of 1976. It would be there, in fact, that would mark a large part of his journey in the Socialist Party, presiding over the respective District Federation, having also militated in the Oeiras council. His prestige and recognized competence as manager led him, later, to occupy public and private positions of leadership, integrating the administration of EDP, Petrogal, Quimigal, COVINA, Atlantic Forum, Lusitânia-Compania de Seguros and Montepio General, also chaired the Fundação Caixa General de Deposits. He was also president of the General Councils of the Hospitals of Santa Cruz and Miguel Bombarda and of the Hospital Group of Cascais José de Almeida. Citizens of strong convictions, Maldonado Gonelha was a natural person. Its many political and human qualities — unusual intelligence, great insight, organizational and work ability, enormous flexibility in human relations — have indelibly marked those who have deprived it and committed themselves to defending the values of freedom and democracy. It will therefore remain an example and an inspiration for all those who continue to build this path. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, recalls the memory of Antonio Maldonado Gonelha and presents to his family, friends and the Socialist Party the most sympathy. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u277	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] I greet the family of Antonio Maldonado Gonella here present. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, following the votes that we have just voted on, we will keep a minute of silence in honour of all of our fellow citizens. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We now turn to the general vote on the Bill No 1 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Consecrates a package of measures of an extraordinary and temporary nature to address the effects of rising fuel prices. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, IL, BE and L and with abstentions from CH, PCP and PAN.]] Mr Rui Cristina, are you asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u278	Mr President, to tell you that I cannot register.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u279	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real is also asking for the floor. To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u280	Mr President, to announce that I will deliver a written vote statement on the vote we have just made.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u281	It is also registered, Mrs. We shall proceed to the special vote on the Proposal for a Law No 1 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ). We begin by voting on the proposal by the PS amending Article 1 ( a ). The proposal of the law. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CH, IL, PCP, BE and L and the abstention from the NAP.]] It is as follows: ( a) Suspension of the minimum limits on unit rates of oil products tax ( ISP ) set out in Articles 92. o, 94. o, is 95. that of the Code of Special Taxes on Consumption ( Code of the IEC ), approved in Annex to Decree-Law No 73 / 2010 of 21 June 2010 in its current wording applicable to diesel and unleaded petrol.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u282	With the adoption of this proposal for an amendment from the PS, the vote on the proposal for an amendment submitted by the PSD, which referred to the same point in the same article, is detrimental.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u283	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u284	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u285	Mr President, I was just asking you to give us 20 seconds so that we can make a confirmation. I believe that the PSD proposal is not prejudiced.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u286	All right, Mr. Deputies. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u287	Mr President, the PSD proposal is damaged, yes. It has to do with an amendment that was made at the last hour.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u288	Therefore, it confirms the Bureau's reading that the vote on the proposal by the PSD amending Article 1 ( a ) is impaired. The proposal of the law. It was as follows: ( a) Suspension of the minimum limits on unit rates of oil and energy tax ( ISP ) laid down in Articles 92. o, 94. o is 95. the Code of Special Consumption Taxes ( IEC Code ), approved in Annex to Decree-Law No 73/2010 of 21 June 2010 in its current wording for diesel and unleaded petrol;
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u289	The vote on Article 1 ( a ) shall also be adversely affected. The proposal of the law. [[Pause.]] We shall then proceed to the vote on Article 1 ( b ). The proposal of the law. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE, the PAN and the L and the abstention from the CFP.]] We shall then vote on the proposal by the NAP amending Article 1 ( c ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PSD and the CFP were rejected, votes against the CH, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the IL.]] It was as follows: (c) Exemption from value added tax(VAT) on fertilisers, fertilizers, soil correctives and other feed products, birds and other animals when used in agricultural production activities and pet animals.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u290	We turn to the vote on Article 1 ( c ). The proposal of the law. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CH, IL, BE and L and with abstentions from the CFP and the NAP.]] It is now necessary to vote on the body of Article 1. The proposal of the law. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CH, IL, BE and L, votes against the CFP and abstention from the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the IL amending Article 2 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and the L, votes in favour of the CH and the IL and abstentions from the PSD, the CFP, the BE and the NAP.]] It was as follows: 1 — The values of the unit rates of the ISP, determined in accordance with Article 92. that of the IEC Code for Leadless Petroleum, CN code 2710 11 41 to 2710 11 49 and gas oil, CN code 2710 19 41 to 2710 19 49 may be fixed up to the minimum rate of zero euro and up to the maximum rate of ( euro) 359, 00 per 1000 l. and ( euro) 330, 00 per 1000 l. respectively.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u291	We shall vote on the proposal by the PS amending Article 2 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the IL, the PCP, the BE and the L, and abstentions of the CH and the NAP.]] It is as follows: 1 — The values of the unit rates of the ISP, determined in accordance with Articles 92. o, 94. o is 95. that of the IEC Code for Leadless Petroleum, CN code 2710 11 41 to 2710 11 49, and gas oil, CN code 2710 19 41 to 2710 19 49, may be fixed at the minimum rate of EUR 0.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u292	I think we can conclude that the vote on the proposal by the PSD amending Article 2 ( 1 ) is detrimental to the vote. The proposal of the law. It was as follows: 1 — The values of the unit rates of the ISP, determined in accordance with Articles 92. o, 94. o is 95. that of the IEC Code for Leadless Petroleum, CN code 2710 11 41 to 2710 11 49, and gas oil, CN code 2710 19 41 to 2710 19 49, may be fixed at the minimum rate of EUR 0.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u293	The vote on Article 2 ( 1 ) shall also be adversely affected. The proposal of the law. The proposal submitted by the PS to amend Article 2 ( 2 ) is hereby followed. The proposal of the law. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CH, IL, PCP, BE and L and the abstention from the NAP.]] It is as follows: 2 — Without prejudice to the provisions of the preceding Article, all legal and regulatory provisions relating to the value intervals of the unit rates of the PSI relating to Articles 92 shall apply. o, 94. o is 95. that of the IEC Code.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u294	The vote on the proposal by the PSD amending Article 2 ( 2 ) shall therefore be adversely affected. The proposal of the law. It was as follows: 2 — Without prejudice to the provisions of the preceding Article, all legal and regulatory provisions relating to the value intervals of the unit rates of the PSI relating to Articles 92 shall apply. o, 94. o is 95. that of the IEC Code.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u295	The vote on Article 2 ( 2 ) is also adversely affected. The proposal of the law. We shall then proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD to add Article 2 ( 3 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PAN and the L and votes against the PSD, the CH, the IL, the PCP and the BE were rejected.]] It was as follows: 3 — In addition to the measures authorised in the previous paragraph and the specific reductions to be fixed at port in the year 2022 and, if necessary, in subsequent years, the Government shall reduce the ISP in products with the codes referred to in paragraph 1, at a value equal to the additional charge of VAT in 2021 on the prices of fuels resulting from the increase of the price in international markets compared to 2020 up to EUR 170 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u296	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD to add Article 2 ( 4 ). The proposal of the law. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and the PAN, votes in favour of the PSD, CH, IL, BE and L and abstention from the CFP.]] It was as follows: 4 — For the purpose of applying the previous paragraph, the value of the refund already carried out by the measure « AUTOvoucher » in the year 2021 shall be reduced to the previous number.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u297	The vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD shall be followed by an addendum to Article 2 ( 5 ). The proposal of the law. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and L, votes in favour of the PSD, the CH, the IL and the BE and abstentions of the CFP and the NAP.]] It was as follows: 5 — For the purposes of paragraphs 1 and 2, the setting of the values of the unit rates of the PSI shall comply with the minimum levels of taxation applicable to fuels in accordance with Table A of Annex I to Council Directive 2003 / 96 / EC of 27 October 2003.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u298	We then have the proposal submitted by the PSD to add Article 2 ( 6 ). The proposal of the law. Let's vote for her. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and L, votes in favour of the PSD, the CH, the IL and the BE and abstentions of the CFP and the NAP.]] It was as follows: 6 — The calculation of the minimum levels of taxation referred to in the previous paragraph shall consider, in addition to the values of the unit rates of ISP, the values relating to the addition of CO2 emissions, as provided for in Article 92. o -A of the IEC Code, as well as the contribution of road service, created by Law No 55 / 2007 of 31 August 2007.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u299	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u300	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u301	Mr President, I would like to announce that with regard to the last votes of the PSD proposals, we will present a written statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u302	That doesn't exist!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u303	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall then proceed to the vote on Article 3. The proposal of the law. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, IL, BE, PAN and L and with abstentions from CH and the CFP.]] It is now necessary to vote on the proposal submitted by the Arrival amending Article 4 ( 1 ( a ). The proposal of the law. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and the PAN, votes in favour of the CH and the PCP and abstentions from the PSD, IL, BE and L.]] It was as follows: (a) fertilizers, fertilizers, plant protection products and soil corrections, as well as seeds and plants; and
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u304	We turn to the vote on Article 4 ( 1 ( a ). The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the IL, the PCP, the BE and the L, and abstentions of the CH and the NAP.]] The vote on Article 4 ( 1 ( b ) shall follow. The proposal of the law. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CH, IL, PCP, BE and L and the abstention from the NAP.]] We turn to the vote on the proposal submitted by the Czech Republic to add Article 4 ( c ) to Article 4 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected, votes against the CH and BE and abstentions against the PS, the IL, the CFP, the NAP and the L.]] It was as follows: (c) veterinary medicinal products and medicinal products.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u305	We shall vote on Article 4 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PS, IL, PCP, BE and L and with abstentions from CH and PAN.]] The vote on Article 4 ( 2 ) shall follow. The proposal of the law. [[The vote was taken by means of a vote in favour of PS, PS, CH, IL, PCP, BE and L and the abstention from the NAP.]] We now vote on the proposal submitted by the Czech Republic to add Article 4 ( 3 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PSD and the CFP were rejected, votes against the CH, the BE and the NAP and abstentions against the IL and the L.]] It was as follows: 3 — VAT-free transmissions relating to pet feed products are exempt.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u306	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the Arrival to add an article 4. o -A. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the IL and the PAN were rejected, votes against the CH and the BE and abstentions against the PSD, the PCP and the L.]] It was as follows: Article 4 o -Agricultural Electricity During the period of validity of this diploma, the support value to be granted under Article 4. that of Law No 37 / 2021 of 15 June, is also 20 % for the situations provided for in point ( b ).
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u307	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP to add a new Article 5. o the proposed law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PSD and the CFP were rejected, votes against the CH, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the IL.]] It was as follows: Article 5. o Taxation of pet feeding goods 1 — Transmissions of any pet feed products, including those held or held by animal protection associations, shall be exempt from VAT. 2 — The transactions referred to in the previous paragraph confer the right to deduction of the tax which has affected goods or services acquired, imported or used by the taxable person for their performance.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u308	We shall proceed to the vote on Article 5. The proposal of the law. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CH, BE, PAN and L and with abstentions from IL and the CFP.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the Bill No 1 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Consecrates a package of measures, of an extraordinary and temporary nature, to address the effects of rising fuel prices, with the amendments adopted in the meantime. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, IL, BE and L and with abstentions from CH, PCP and PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u309	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u310	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u311	Mr President, with regard to this proposal for a law, I would like to request the waiver of final drafting and the deadline for filing claims for inaccuracies, and also to point out that, in Article 1. the, point ( b ), where read « Electrical Sector Regulatory Entity ( ERSE ) », shall read « Energy Sector Regulatory Entity ( ERSE ) ». It's a lapse.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u312	There are no objections, the oral request for a waiver of final wording and the time limit for filing claims for inaccuracies in relation to the proposed law is considered. Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u313	Mr President, I would like to ask you to allow me, at the very moment, to make an oral vote on what we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u314	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Oral explanations of vote will take place at the end of the vote. Mr. André Ventura, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u315	Mr President, I have requested the floor for exactly the same purpose, i.e. also to announce an oral vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u316	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u317	Mr President, it is to indicate that with regard to Article 4 ( 1 ( b ). , we will present a written declaration of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u318	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr. Hugo Carneiro, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u319	Mr President, it is also to announce an oral vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u320	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Let us then proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 13 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Strategic plan for national food sovereignty. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH, IL and PAN were rejected, votes against the CFP and BE and L abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u321	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u322	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u323	Mr President, I just wanted to say that the Free will make a written statement of vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u324	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u325	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u326	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 14 / XV / 1. a ( CFP ) — Approves urgent measures for the production of cereals. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE, NAP and L and the abstention from the CH.]] In the meantime, I ask Vice-President Adam Silva to replace me in 10 minutes, because at 14 hours I will receive the President of the Senate of Brazil. We will then proceed with the general vote of Bill No. 15 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Measures to improve the functioning of the agri-food chain. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE and L and abstentions against the CH and the NAP.]] The general vote of Bill No. 16 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Reduce the price of fuels through the level of incorporation of biofuels. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP and the NAP and abstentions against the CH, BE and L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u327	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u328	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u329	Mr President, we shall present a statement of vote on the vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u330	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us continue with the general vote of Bill No 17 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Reduces electricity and gas VAT to the reduced rate of 6 % ( amendment to the value added tax code approved by Decree-Law No 394 - B / 84 of 26 December ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the CCP, the BE and the L and the NAP abstention.]] The gentlemen. Mr Rui Tavares and Mr Inês de Sousa Real, however, indicated to the Bureau that they would present written explanations of vote on this vote. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 18 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Set a reference price to combat speculation and reduce fuel and GPL prices. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L.]] We shall proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 19 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Extends access to regulated electricity tariff and eliminates its transitional character. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE, NAP and L and the abstention from the CH.]] We proceed with the general vote of Bill No. 20 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — eliminates the so-called "additional to ISP " and dual taxation of fuels ( VAT on ISP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of CH, IL, PCP, BE and L and abstentions from the PSD and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u331	Mr President, I once again call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u332	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u333	Mr President, I am sorry that I am interrupting, but that is to say that we will present a statement of vote in writing on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u334	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u335	Mr President, it is to announce that we will also present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u336	It is also registered, Mrs. We then proceed to the general vote of Bill No 38 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Set an extraordinary discount on the price per litre of fuel. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PAN were rejected, votes against the CH, IL and BE and abstentions against the PSD, the PCP and the L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u337	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u338	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u339	Mr President, it is to ask that we can make an oral statement at the moment on the vote on this diploma as well.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u340	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. André Ventura, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u341	Mr President, following the request made by Mr Bruno Dias, we also want to make an oral vote on the vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u342	I have more influence than I think!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u343	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the general vote of Bill No 49 / XV / 1 is followed. a ( IL) — Reduction of electricity and gas VAT to the reduced rate of 6 % ( amendment to the value added tax code approved by Decree-Law No 394 - B / 84 of 26 December ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the CCP, the BE and the L and the NAP abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u344	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u345	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u346	Mr President, I would like to say that I will make a written statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u347	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 50 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates a cost support measure with gasoline in the activity of small artisanal and coastal fishing ( green petrol ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the IL and the PAN were rejected, votes against the CH, the PCP, the BE and the L and the abstention from the PSD.]] We will then vote in general on Law No 51 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Reduce taxes on fuels and eliminate double taxation. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of CH, IL, PCP, BE and L and abstentions from the PSD and the NAP.]] The gentlemen. Mr Rui Tavares and Mr Inês de Sousa Real, however, indicated to the Bureau that they would present written explanations of vote on this vote. We continue with the vote on draft resolution No 9 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Extraordinary scheme of support for coloured diesel and marked in order to restore the price in January 2021. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, IL and PAN and votes against CH, PCP, BE and L were rejected.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 31 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Recommends that the Government promote an information campaign to enable end-users to monitor and understand the formation and evolution of fuel prices. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, votes against the CH, IL, BE and PAN and abstentions from the CFP and L.]] [[At this moment, he took the presidency of Vice-President Adam Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u348	I welcome the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We shall then proceed with the general vote on the Proposal for a Law No 2 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Alter to the Budget Framework Act. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS and L and with abstentions from PS, CH, IL, PCP, BE and PAN.]] We shall proceed to the speciality vote, as set out in Supplement II, on the Proposal for a Law No 2 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Alter to the Budget Framework Act. We shall vote for Article 1. the proposal for a law. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the CH, the PAN and the L and the abstentions of the PSD, the IL, the CFP and the BE.]] We continue with the vote on the proposal submitted by the Socialist Party to add Article 8 ( 3 ). The Budget Framework Act. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PAN and the L, votes against the CFP and the BE and abstentions against the PSD, the CH and the IL.]] It is as follows: 3 — Macroeconomic and budgetary forecasts for budgetary programming are subject to a regular evaluation published by the Council of Public Finance, including an ex-post evaluation which is taken into account in future macroeconomic and budgetary forecasts.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u349	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal by the Socialist Party for an addendum to Article 8 ( 4 ). The Budget Framework Act. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS and the L, votes against the PCP and BE and abstentions against the PSD, the CH, the IL and the NAP.]] It is as follows: 4 — If the assessment referred to in the previous paragraph detects a significant discrepancy affecting macroeconomic forecasts over a period of at least four consecutive years, the Government shall take the necessary measures and make them public.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u350	We turn to the vote on the proposal by the Socialist Party to add Article 32 ( 2 ). The Budget Framework Act. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PAN and the L, votes against the CFP and the BE and abstentions against the PSD, the CH and the IL.]] It is as follows: 2 — The Stability Programme presented in the framework of the procedures for the European Semester, together with the Large Options Act, constitutes the medium-term budgetary framework, which includes the current year and the following four years, to be presented in the first phase of the budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u351	The vote was followed by the vote on the proposal by the Socialist Party to add Article 32 ( 3 ). The Budget Framework Act. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against the PCP and BE and abstentions against the PSD, CH, IL, PAN and L.]] It is as follows: 3 — The medium-term budgetary framework referred to in the previous paragraph includes comprehensive and transparent multiannual budgetary objectives in terms of overall balance, expenditure and public debt for the public administration sector, with greater specification for the central government and social security subsectors.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u352	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the PS to add Article 32 ( 4 ). The Budget Framework Act. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against the PCP and BE and abstentions against the PSD, CH, IL, PAN and L.]] It is as follows: 4 — The multiannual budgetary objectives referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article shall be compatible with the budgetary rules laid down in Chapter III of this Law.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u353	We then voted on the proposal by the PS to add a new paragraph 2 to Article 36. The Budget Framework Act. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against the CFP, the BE and the NAP and abstentions against the PSD, the CH, the IL and the L.]] It is as follows: 2 — The State budget respects the objectives set out in the medium-term budget framework, constituting the estimates in terms of revenue and expenditure based on the preparation of the annual budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u354	The following is the vote on the proposal by the PS for an addendum to Article 36 ( 3 ). The Budget Framework Act. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against the CFP, the BE and the NAP and abstentions against the PSD, the CH, the IL and the L.]] It is as follows: 3 — The limits of expenditure defined in the multiannual public expenditure framework referred to in Article 35. the, on an organic basis mission, form the basis of the State budget for the following economic year, which are broken down into budgetary programmes for the subsectors of central administration and social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u355	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the PS to add Article 36 ( 4 ). The Budget Framework Act. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against the CFP, the BE and the NAP and abstentions against the PSD, the CH, the IL and the L.]] It is as follows: 4 — Any deviations between the estimates of overall balance, revenue and expenditure of the State budget and the objectives set out in the medium-term budget framework shall be based on the State budget report.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u356	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal by the PS amending paragraph 2 ( renumbered as Article 36 ( 5 ). The Budget Framework Act. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against the CFP and the NAP and abstentions against the PSD, CH, IL, BE and L.]] It is as follows: 5 — The Government shall also send to the European Commission for the purpose of issuing specific national recommendations the proposed State budget law within the time limit referred to in paragraph 1, except in the situations set out in the following chapter.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u357	We then vote on Article 39 ( 4 ). the Budget Framework Act, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[The vote was taken by votes to PS, PSD, PAN and L and abstentions to CH, IL, PCP and BE.]] We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD for an addendum to Article 40 ( d ). The Budget Framework Act. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CFP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH, the IL, the NAP and the L and the abstention from BE.]] It was as follows: (d) Public administrations' accounts in public accounts;
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u358	We are now voting on the proposal submitted by the PSD to add a point ( e) to Article 40. The Budget Framework Act. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CFP were rejected, votes against the PSD, IL and the NAP and abstentions against the CH, BE and L.]] It was as follows: (e) the accounts of public administrations in national accounts;
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u359	We turn to the vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD to add a point ( f) to Article 40. The Budget Framework Act. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CFP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH, the IL and the NAP and abstentions against BE and L.]] It was as follows: ( f ) the transfer of public accounts balances to national accounts;
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u360	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD for an addendum to Article 40 ( g ). The Budget Framework Act. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the BE were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH, the IL and the NAP and the L abstention.]] It was as follows: ( g ) Table of main budgetary policy measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u361	We then vote on Article 58 ( 4 ). the Budget Framework Act, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[The vote was taken by votes to PS, PSD, PAN and L and abstentions to CH, IL, PCP and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u362	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u363	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u364	Mr President, the PSD would like to present an oral amendment to the wording it proposed with regard to the following vote. I know that it is a little sui generis, but we are voting in general and in specialty at the same time as a fundamental law on the State budget and the financial rules of the State. Therefore, if I may, I would like to present this amendment.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u365	Mr President, this is a situation that I have to take into consideration by the House. I wonder if any Member of Parliament or Member of Parliament opposes this request. [[Pause.]] There is no opposition, Mr Carneiro has the floor. It has one minute. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u366	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members with regard to Article 58 ( 7 ). the Budget Framework Act, we have tabled a proposal for an amendment. However, we wanted to make a new amendment to the wording of the text. Therefore, it would be: 'In accordance with and for the purposes of this Article, the Government shall adopt a decree of law with the rules strictly necessary for the implementation of the transitional budget. Do not keep on seeking. ” In short, the amendment proposed by the PSD is to add the words « strictly necessary ».
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u367	I think it was perceptible to the whole House. We shall therefore vote on the proposal now put forward in a loud voice by PSD Member Hugo Carneiro amending Article 58 ( 7 ). The Budget Framework Act. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CH, the IL, the PAN and the L and with abstentions of the CFP and the BE.]] It is as follows: 7 — In accordance with and for the purposes of this Article, the Government shall adopt a decree of law with the rules strictly necessary for the implementation of the transitional budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u368	Article 58 ( 7 ) is therefore prejudiced. the Budget Framework Act, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u369	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u370	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u371	Mr President, I would like to ask the Bureau a question on a vote that has been taken now. It seems to us that the PSD proposal for an addendum to Article 40 ( e ). it was rejected. We wanted to confirm whether this was said by Mr President, because it seemed to us that he would have been approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u372	It has been rejected, yes, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u373	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u374	Let's go on, then. We voted for Article 58 ( 8 ). the Budget Framework Act, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS and L and with abstentions from PS, CH, IL, PCP, BE and PAN.]] The vote on the proposal submitted by the CH shall follow the amendment to Article 71 ( 4 ). The Budget Framework Act. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and the PSD, votes in favour of CH, IL, BE and PAN and abstentions from the CFP and L.]] It was as follows: 4 — The results of the audits referred to in the previous paragraph shall be sent to the Assembly of the Republic within one year, which shall be extended for 18 months, for duly justified reasons and shall be published at www.transparencia.gov.pt/.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u375	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal by the CH for an addendum to Article 74 ( 4 ). The Budget Framework Act. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and the PSD, votes in favour of CH, IL, BE and PAN and abstentions from the CFP and L.]] It was as follows: 4 — The elements provided under the above paragraph should also be published at www.transparencia.gov.pt/.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u376	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal by the CH amending Article 75 ( 3 ). The Budget Framework Act. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and the PSD, votes in favour of CH, IL, BE and PAN and abstentions from the CFP and L.]] It was as follows: 3 — The Court of Auditors shall send to the Assembly of the Republic the final reports relating to the exercise of its budgetary control powers, which shall also be published at www.transparencia.gov.pt/.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u377	We shall vote for the body of Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS, the CH and the L and abstentions of the PSD, the IL, the CFP, the BE and the NAP.]] We now vote on Article 3. The proposal of the law. [[The vote was taken with votes in favour of the PS, the PAN and the L and with abstentions from the PSD, the CH, the IL, the PCP and the BE.]] The overall final vote of the Bill No 2 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Alter to the Budget Framework Act. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS and the L, votes against the CFP and the BE and abstentions against the CH, IL and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u378	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u379	Mrs. Member, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u380	Mr President, it is in order to request the waiver of final drafting and the deadline for submitting complaints against inaccuracies concerning this bill that we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u381	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote on this oral request. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u382	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u383	Mr. Hugo Carneiro, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u384	Mr President, it is only to announce that we will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u385	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u386	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u387	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u388	Mr. President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u389	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. In relation to Bill No. 44 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Amends the Budget Framework Act to the provisions of the Climate Bases Act, which has entered the Bureau, however, a request submitted by the Diploma Author, who requests his discharge to the Committee on Budgets and Finance, without a vote, within 60 days. Let's vote on the request. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 24 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Developing the country, valuing work and workers, promoting national production, breaking with external dependence. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH, IL and PAN were rejected, votes against the CFP and BE and L abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u390	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u391	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u392	Mr President, it is to announce that we will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u393	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 25 / XV / 1. a (BE) — Budget policy for the growth of expenditure and public investment. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 26 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government submit a genuine Stability Programme, including a Portugal return strategy to convergence with European countries. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the BE were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH, the IL and the NAP and the L abstention.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 27 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — By rejecting the Stability Programme 2022 - 2026. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the NAP and the L, votes against the CH and abstentions from the PSD, the IL and the BE.]] We then voted on the Resolution Project No 28 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Recommends that the Government complement the Stability Programme with an investment programme in national defence. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L were rejected, votes against the CH and abstentions to the PSD, the IL and the NAP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 29 / XV / 1. the, whose heading I'm going to read and which is long...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u394	Mr President, to save you work, I want to say that there has been a formatting error and that the title of this draft resolution is not as long as what is in the vote script. The title is only the following: « A dynamic economy for a society of dignity ». thus, I think I saved you a good minute, because by mistake the first paragraph of the diploma text was included in the title.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u395	Mr President, the Bureau fully endorses the proposal of Mr Exa We shall therefore vote on draft resolution No 29 / XV / 1. a (L) — A dynamic economy for a society of dignity. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, the CH and the IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions against the PS and the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u396	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u397	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u398	Mr President, I take advantage of it to pay back sympathy and to say that, in the midst of this exchange of words, I have forgotten to announce that the Book will present a written declaration of vote on draft resolution No 28 / XV / 1. a
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u399	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The vote on draft resolution No 30 / XV / 1. a (IL) — By a growth-focused development model. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L and with votes against the PSD, the CH and the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u400	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u401	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u402	Mr President, I would like to confirm how the Bureau noted the vote on the Liberal Initiative in draft resolution No 24 / XV / 1. a ( CFP ), because I believe that the Bureau has announced a sense of vote contrary to what we have expressed, that is to say, our vote is against and the Bureau has said that it has abstained.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u403	Mr President, it does not change the outcome of the vote, but that correction is made.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u404	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u405	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u406	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u407	Mr President, to announce that I will present a written statement of vote on draft resolution No 30 / XV / 1. a
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u408	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Rui Tavares is also asking for the floor. To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u409	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u410	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will now vote for the Resolution Project No. 7 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Forecast in the National Reform Programme - 2022 of the adaptation of the National Water Plan to climate change, as a measure to combat drought. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the CFP, BE, PAN and L and with abstentions from PS, PSD, CH and IL.]] Then we vote on draft resolution No 38 / XV / 1. a (NAP) — Recommends that the Government, under the National Reform Programme - 2022, implement a national animal reception network. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of IL, BE, PAN and L and abstentions from PSD, CH and PCP.]] We now vote on Resolution Project No 39 / XV / 1. a (NAP) — Recommends that the Government, in the National Reform Programme - 2022, set up a free river action plan, which is depoluded and strengthen monitoring, control and evaluation of river pollution. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PAN and L and abstentions from PSD, CH, IL and PCP.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 40 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Recommends that the Government implement a national growth programme. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L, votes against the CH and the IL and the abstention from the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u411	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u412	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u413	Mr President, I wanted to correct the vote on draft resolution No 27 / XV / 1. a ( CH). We voted against, but we want to abstain.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u414	Be registered. It does not alter the outcome of the vote. Mr Rui Tavares is asking for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u415	Mr President, it is to be announced that I will present a written statement of vote on draft resolution No 40 / XV / 1. a ( IL).
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u416	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 41 / XV / 1. a (L) — Fundamental gains as a guiding principle for reforms. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, the CH and the IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the PS abstention.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we must also vote for an opinion from the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, which will be read by Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u417	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Leiria, Central Criminal Court of Leiria — Judge 2, Case No 272 / 17.1JACBR, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr José Carlos Alexandrino ( PS ) to testify in the framework of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u418	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall now turn to the oral explanations of vote, which were previously announced, and the rule is as follows: when there is an oral statement of vote on only one initiative, the honourable Members. Members have 2 minutes; when it comes to more than one initiative, the maximum time is 4 minutes. I then give the floor to Mr Bruno Dias, who will make a statement of vote on Bill Nos 1 / XV / 1. a and 2 / XV / 1. a
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u419	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: over the years, the CFP has defended and proposed measures to reduce taxes on fuels and today we have done so again. The CFP was against tax increases that have been decreed by the PS and PSD/CDS governments — in fact, we still remember the carbon rate, brought by then Minister Jorge Moreira da Silva and later enthusiastically defended by their successors in PS governments. What our country's concrete experience has already shown, and continues to demonstrate fully, is that the reduction in the tax burden on fuels is a necessary but not sufficient measure to deal with this escalation and lower prices, because the speculative practices of the economic groups, from oil to various other sectors, from energy to large distribution, are crushing Portuguese with exorbitant prices and amassing profits of billions of euros. Still this week, the interview of the CEO of Petrogal clarified who still had doubts. The CEO (executive chief officer) said: "Yes, we're earning money and the war brought the price up. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the confirmation and recognition of what everyone already knows, that is, it is an advantage that the economic power is making of people's difficulties and suffering. However, measures that are limited only to sharing a discount on the final price, regardless of the final price that oil imposes on the liberalised market, are measures that actually mean a subsidy to the profit of oil. There is not even a guarantee that this discount, financed by the State, corresponds entirely to the decrease that is intended at the final price in the petrol pumps; on the contrary, it has already happened and will happen again the same thing, that is, the public resources are appropriated by the economic groups with support measures that do not reach the people and the productive sectors with the necessary scope and results. That is why we abstained from the proposals of the Government and of the Arrival. Objectively, only the CFP proposals in this debate responded in concrete terms to the central issue of combating speculation. By means of the PS, PSD, Arrival and Liberal Initiative in this plenary session, the country is faced with a missed opportunity, but the current and need for these concrete responses will continue to be imposed and confirmed. In the budgetary debate, the CFP will not lack its intervention and proposal on this matter, because the defence of living conditions, the fight against speculation, exploitation and impoverishment require concrete and effective measures, require political coherence and courage to face the interests of some who enrich at the expense of almost all. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to make a reference to the vote, which also took place, of the Proposal for a Law No 2 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), to stress that it was lacking that pay payments to public administration workers were a pretext to justify the whole series of amendments to the Budget Framework Act that the PS wanted to approve in this session. Workers deserve respect, require better wages, working conditions and decent careers, and cannot and cannot be the currency of exchange for the country's subordination operations. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u420	The following is Mr Ventura, who earlier announced that he would make an oral vote on two initiatives. I would therefore like the honourable Member to tell us, in order to organize the work at the Bureau, whether they will be brought together or whether they will be done separately.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u421	Mr President, for reasons of efficiency, I will join them both in one.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u422	Therefore, he has four minutes to make his explanations of vote in a single way. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u423	Mr President, this bill has been presented by the House on the basis of two realities: one of them is experience and the other is economic and fiscal policy. The first is about what is happening throughout Europe. We can point out the problems we want and centralize them wherever we want, but the truth is this: Portugal today has an unsustainable tax rate on fuel and energy. Of the total we paid in fuel, 61 % — 61 %! — they are taxed.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u424	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u425	And that's the central problem. Therefore, we do not understand the position of the CFP when it says that this is a problem, but that there are others. Of course there are others, but this is also a problem! Now, we will either lower the price or give a direct discount to the population in the fuel that is supplied in nothing contains Portuguese sovereignty, in nothing disputes with support for companies, in nothing contends with the protection of workers. In fact, it is a little awkward to see the rows to supply cars in Spain, which is precisely where a direct discount is made on fuel consumption. And the proposal we put forward here was in this regard: a worthy proposal, a proposal of the best that has been made in Europe and which has still been rejected. Part of the defence of sovereignty is also to help companies strengthen themselves, help reduce the tax burden and create a fiscal policy that allows not only consumption and savings, but also sustainable growth of companies. And our proposal was to help businesses and consumers. That's what we've been trying to do here.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u426	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u427	In fact, in this vote statement, I would like to leave a note on the energy-consuming industries, such as glass and others — even though I am speaking only for some 20 Members, I will leave the note in it — to say that these companies are suffering as they have never suffered in life. Industries such as cement or glass, which employ thousands of workers throughout the country, are currently going through the greatest difficulties of their time. And this project of the Arrival helped a direct discount, without vouchers, without indirect discounts, without indirect assignments—was directly attributed to the consumer.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u428	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u429	We therefore do not understand how this proposal could have been rejected. It will remain in the history of this House and also in the history of this government the rejection of a direct discount proposal—at a time when we pay the highest fuels in our history—...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u430	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u431	...by a majority, which incorporates not only the Socialist Party as others who apparently are their allies. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u432	For a statement of vote, Mr Carneiro has the floor, two minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u433	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Under the Proposal for a Law No 1 / XV / 1. a, the PSD submitted a proposal to return EUR 170 million of VAT charged to the Government in 2021 on fuels. The PS rejected this proposal, but it also rejected the proposals aimed at lowering VAT from electricity. at a time as critical as what we go through, when inflation is rising, when the charges are so heavy for the Portuguese, the PS is not next to the Portuguese. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u434	Alternatively, it opts to use experimentalism: it experiences one law today, tomorrow it experiences another law. It is the « AUTOVoucher », it is the « VATucher »... Whatever it is. But those who suffer and don't understand any of these rules are Portuguese—probably, most Portuguese don't even understand how the « AUTOvoucher » works. Today we had the unique opportunity to give a signal, and what we found is that the day the masks generally fell, the government's mask also fell. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u435	It is appropriate to say: with the PS, the people impoverish and no one deserves. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-22.u436	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded today's work. I must only announce that the next plenary meeting will be, as you know, the Solemn Commemorative Session of 25 April, on Monday, beginning at 10 a.m. I wish all the Members and all the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, a great weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 14 hours and 39 minutes.]]
