ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late for everyone. Let's start our plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 3 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officials of the authority which open the doors of the galleries intended for the public. As soon as there is silence in the Chamber, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha will read the file. [[Pause.]] There is a certain nervousness of "end of classes" in the Chamber, but this is not the case for so much! Open... Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late for everyone. I will announce that they have entered the Bureau, and were admitted by Mr President, Bills Nos 231 and 232 / XV / 1. a ( PS ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 233 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 5. the Commission, and 236 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission and draft resolution No 165 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u3	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. Let us then begin the agenda for today's sitting, with the joint discussion, in general, of the Bill No 19 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Alter the legal regime of entry, stay, exit and removal of foreigners from national territory and draft Law No 210 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Prevents the acquisition of Portuguese nationality through residence authorization for investment activity, 211 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Strengthening of the procedures for granting residence permits for investment activity, 212 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Statue of statelessness and 213 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Review the rules of Law No 23 / 2007 of 4 July on the authorisation of residence for the pursuit of professional activity and on criminal conduct of aid to illegal immigration, seizure and use of illegal labour, aggravating their penalties. Let me remind all the parliamentary groups that today we will have two moments of voting and, therefore, two moments of quorum verification, the first of which will be at the end of this first item on the agenda. To submit Law No 19 / XV / 1. the Government, I give the floor to Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The diploma presented this afternoon is intended to meet four fundamental objectives. They are: to honour the commitment of the Portuguese State, held one year ago in July 2021, with the countries of CPLP (the Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries ), to ensure that there is a labour mobility agreement to expedite the procedures ; to allow the Portuguese State to continue to be able to promote the organisation of regular, safe and orderly flows; to contribute to substantially reduce irregular immigration; and finally to implement in the national legal order all regulations relating to the establishment, operation and use of the Schengen Information System (SIS), which in 2018 dictated its reconfiguration, calling it « SIS II ». If these objectives are noble, they demand that the Portuguese State may attract regular and integrated immigration and, above all, alter the way in which the Public Administration has over time treated the people who arrive here to work, live or study. For this reason, what is envisaged, with this bill, is first of all the agility of the granting of temporary residence visas for each citizen covered by the mobility agreement referred to earlier and for students already admitted to higher education institutions, thus disbursing, as a rule, the prior opinion of the SEF ( Service of Foreigners and Borders ), which at this time constitutes an obstacle to this regularisation but allowing the assurance, which the Consulate must give, that SIS II is consulted directly and the visa may be refused in each case of negative indication in this Schengen Information System. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I am referring to the creation of a visa for the demand for work, which seems to me to be an absolutely important step in the Portuguese state, because it allows for entry into Portugal to foreigners who want to seek work here for the 120-day period, extended for more than 60 days, which means that, having failed to find a job, this period of time can still be extended. Thirdly, the possibility of granting temporary residence visas and residence visas is expected to be extended to professionals working remotely. Today, the reality of work and its organization is totally different and it is therefore to allow those who are called "digital nomads" to also have a residence visa, whether or not they are entrepreneurs, to benefit from this facility. Fourthly, I refer to the possibility of temporary residence or residence visas for the purpose of monitoring the family, not family reunification, so that it may be possible to be accompanied by their family. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, these are the amendments essentially introduced in this law of foreigners, with three essential foundations: firstly, to continue to welcome and to integrate well those who arrive here; secondly, to expedite procedures for visas of residence or work; and thirdly, to ensure that our economy with more labour in Portugal, which is also often qualified. I am now, of course, at your disposal to answer the questions that you and the honourable Members have asked. Ladies and gentlemen want to put in. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u5	The Minister has two requests for clarification. To formulate the first, Mr Ventura from the Parliamentary Group of the United States of America has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u6	Mr President, Madam Minister, the debate that brings us here today will be put in a hurry because the government wanted it to be. All the opposition, without exception, asked not to do so, but the Minister, for some design that we could not understand, insisted on the rush to approve this diploma. By now, Mrs. Minister, perhaps it was important that you could clarify what the country will win without the previous visa of the SEF. It was important to explain this. What you're going to win is that everyone's going to come in anyway, without any police control at the entrance. It is an exception within the European Union, which calls into question our borders and those of the whole European Union. It is the :" Come anyway! Come, we have subsidies to give you, while we do not have to give those who really need subsidies here! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Congrats from the CH.]] This bill, Mr President, ends with the previous visa of the SEF, which is not normal for those who want to extinguish the SEF. This bill ends with visas for cases of digital nomads, gives a greater extent to its allocation and ends with the overall quota for employment and opportunities, which has always been in force in national legislation. Basically, what we are saying, Minister, is this: "It doesn't matter whether there is a job or not. Come on! Come anyway! Come collect whatever wages it is! Come, whether there is a job or not, the Portuguese economy is here to support you! Do not keep on seeking. ” What a sad country this country, which can't sustain its own, but wants to support those who come from outside with subsidies. It is not fair, it is not right and it violates what we have from the deepest, which is to make Portugal and the Portuguese the first objective of our attention. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u7	For a request for clarification, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the proposal which the Government is bringing to us today, the NAP sees some amendments as positive, of which I stress, in particular, the creation of a job search visa and the simplification of procedures, in addition to not making temporary residence visas for nationals of a State in which the CPLP agreement is in force. unlike some, we understand that Portugal has a serious problem of lack of labour, has a serious problem of demographic ageing,... [[CH Member's protests Filipe Melo.]] ... coupled with the humanitarian crisis that afflicts Europe and the world. There are, therefore, values that are indeed cross-cutting and that we are accompanying on this initiative. However, there are some aspects that give us some doubts, so we would like it to be open to some changes. We must not fail to mention that the forecast of strengthening measures, in the context of border control and the imposition of more restrictive standards, corroborates what has been seen as the adoption of a policy of border militarization in Europe — which has been called 'Europe-fortress' — at which more than 40 000 people have already died, a position in which the NAP does not change. The government has enacted legislation on this subject, but almost ignores the extinction of the SEF. We would like to know, Madam Minister, that we are standing in this situation and that amendments will still be made so that we can effectively understand how the asylum regime and the entry and stay of people in national territory will be done.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u9	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u10	I'm really finishing up. On the other hand, I wonder how this bureaucracy will be prevented from extending to other regularization processes, even in its own distance.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u11	In reply, I have the floor of the Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Andre Ventura, perhaps the first big difference between us is even a fundamental divergence about what should be the reception of foreigners, as we look at immigration policies, as we look at the greater value these people bring to our country. So there will not be much discussion with you, because for us government there is no « us and the others», there is even the need for a policy of reception and integration that guarantees equal treatment of rights and duties and above all that respects the dignity of the human person. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I want you to know that the vulnerable in Portugal have a response from the State, a strong social state that responds to them with social protection. And those who arrive here, fleeing climate change, wars and dictatorships, deserve a new opportunity in their lives and deserve a country that welcomes them, where they can realize their dreams and life projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u13	What about the Portuguese? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u14	That's what we're doing with this project. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the difference between us is abismal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u15	Good!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u16	The project that you are presenting to the Assembly of the Republic says 'the borders are closed' and the project that we, the government, are presenting says...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u17	Open the borders! Come on, everybody!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u18	... 'We simplify and speed up the entry of foreigners into Portugal'. And I'm telling you what the country wins, sir. The country wins because it enriches diversity. The country wins because it enriches culture. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Repeals of CH Deputies.]] The country wins because it enriches the demographics. The country wins because it wins in the economy and gains in ensuring a more fair, inclusive and more solidarityable society, principles, indeed, that you do not know when you make the speech of the « us and the others».
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u19	Whether it's slave labor!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u20	Mrs. Minister, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u21	I shall finish, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, telling Mrs Inês de Sousa Real that the diploma to arise, in the restructuring of the SEF, on the new Portuguese Agency for Migration and Asylum will be aimed at agitating and disbursing even more and it will be at this site that other amendments will be introduced. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u22	To present Lein.o 210 Projects, 211 and 212 / XV / 1. Mr Rui Tavares, from the Free, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u23	Watch out for time!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Foreigners and compatriots, we are all human, all born, we have the same inalienable dignity. That is what the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic believes, that is what the Portuguese Republic believes...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u25	It's enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u26	...and that is why we sign and are part of international law, which obliges us to respect these same principles. when we have a law of foreigners, we must do it by three fundamental principles: what is right for people, what is good for national cohesion, what respects international law. And, let us be clear, by doing so, we are not doing anyone a favor, we are fulfilling a right, just as we want it to be respected in the case of our Portuguese emigrants abroad.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u27	Respect our emigrants!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u28	No more or less: the equality we give is the same as we demand for ours. That is why, with regard to this bill and the initiatives presented by the Free House, we want to clearly distinguish what nationality is and take seriously something that is often said in this House, i.e. that nationality is not for sale.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u29	You're not for sale? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u30	Therefore, the Free seeks to ensure that visasgolds do not give access to nationality. So, anyone who thinks that nationality should not be on sale has a very simple remedy: voting in favour of the proposal of the Free...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u31	Free, no! Do PS! You are the rapporteur!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u32	... and to ensure that, in relation to investment visas, so-called gold visas, there are increased levels of demand in the investigation that is made in relation to these visas. The Free voted in favour of the abolition of visasgolds, but since they exist, then, we seek to ensure that, through them, the corrupt, oligarchs do not come here...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u33	And the terrorists? Oh, my God! Those can come!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u34	...and the war criminals of other places. [[CH protests.]] Then we also seek to ensure that, in relation to those outside the bilateral instruments, those who have no nationality, those who are stateless — and have already arrived stateless to Portugal who have contributed much to our national cohesion — there is a status of stateless persons who seek to ensure that people, who do not have citizenship rights in the countries from which they come, rights and duties, with equal dignity for all. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u35	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u36	It is simple: there are those who do not believe in this; those who do not believe in this are not humanists. [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u37	To submit Bill No 213 / XV / 1. Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u38	Mr. President, the bill of arrival is clear. Here are two visions of Portugal and Europe. One, that of the Government, expressed by Minister Ana Catarina Mendes, says: « Come anyway. We are very supportive. We don't have for our own, but we have for you. We don't have for the Portuguese, but we have for the others. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u39	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u40	There is another vision, even a little deeper, of the Free, the PCP and the Left Block, which says: "Come in any way and be legal or illegal, we give you a nice name - stateless, refugees, asylum seekers, whatever you want. Come in anyway! Do not keep on seeking. ” There are only some who have never given priority in the government's speech: the Portuguese who have worked all their lives, who pay taxes and are here to support this country! [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS protests.]] It's true! We could even say this: "We are a country with few dependents, more can come. » Only not! Open... [[Protests by PS Member Berta Nunes.]] We already have so many, and so many ethnic groups, that we can't say more to come, because we're already paying too much!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u41	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u42	Sometimes the Portuguese wonder why we pay so many taxes. And the answer is so easy! ...We pay so many taxes, because we're supporting those who are here and they don't want to do anything,
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u43	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u44	... those who want to come and don't want to do anything and still those who want to come illegally and live at our expense! That's it, he's never going to accept it! [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Protests by PS Member Berta Nunes.]] So there's a world that separates us. Those who call themselves globalists want all the same and all the same. For us, Portugal and the Portuguese will always be first, because they allowed us to be here today. If this Assembly of the Republic exists it is because they pay taxes, because they support us and because they allow us to be here! [[Congrats from the CH.]] by saying that there are no « others», what we are saying is that they are all the same. No, no, Mr Rui Tavares, our emigration has nothing to do with immigration that is now reaching the gates of Portugal!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u45	Nothing, nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u46	I'm going to tell you why, and you should learn from our emigrants, because they're going out to work.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u47	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u48	They killed themselves working to allow this country to be what it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u49	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u50	They are not like « others», who come here to live on account of our subsidies and our wages. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS protests.]] That's the truth and it's the truth that it costs to listen to Portugal. This is the truth of our emigration: work emigration, force emigration, anger emigration! That is our emigration and that is what we will defend! [[Congrats from the CH.]] So we will always have the two poles: those who defend those who live on subsidies and those who, like us, defend those who want to protect those who work and our Portuguese people out there. That is our dignity, that is our strength and that is what we defend! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u51	Mr Member, I must say that as President of the Assembly of the Republic of Portugal, I believe that Portugal owes much, but even much, to the many thousands of immigrants who work here,... [[PSP, PCP, BE, L and PSD and IL applause.]] [[CH protests.]] ... that they live here and that they contribute here to our social security, to our social cohesion, to our collective life, to our citizenship and to our dignity as an open, inclusive and respectful country of others. [[PSP (standing), PCP, BE, PAN and L ( standing) and PSD (with standing Members) and IL (with standing Members).]] [[CH protests, having the deputies beaten with their hands on the sides of the benches.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u52	Shame! He can't be there! You have to get out of there and go to the bench!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u53	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u54	Mr. André Ventura, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u55	For a protest, Mr President, in accordance with Rule 77. the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u56	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u57	Now you've learned this article! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u58	No, I know many articles, Mrs. Member, more than the honourable Member will know all her life. [[You son of a bitch!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u59	Mr President, it is very simple: I honestly believe that Mr President, as President of the Assembly of the Republic, should refrain from commenting on parliamentary interventions. [[Ch's applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u60	Exactly! Of course! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u61	And, Mr President, when it is difficult to distinguish the functions of President of the Assembly of the Republic from the role of Member of the Socialist Party or support the proposals of the Socialist Government, I think we are on the wrong track in the exercise of functions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u62	Exactly! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u63	We've said it many times before. Mr. President, you can understand that in defending the PS, you defend what you believe in... [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u64	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, all speakers have the right not to be interrupted without their consent and to express themselves freely. Mr. André Ventura, please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u65	Mr President may understand that defending the PS is defending the Assembly of the Republic, but what he did today, after a speech by a Member on a proposal from the Government, shows that we do not have a President of the Assembly of the Free Republic, able to distinguish the role of referee from the role of Member of the Socialist Party. Today, we have had proof of what we knew for a long time: Mr President was chosen by a bench or by a Prime Minister—we do not know well—for one reason, which was to come here to play the Socialist Party. That is why the Arrival does not regret anything and today assumes that it has presented a censure for its behaviour, its role as President of the Assembly of the Republic,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u66	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u67	... which intends to bring to the vote as early as September, here in the Assembly of the Republic. This may never have happened, but we're not going to stop bringing here, because the majority are passing by and disappearing, but the Portuguese are out there, they know exactly what's going on in here!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u68	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u69	When we have a President of the Assembly who ceases to be an arbitrator and starts commenting and attacking party proposals,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u70	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u71	... we no longer have a President of the Assembly of the Republic, we have the head of the PS bench, which, instead of sitting there on the bench, is sitting at the Bureau of the Assembly. That's what's illegal, that's what's incomprehensible! [[Ch's applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Let me tell you four things: the first is that I do not represent the Socialist Party here, I represent here the common democratic ground of this House, as the Constitution determines it and the Rules of Procedure impose it. [[Congratulations from the PS and PSD Members.]] Secondly, my most basic function is to ensure the prestige of the Assembly of the Republic and, whenever the prestige of the Assembly of the Republic is at stake, you may be sure that I will intervene. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Assembly of the Portuguese Republic is the assembly which represents all Portuguese, residing in national territory or foreign territory, and which also receives and cares for, either in the exercise of the legislative function or in the exercise of the function of supervision, the well-being of all those who reside and work in Portugal, whether Portuguese or foreign. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The third thing I wanted to tell you is that I don't get impressed with kicks or the volume of sound.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u73	And we won't shut up! We'll never shut up!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u74	And the fourth thing I wanted to say is that I'm many, but even many, years... The CH Parliamentary Group has emerged from the Hemicycle. [[PS protests.]] ... committed to defending democracy and freedom and so I will continue until the end of my days. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u75	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u76	Mr. Eurico Brilliant Days, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u77	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u78	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u79	Mr President, just to stress that Mr Ventura's intervention mentioned several times not only Mr President but also the Socialist Party's bench, so he wanted to mention the following: in this parliamentary group, we had the initiative to propose you to preside over the Assembly of the Republic and we did not do so because it was elected by the Socialist Party's bench, or just because it was our conviction that, among us, it was the best thing to do these functions, to defend this institution of attacks also those who want to attack democracy and the democratic system. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u80	And if we had that conviction at the end of March 2022, past these months, our conviction was strengthened. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u81	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's continue our work. Mr. CH Diogo Pacheco de Amorim entered the Chamber and immediately left. [[Laughing.]] Mr Pedro Delgado Alves spoke on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister : in a democratic Chamber there are debates that, by the theme, are eloquent in how a state can stand, democracy is proud of its electors or, potentially, sometimes, democracy reflects on how it should view its future. Portugal is a centenary country and it is a centenary country that gathers substrates of several millennia of people who have passed by and who will continue to pass and that we want them to continue to pass and mix with us, making us more robust and more distinct. Now, point to this House and say "This House was built with the Portuguese salary! As if the Portuguese were always the same, over hundreds of years, and as if those who have been Portuguese for a few years or who only live among us had not contributed their sweat to what this House stands for and exemplifies, it is in fact not only lacking the truth of values as lacking to the truth of the facts. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In 2019, the contribution of foreign citizens living in Portugal to social security was EUR 820 million, a 36 % increase over the previous year. If I were still in the Chamber and had not fled in a cowardly manner to his responsibilities, I would ask Mr Ventura where would he look for the EUR 820 million — which is much lacking for all Portuguese and all those who reside in national territory — if he broke the national territory, if he were to treat those, often exploited among us, whose sweat would cease to count in order to help build the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I will not say that, unfortunately, I will not hear the answer, because I would rather not listen to it, because I would like to anticipate what it would be. But this helps us to frame the debate. The bill the government brings here serves a number of purposes. Some have to do with international obligations arising from our insertion into the European Union, which are easy to explain and justify, are improvements in the quality of people's reception and in the functioning of the European Union's external borders, showing well that far from being moving away from these countries through the agreement within the framework of the CPLP, we are being concerned about them and making them work. On the other hand, it also represents the desire to ensure that Portuguese residing or wishing to reside abroad in the CPLP countries will benefit from the same facilitated, accessible and unburocratized regime that is intended to devote to those who, together with us, want to develop their professional activity or study. in this reciprocity, there is obviously once again an element that, in fact, demonstrates the falsity of what was stated in this House. But it should also be pointed out, because it is important that this is reiterated, that it is stated again, that, in this aspect of the Mobility Agreement in the CPLP, we cannot, on the second, fourth and sixth occasions, realize that the Lusophony is a priority and then on the third and fifth years, when it comes to the populist agenda we want to pursue, throw out a structural piece that is difficult to find in congenerous states and in congenerative solutions. Therefore, it is to welcome the CPLP agreement and the way it is today, here, implemented. It ended with a reflection: much of what we heard earlier in this Chamber was precisely the same kind of offensive and degrading speech that Portuguese immigrants in France had to hear from Jean-Marie Le Pen's mouth in the 1960s. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Our compatriots who had to listen, before the camouflage hide the true face of the National Front in France, do not have to listen in their representative Chamber to those who supposedly represent the Portuguese again invoking, in relation to those with whom we want to build the future, the same alleviations, the same degrading claims that they intend to discriminate and leave aside who, every day, I repeat again, often with great personal sacrifice, is exploited. How many times in this House we have not discussed the great difficulties that people who are on the strawberry takeover in areas of our territory where they are the only ones that are available to do so, with very low wages, without guarantee of any of their labour rights, and still do so by building our society. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On behalf of all these people, there are certain red lines that must be traced and, Mr President, thank you very much for your intervention, for the clarity with which you have done so, because you have represented all of us here and all the worthy people who in this country represent the Portuguese Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u83	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Liberal Initiative advocates freedom of movement and migration and believes that initiatives to promote regulated migration promote the development and economy of our country. But in order for this development to take place, it is necessary that the procedures be, firstly, efficient. What is currently happening with the granting and renewal of residence permits in Portugal is the opposite of what is intended. The overload of the SEF and the inability to process orders in good time is serious and well-known of all of us. Any measure aimed at simplifying procedures is welcome. Although it is considered that the Government's proposals do not have the capacity to solve this problem as a whole, we cannot fail to follow the efforts to simplify and encourage work in Portugal and the development of our economy. Because of the importance of this matter, the Liberal Initiative made proposals for amendments to the Government's proposal for a law which were adopted in committee. The first prevents people already installed in Portugal who request family reunification from seeing their claim frustrated because there has been a change in their initial situation during the processing time of the request, which is often unacceptable long. Thus, we ensure that people already installed in Portugal and who have a pending family regrouping request do not see excessive and unjustified delay in the process, their requests and their claim frustrated. The second proposal concerns the criteria for determining the danger of escape in the application of the cohesion measures provided for in the law of foreigners. The wording contained in the Government's bill was too broad and could justify the inclusion of all and any behaviour, not being a sufficiently guaranteed formulation. This criterion was replaced by the criterion proposed by the Liberal Initiative, more precise and concrete, and therefore respects the guarantees of defence of visas and the principles of adequacy and proportionality governing the application of these measures. Nevertheless, while we recognize the importance of moving forward with mechanisms that simplify freedom of movement and migration, we cannot fail to censor the accelerated legislative process to which this bill has been subject, which is already typical of the proposals of this Socialist Party Government. Once again, we have seen the Socialist Party's compression roll working and we cannot agree or accept that this legislative process, with the importance that we say it has, has been shortened.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u85	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u86	It was not guaranteed that the opinions of relevant entities, such as the High Commissioner for Migration, were before the discussion on the specialty, in committee, which is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u87	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u88	This process weakens this law and therefore does not guarantee the dignity we want in legislation aimed at improving the procedures for the reception of foreigners who want to reside, work and invest in Portugal. in more liberal Portugal, this legislative process would not have happened like this. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u89	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister : The fundamental reason for the exceptional urgency in assessing this bill was to follow up on the Mobility Agreement signed in Luanda, within the framework of the CPLP. This agreement, and its legislative translation in Portugal, is important and makes positive changes for citizens from other CPLP countries, but also for other immigrant citizens. The CFP voted in favour of the agreement and this proposal, although it recognises that it would have been desirable for its assessment to have been made with better conditions of time and debate. Although they persist in the so-called « law of foreigners », even with the approval of this bill, aspects with which the CFP does not identify itself, such as the subsistence of the visasgold, the truth is that the improvements that are to be approved today are very significant. Thus, a job search visa is created, which can have a great impact on the reduction of illegal immigration. Nationals of CPLP countries do not need a prior opinion of the SEF to obtain visas and there is a residence permit for the CPLP. They do not need to appear before the students who enroll in higher education and are able to work, ending an unjustifiable limitation on the right to work. The residence permit for students and researchers is now valid for three years, a proposal from the CFP with which we welcome it. [[PCP applause.]] The residence visa allows family members to follow up and includes a pre-authorization of residence with tax identification numbers, social security and SNS ( National Health Service ), often referred to as « magic numbers ». The share of employment opportunities, created by handover to the right of xenophobics, ends. Family grouping and regrouping are facilitated. The period of temporary residence permit is extended to two years, renewable for successive periods of three years. Foreign minors are entitled to family allowance. For refugees, the travel licence is no longer valid for one year and is valid for five years, renewable and with the rules of the Portuguese electronic passport. They are very positive changes. One less positive aspect is the introduction of the regime concerning the prohibition of exit of national citizens, unaccompanied minors and persons who are prevented from leaving the court. It is highly questionable that this matter should be included in what is called the « law of foreigners ». I conclude by saying that today's bill introduces improvements in the legal regime of immigration in Portugal, improvements that the CFP has been defending for many years. We have always said that immigration is a good, the illegality to which many immigrants have been convicted is a bad thing. And it is bad for everyone if we do not provide the ACT (Working Conditions Authority) and the SEF (if there is responsibility) of the conditions to prevent the use of the people seeking our country, the exploitation and trafficking of immigrants.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u91	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u92	For us to work with decent conditions, lives with decent conditions, not enough laws, we need to want and we need to act. Mrs. Members, a regulated immigration, which respects the rights of all citizens in conditions of effective equality, is a need that is being imposed and this law is an important step in this regard. Let us then match the words with the options. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u93	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u94	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members: There are evils that come for good, and you always breathe a little better now in the plenary. I would like to note that, for us, this issue is very important and should be treated seriously. On the one hand, because we know that populist and xenophobic speeches are exacerbated, as we have seen just minutes ago, here, when we discuss, both the Nationality Law and the entry, stay and work authorization regimes in one country. From that point of view, I believe that there is a general humanist truth, which is that we are all human beings and we should look at people as such, regardless of the country in which they are born. And this humanist truth must have as a consequence laws that also be so, and our law needed to be improved. There is a second truth that the xenophobic speech wants to forget: that foreign citizens living in Portugal have a net positive contribution to the economy, to taxes, that is, to public accounts, and to social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u95	Sir, allow me to interrupt you. There's a lot of noise in the hall. I call for the necessary silence so that we can hear Mr Pedro Filipe Soares. Please proceed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u96	Thank you very much, Mr President. For this reason, those who say that we facilitate entry into our country of foreign citizens—to seek work, to come to live a life that is expected to be happy — seeking subsidies, in fact, is not condemning any subsidies that the immigrant community, in Portugal, may eventually receive. As I said earlier, they are net contributors, give more benefit to social security, give more benefit to the economy, give more benefit to public accounts. In fact, this is once again a xenophobic speech now disguised, because what it is to take the subsidies to everyone, to create an burden on social support, when we know that in our country there are 4 million people in poverty, 2 million of whom come from this situation because of social support. That is why this prejudice against social support, which is now also prejudiced against immigrant citizens, is once again a xenophobic speech which, unfortunately, is also fat in the Assembly of the Republic. However, this law could have been better, and we, despite having approved the procedure as it was discussed and will be voted in the Assembly of the Republic, do not ignore that it was an extremely short time. The opinions came late and some of them with editorial details up to relevant. We therefore hope that the Government will have the ability, in the regulation of the law, to foresee some of the shortcomings that may possibly come out of here today. Secondly, the National Data Protection Commission itself draws attention to the indetermination of some of the data, particularly biometric data, which can be withdrawn from foreign citizens and, on the other hand, of the due safeguard of data exchange, whether between national entities or between international entities. From that point of view, these safeguards must be laid down both in the protocols and in the regulations. We hope that the Government will have that sensitivity, because otherwise we may be undermining the interests and rights of these citizens. Third, which is not irrelevant: this law lacks supervision on the ground. We believe that it can reduce the traffic effect of people who often enter our country by the hand of mafia, who, in their countries of origin, have the documents and serve as intermediaries in relations with the embassies, in the assignment of visas and also with the employer in Portugal. We think reality will improve with this law. However, several things are needed: that the embassies are able to respond in good time to these requests and that in Portugal the necessary supervision is not slowed down, particularly in the sectors we know that they have seasonal and more intensive labour, such as agriculture. From this point of view, Mrs Minister — you will still have two minutes to respond at the end — we do not understand how the Government presented a dignified work agenda last fall which said that, as far as migrant workers are concerned, agricultural holdings had to have the daily record of the workers there, and now, in the document that arrived at the Assembly of the Republic, the registration becomes weekly. Now, any loss of information is a gray area where the mafia can be synonymous and, from this point of view, we do not understand the retreat, so I would like to hear Mr. Minister's explanation on this matter. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u97	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister : A structural diploma such as this on foreigners and borders is not discussed like that. We regret the speedy way in which the Government intends to discuss a serious and important matter such as this one, without listening to those who are the main actors in the process, without listening to the competent authorities for its supervision, to the representative entities of the migratory world, and without taking into account the mandatory opinions. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we recognize that there are some important aspects, such as visas for CPLP citizens, visas for students and digital nomads and some simplification of procedures. However, there are others, Mr. As and Mr. Members, who deserve us many doubts, such as work visas and the follow-up of minors. One thing is certain: we cannot legislate in a hurry and with obedience to political timetables. The country does not gain anything from the accelerated and irresponsible discussion, which calls into question the most basic parliamentary rules and democracy. It is extraordinary how a legislative process with this complexity and density is treated and discussed by the Government, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. We do not speak of the mere amendment of one or two articles, but of a new regime, with about 290 pages, in which no one has heard, Mrs Minister. The Government's proposal goes far beyond updating and adapting the existing legal regime or agreement with CPLP: it creates new types of visas, eliminates opinions and amends procedures. We are faced with a complex legislative procedure, with a high technical density and which interferes with fundamental rights issues, with national and European migration policy and with genuinely sensitive family and minors issues, Mrs Minister, subjects which, in turn, would justify a normal legislative procedure. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government was quick to begin « building the house on the roof », forgetting the foundations and foundations, in particular to articulate this diploma with the announced extinction of the Foreign and Border Service and with Regulation Decree No 84/2007. by doing so, Mrs Minister, this proposal puts again « the carriage in front of the oxen ». [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u99	Pretend that everything is the same, all the same in relation to the tasks and competences of the SEF and then you will soon see it! But, after all, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, who will carry out the supervision of this diploma? Is it the SEF? Is this service going to be extinct or not? Who will replace you, Minister? Besides it's very important, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, to safeguard the existence of effective monitoring and control mechanisms, to ensure that the doors of entry into our country have not been unlocked and that they do not contribute to the illegal trafficking of human beings. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Minister, these issues, which are crucial to our internal security, will continue without being discussed and clarified, which is truly regrettable. This is, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, another unfortunate chapter on the disintegration and inability of the government in the field of internal administration. The Government continues to fail to implement the announced extinction of the SEF and the transfer of competences of this service. In the meantime, Mrs Minister, there are already more than 300 employees who have left this service and more than 165 000 — I repeat, more than 165 000 — the processes of demonstration of interest pending in the SEF. Portugal continues to lose skilled workers, in addition to compromising the next Schengen assessment on border management, which will take place at the end of the year. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD believes that a matter should be discussed with this importance by listening to experts. Moreover, the government has also lost an opportunity for us to solve the problem of Venezuelans in an irregular situation in the country, most of whom are currently living in Madeira. Mrs. Minister, Mrs. and Mrs. Members, the PSD is in favour of lusophone mobility, the attraction of qualified immigrants and the simplification of procedures. However, the diploma in question, as has already been quite clear here — I think that there has been no doubt of our intervention — even because of its impact, its structure and its parliamentary nature, does not, in our view, be compatible with a mere rectification vote of 'yes' or 'no', without any space for debate of the broad guidelines and for changes in technical, administrative and legal improvement. Therefore, Madam Minister, we must regret, as I said earlier, that a structural diploma like this, with this size, is debated in this way, without listening to the technical partners, without looking for the best solutions, without listening to the representative entities of the sector. It will be a bad result, as the latest advances have already been made in this area of internal administration, Minister! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u100	With no further interventions, we are going to end the debate. I call on the services which open the quorum verification period and I give the floor to the Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs, Ana Catarina Mendes, to close the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, I would like to welcome the general consensus in this House on the importance of this structuring diploma for the lives of many, especially those who arrive here; secondly, I would like to welcome those who have tabled proposals for amendments that have improved this diploma; thirdly, I want to say that we have heard society and heard the constraints expressed by society. [[PSD protests.]] The opinions reached by the Commission, Mrs Deputies, are all going to meet what is being enshrined in the law today, in particular that of the National Data Protection Commission - it will be a matter of implementing the General Data Protection Regulation for this law to be seen. As regards supervision, it shall be done, as it may be, by the competent authorities. In particular in seasonal migrants, it should continue to be done by the Working Conditions Authority, taking into account the reinforcement that has been made over time, and that is how it should continue, and this monitoring should be enhanced and improved. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am absolutely convinced that our lives are closely linked to the policies of each country, and that is why Portugal continues to be a country in the best practices of integration and reception of migrants. Finally, I want to say to the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, something important about what happened here this afternoon. I would like to greet the President of the Assembly of the Republic for the way he once again prestigious the House of Democracy. We may disagree, but we must be serene in our arguments, we must be able to find bridges in our differences and never, for never being, abandon the House of Democracy, because this is where it strengthens itself, this is where it consolidates itself, this is where human rights are gaining everyday expression. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This diploma is an expression of respect for human dignity and that is why it is so structural and so important for Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u102	This concludes the item on the agenda and, as it was right in the organization of this debate, we shall proceed to a voting period. I would ask the services to close the quorum verification period and ask whether any Member or Member has been able to register electronically. [[Pause.]] All those present have been able to register, so we will then proceed to this first voting period.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u103	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u104	Mr Rui Tavares asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u105	Mr President, for an appeal to the Bureau, in order to pass on to the technical services our difficulty in accessing the computer system, which has actually just happened now. Otherwise, I would not have access to my voting table.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u106	The question is resolved and we shall, in general, proceed to the vote on the replacement text, submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on the Proposal for a Law No 19 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Alter the legal regime of entry, stay, exit and removal of foreigners from national territory. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CFP and the BE and with abstentions from the PSD, the IL, the NAP and the L.]] We shall proceed to the vote, in particular, on the text of the replacement tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to which I have already referred by voting on the plenary of the indexary votes held in speciality within the Commission. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the CFP and the BE and IL, the NAP and the L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u107	Mr President, I am sorry, but both in the general vote and in the vote of the vote on the speciality held in the Commission, the Free vote is in favour. That's how it's right. I'm sorry for the confusion.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u108	I resolved this moment « hamletian», the truth is restored. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u109	Mr. President, will you excuse me?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u110	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u111	Mr President, it is to correct a sense of vote. The NAP votes in favour of the taking of the indexary votes held in the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u112	This 'Hamletian' half-time is also exceeded. Therefore, in general, the replacement text, submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, concerning the Bill No 19 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) was approved with votes in favour of PS, PCP, BE, L, and PSD, IL and PAN abstentions. The plenary session of the Indicative Votes held in special session in the Commission was also adopted and voted in favour of the PS, the PS, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L, with the abstention of the IL and in the absence of the CH. Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares asked for the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u113	Mr President, in this case there is no difference, because it has also failed the Commission in which we have voted on this matter as a specialist.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u114	We shall then proceed to the overall final vote of the replacement text submitted by 1. the Commission, on the Proposal for a Law No 19 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Alter the legal regime of entry, stay, exit and removal of foreigners from national territory. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L and with abstentions from the PSD, the IL and the NAP.]] We will move on to point 2 of the agenda, which is the general assessment of the Bill No 21 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 878 on access to banking and prudential supervision and Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 879 on recovery and resolution of credit institutions and investment firms. To present the bill, I give the floor to Mr. Secretary of State of the Treasury, João Nuno Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Credit institutions have a key role to play in financing the economy through their main activity in granting credit to families and businesses. The risks of this activity are varied and at different levels, either regarding each institution individually considered, or because of the systemic character. Therefore, the regulation of this activity is of the greatest importance. In order to protect creditors of credit institutions, particularly depositors, the legislation of the European Union and the national which covers the various dimensions of the risk of activity, both microprudential and macroprudential, has been progressively strengthened. The progressive increase in prudential requirements for credit institutions, in particular with regard to own funds or corporate government requirements, aims to guide and stabilize their activity through economic cycles, adapting to the diversity of contexts, ensuring the appropriate assumption of risks and own funds to manage those risks. This trend also occurs in the macro-prudential perspective, which aims to mitigate the accumulation of risks by the financial system as a whole. in this context, the reserves of own funds, capital cushions that serve to cushion external shocks or to deal with economic cycles are particularly important. These prudential instruments are also complemented by others who aim to prevent and manage possible risk situations of insolvency of credit institutions. The resolution regime includes both the procedures for its planning and the procedures for its implementation. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this bill aims to transpose CRD V ( Capital Requirements Directive ) and BRRD II ( Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive ). This proposal represents another step of legislative harmonisation within the framework of the European Union and of improving this regulatory integration, which cannot be dissociated from the movement of integration and banking union that is still under way. In the context of prudential supervision, CRD V promotes several changes: the requirement for diversity of the experiences and knowledge of the social bodies of credit institutions, as well as the assessment of the adequacy for the performance of functions, in particular situations related to whitening suspicions, is reinforced; the remuneration policy regime is adjusted, and gender neutrality in the remuneration policy is expressly recognized. In addition, the variable remuneration scheme is also required to require minimum periods of deferral of the variable component; the regulatory framework for additional own funds, determined or indicated by the prudential supervisor, is developed to ensure a more uniform and coherent application between supervisors in the European Union ; having regard to the importance of the function of the auditor of the credit institution and of the information duties before the supervisor, it is expected that its replacement may be determined in the event of non-compliance with these duties; the framework for cooperation in the prudential supervision of credit institutions with the entities responsible for the supervision of the legislation on the prevention of money laundering and with the financial information units. In the macro-prudential plan, CRD V significantly reviews the system of own funds reserves, in particular the reserve for institutions of systemic importance and the systemic risk reserve, as well as the own funds conservation measures, including a regime by reference to the leverage reserve ratio introduced into the European Union legislation. In the context of the banking resolution, BRRD II substantially covers the minimum requirement of own funds and eligible credits, the so-called MREL ( minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities ). The MREL aims to ensure that entities have adequate levels of own funds and eligible credits to ensure adequate capacity to absorb losses and recapitalise, if any, by pursuing the objectives of minimizing the risk of recourse to public funds and for financial stability. In addition, instruments at the disposal of the resolution authority are strengthened. This may limit the performance of certain own funds distributions by credit institutions when they do not meet certain criteria. It is also possible to temporarily suspend the fulfilment of delivery obligations or payment prior to the application of resolution measures under certain conditions. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Member States, Portugal needs a robust but also competitive banking system, considering that the Portuguese institutions compete in a wider and more integrated market by virtue of the banking union. Like other sectors, the banking sector faces new and complex challenges in the development of its activity, in particular in order to meet the trends of greater digitisation of the economy or in terms of sustainable financing, and also faces specific challenges, as is the case with the progressive increase in MREL requirements. The development of banking activity must be carried out with the necessary care, with caution and risk management, to ensure the proper protection of those who entrust their savings to credit institutions. The achievement of these objectives requires the presence of several elements: a sound government structure, adequate capital levels, adequate risk management, as well as active and effective supervision. We believe that this initiative adequately and proportionately promotes these objectives. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u116	Mr Secretary of State, the Bureau shall record an application for clarification. To formulate this, I give the floor to Mr Ivan Gonçalves of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u117	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members, the bill we are discussing today transposes the directives already mentioned and has two fundamental objectives: to strengthen the supervisory mechanisms of credit institutions and to strengthen the capacity to absorb losses in case of possible resolution. This law defines a set of good principles with regard to the establishment of social bodies, remuneration policy, the establishment of capital reserves or communication duties, which make the system more robust and reduce the risk associated with the activity of these institutions. But it also points to another concern, which we welcome: to promote equality between men and women, from the outset ensuring gender-neutral remuneration practices, i.e. ensuring equal wages for equal work. But it also states that the internal policy of selection and evaluation of members of the administrative and supervisory bodies should set targets for the representation of men and women, promoting policies aimed at increasing the number of persons of the least represented gender, usually women. These are objectives that we follow and which are in line with the advances that have been promoted in Portuguese legislation, by the hands of the Socialist Party, over the past few decades. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, the two questions that I ask you — together with due greeting — are whether the Government believes that the agencies that promote greater gender equality benefit from the way these societies are managed and controlled, but we are also accompanied by the consideration that this is, above all, a matter of justice, which seeks to end the role of women in our society, to which access to leadership and leadership positions has been historically vetoed, and whether this is a way of helping to break down obstacles so that women can occupy positions that are their own right. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u118	To reply, Mr. Secretary of State of the Treasury has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u119	Mr President, Mr Ivan Gonçalves, I thank you for your speech. We fully agree on the role that this diploma will play in building the solidity of the banking system. I must say that we have had an absolutely extraordinary evolution in the last seven years from the point of view of the ratios, whether of the NPL ( non-performingloan ) or of the ratio of own funds, whether of the resilience which the system has carried out, for example, when dealing with banking moratoriums. I would also like to stress what you said about the role that this regulation can play in fully affirming gender equality and the importance of women in the management of credit and financial institutions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u120	And not just!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u121	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Castro of the Liberal Initiative has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the Liberal Initiative we believe that the banking market is essential for the regular functioning of the economy. It is through banks that money is channelled to people and businesses and that consumer decisions are anticipated or postponed. It is a fundamental source for the capitalisation of companies, for the creation of wealth and employment. With importance comes responsibility. Recognising the role of the banking system in the economy implies conferring the instruments and responsibilities appropriate to the existence of appropriate banking supervision. The lack of regulation, or, in some cases, its failure to apply, has generated a huge cost for Portuguese in recent years. This cost is quantifiable : EUR 19 billion in the financial system—in the BPN ( Portuguese Business Bank ), in the BPP ( Private Bank Portuguese ), in the BANIF ( International Funchal Bank ), in the General Deposit Box, in the New Bank. This is a burden that weighs on all of us and that could often have been avoided. I would like to point out that it is difficult to understand the delay in the transposition of the two European directives which should have been completed by December 2020. If it is true that we live in difficult times, it is also true that we are the last country to make this transposition and the difficult times are not only for Portugal, they are for everyone. It is, once again, Portugal in the tail of Europe. This delay is also of concern if we consider that in October 2020 the Banco de Portugal, in coordination with the Ministry of Finance, promoted a public discussion with the aim of implementing the reforms translated into these directives, but also to simplify banking market law by compiling all this legislation in a single code for banking activity, aligned with the objectives of compliance with the banking union. What was done about this document? by delay, the government protected the current regime, hampering its interpretation and practical applications; prevented the timely review of the procedures relating to organizational culture and the corporate government of financial institutions; prevented the strengthening of the rules on conflicts of interest, about the fight against illegal activity. Because we want a healthy banking system, which promotes the economy, but which protects people as customers and citizens, it is important to review and update the powers and methods of supervisors and regulators, but it is also important to recognize that the current legal regime has often given sufficient powers of action that could have mitigated, if not prevented, many of the situations that have occurred, and on us prevents the debt we have to pay. We are now facing a set of changes in the financial landscape, since the rise of interest rates, the difficulty in the expected payment of loans, which is combined with a bank safeguard and supervision policy dated, and therefore these transpositions are urgently needed. With this government, we already know that everything comes late and everything comes in the form of contingency plans. It is important now that we do not let this reform, despite the delay, come too late and with a bad transposition. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u123	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Hugo Carneiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries : The transposition of these directives comes, as has already been said, out of time. One should have been transposed by 2020 - 2021 and the other by 2020. But, as it is usually said, it's better late than ever! And with the PS, it is worth more late than ever, since these directives actually bring relevant aspects in the regulation of the financial sector. Some of these aspects have already been mentioned here. For example, gender equality, which is an important issue. But it is also important that we — the Banco de Portugal, the financial regulators — know that loans are being made to the administrators of the institutions, and this transposition also safeguards this aspect, which is positive. There are worrying questions. After the experience of Banco Espírito Santo ( BES ) and the New Bank, we in Parliament — and the government should have taken care of this — should safeguard that some of the things that the committees of inquiry have already decided would not happen again. For example, it would not be possible for a settled institution to have no administrator appointed by the State when that institution benefits from public funds. This is what happened to the New Bank, and it is wrong, as we are seeing, until the last audit of the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors came to say that there were many assets, real estate or furniture, which were sold effectively to the wreckage, as the Commission of Inquiry to the New Bank has proved here. What did the Court of Auditors say? "It is true, yes, sir! » Some of them, one day for the other, valued 60 %, which was the profit that those who bought these assets managed to collect. And why? Because there was a guarantee that the State would inject the money needed up to EUR 3, 89 billion there. In 2017, the government did not safeguard the public interest...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u125	Nor do the directives safeguard!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u126	... and I am concerned that these transpositions also do not safeguard the public interest sufficiently, because the Government could have proposed, in this document which has nine hundred pages, with the publications, measures to mitigate these risks. For example, when there is a need to rebalance an institution financially, it could be written that there would be no sale to the disposal of assets or real estate when there is public money involved, as could be written about the issue of administrators, as I have already mentioned. But we find that he's not. There is another issue that concerns me, which has to do with unskilled investors. Article 138. o-BR of the Government proposal is said to be « for the purposes of acquiring instruments eligible for own funds, in accordance with the directive, there can be no investments less than €50 000 » — it does not have to be €50 000, each Member State decides how much it wants to place — and also refers to the need to protect the consumer by fixing this minimum of €50 000. The Banking Activity Code, which has already been in public discussion — has not yet reached this Parliament, but has already been in public discussion — before EUR 100 000. Why did the government opt for $50,000? Do you want pensioners, with their savings in a lifetime, to invest in funds that are of interest to the institutions that invest to one day, lose these funds if anything goes wrong? Oh, my God! You need to be careful about this, Mr. Secretary of State. I therefore appeal that, in the field of expertise, it be possible to substantially improve this. Are you prepared to prohibit the distribution of profits to financial institutions when they are benefiting from public funds? Do you agree, or not, that there is a ban on the distribution of profits, as happened in the New Bank? Everyone knows this and is highly controversial, it is, I would say, a real shame that there is the possibility of making profits distribution to managers when an institution benefits from public funds. More: does it agree, or does it not, with a State representation in the administration of an institution which also benefits from public funds and has been resolved? Finally, does it agree, or does it not, that the ban on selling assets for scrapping is envisaged? [[Protests from PS Eurico Brilliant Dias and Jamila Madeira Members.]] We have to find a legal formula, whatever it is, but it has to be registered there, because what happened in the New Bank should serve as an example for what we do not want to happen again in the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u127	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u128	And we also need to protect small investors. The €50 000 must be substantially raised, because the amount proposed by the government is very low and we are at risk of pushing consumers, small investors, pensioners, those who have a life savings, for a situation that is going badly, can lead to the loss of all their investments. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u129	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vera Braz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u130	Mr President, Mrs Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs, Mr Secretary of State for Treasury, Mrs and Mrs. Members: Protecting consumers from financial products, safeguarding depositors and investors and ensuring the stability of the financial system is to defend taxpayers. The Portuguese have no short memory, as well as the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, and we bear in mind the last global financial crisis that pressed the markets, pressured the financial institutions, with a consequent banking crisis that caused severe impacts on the national economy, our families and our companies. Banking behind banks, public intervention behind public intervention, obvious failures, irreparable consequences have broken the trust, credibility and reputation of the financial system. No, this debate is not new. We know that the fragility of financial supervision has long been recognized. For the Socialist Party, strengthening the financial system, having more resilient institutions, which returned confidence in the sector, supporting families in the recovery and financing of our businesses, was essential for stimulating the growth of our economy. This has been, and will be, a priority. The regular functioning of the banking market, with a culture of demand and transparency, plays a key role in efficient economic activity and its financing. We have no doubt: we need effective regulation and banking supervision, strengthening, strengthening, eliminating overlaps and regulatory gaps that only hinder the action of our national authorities. We need this regulation and supervision to enable us to reach a level of strength and resilience of the financial system as an instrument to ensure consumer rights and their confidence in products, services and financial institutions and to promote the stability needed to continue to grow. Portugal participated in the creation of the banking union in response to the 2008 crisis and the subsequent sovereign debt crisis in the euro area. The transposition of these directives is essential and the path that begins for the continuity of this European project makes even more sense today in the face of a context of uncertainty, in the face of a war whose consequences we still do not know. With a single set of rules for the financial sector of the European Union, which provide harmonisation of the regulatory framework, avoid distortions of the single market and promote consistency and comparability between jurisdictions, with own funds requirements, with rules to improve the guarantee of bank deposits and banking recovery and resolution rules, we guarantee a stable, safe and reliable sector with resilient banks able to withstand any crises, and ensure that, in the case of those who are not viable, their resolution, their losses are borne by shareholders and bank coordinators and not funded through taxpayers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is what the Socialist Party defends and will defend, today and always. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u131	To intervene, on behalf of the Left Block, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortagua.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State of the Treasury, Mr Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs: This bill amends the CRD and BRRD II. Anyone who didn't know what this is read the exhibition of motives and was exactly the same. The CRD is a directive that regulates access to financial activities and prudential supervisory matters; the BRRD is a directive that regulates bank recovery and resolution. That's the term. I know what I think about these directives. I also know that the directive on banking resolution is a disaster, which is part of the problem of financial crises and not part of the solution, and Portugal would have had much less difficulty in dealing with financial problems and the banking system if these banking resolution laws did not exist. But that's not what we're discussing. We are discussing the transposition of an amendment to these directives. The transposition of the amendment into these directives consists of a proposal for a law which has 934 pages. of these, 929 are articulated, four list the diplomas that are changed and there is a motivational exposure. Therefore, the Government submits to the Assembly a complex bill, which transposes two directives, which has 934 pages — it has just said that it was an exposition page but I want to change, it has two — for a general discussion. I wonder what we have come here to do and whether it is expected that the Assembly of the Republic will do its work in the field of expertise in a general debate. By reading the explanatory statement, what they say is that the CRD — which I know what it is, because I know the abbreviations, but I am not obliged — has changed a number of regulated matters, in particular the arrangements for measures and supervisory powers, clarifying the criteria for the application of additional own funds. What criteria? Oh, my God! In what way? Oh, my God! It also says that the system of own funds reserves has been revised — has it been revised how? Oh, my God! — as well as measures for the conservation of own funds with a view to strengthening them. But have you seen how the measures for the conservation of own funds? Oh, my God! All right, but I don't know what this means. He goes on to say: "It is reviewed the subject of paid practices and policies, ensuring greater proportionality. » Increased proportionality in what? Oh, my God! For whom? Oh, my God! It's not written here, so a person has to guess. It is then said: « New rules are laid down on the authorisation of financial companies and mixed financial companies. » But what rules? Oh, my God! In what way? Oh, my God! What is the intention of the amendment of the rules? Oh, my God! Then we moved on to BRRD. What's going on? Oh, my God! It is said that it deeply revises the system of the minimum capital requirement and eligible credits, known as MREL. All right, it is revised, but it continues to refer to 'particularly as regards eligibility' — ok, but what has become eligible and not, or what was eligible and no longer? Oh, my God! — 'and the determination of requirements for subordination and of transitional periods applicable. » What are the subordination requirements that are changed and what changes in the transition periods? Oh, my God! And it goes on to say that « it still confers new powers on the resolution authority, in particular the limitation to the delivery of distributions or suspension of delivery obligations» — I do not know what it is 'delivery obligations', I apologize, and even know BRRD very well — 'or payment, while adjustments are made in the planning of resolution and the application of resolution powers. “ What adjustments? ” Oh, my God! It also says that the rules of the lease-in are adjusted. The explanation of reasons is a list of what is done but generally, which does not allow us to have a political discussion about what is at stake.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u133	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u134	I will finish, Mr. President. That is why the discussion we had was of vague and empty phrases about what each of the parliamentary groups thinks about the banking system in general or about how important these directives are. I don't think it's a good way to have a debate. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u135	Mr Bruno Dias, to speak on behalf of the CFP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : The Government submits this bill to implement two directives — CRD V on banking supervisory mechanisms and BRRD II on bank resolution and investment firms. The Government wanted this 900-page initiative, which was presented in a hurry, to be discussed and voted on in one day, with the overall final vote today.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u137	Exactly! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u138	That's changed!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u139	But that was not accepted, and so well! I'm glad that didn't happen! It is also strange that the Government has now decided to make this transposition, which significantly amends the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies, the RGICSF, with 108 amended articles, when the new legislation of the Banking Activity Code, which, according to the Banco de Portugal itself, is in public consultation, would be the time to transpose these same directives, repealing the current RGICSF, now republished. In a country which has had so many harmful consequences because of the failures of the banking model of supervision and resolution, it agreed that the government should clarify this way of doing things. A public consultation is launched that mentions the transposition of these directives as part of the publication of the new Banking Activity Code. Then, after all, the directives are transposed autonomously, republishing the RGICSF. Later, will RGICSF be revoked and the new code published? Oh, my God! It is important to clarify this situation. On the content of these directives, the position of the CFP remains to reject this so-called "independent" supervisory model, which has failed as the 1000 notes, and so many of them have been! from BPN to the fraudulent resolution of BES, from the New Bank to BANIF, have already cost the public record billions of euros to save private banks who, after cleaning up with public money, remained private and, above all, handed over to foreign capital. In any of these financial scandals there is guilt in the political power, in the governors of Banco de Portugal, in the administrations of the banks. But apart from the actors in these real tragedies, it is also necessary to hold the model itself accountable based on false independence, which we question and that we counter to the only solution to place the bank and financial system at the service of financing the real economy, at the service of the country, which is the guarantee of public control over the bank and the financial system. As long as rules are changed within this supervisory model, which seeks to moralize the remuneration of the high banks, which strengthen the powers of the resolution authorities, these changes are no more than changes to a model that does not serve, as has been seen, neither financial stability, nor the safeguarding of public time, nor the ability of the State to intervene in a strategic sector such as that of the bank, placing it at the service of the common interest. The path of banking union, which is reinforced here, is the path of banking concentration, promoting the creation of private transnational capital megabanks, in which countries such as Portugal increasingly cease to have a national base banking system, being swallowed, particularly by the Spanish capital that now dominates a significant part of the bank in our country. Life has shown that the bank is either public or non-national. The Portuguese have already buried millions to save the losses of the private bank, without at least recovering these banks into the public sphere. With these changes, something is changed so that everything remains the same. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u140	Mr Rui Tavares, from the Free Party, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs, Mr Secretary of State of the Treasury: It is customary to say that, when it comes to the transposition of directives, there are two schools: there are states that transpose at least, i.e. do what is there and the others are not required, and there are states that transpose what is there and still add a number more things that they already wanted to transpose. The Portuguese State has a third technique, which is to transpose late and bad hours, and that is what we should start by avoiding. I should like to mention that the Free House, in its discussion of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, proposes that a quarterly debate be held on European legislative initiatives at the time of its entry, which is to catch up with the directives at the outset. Since 2019 we could be discussing this. But also — let us be fair! — the banking union and the debate on it did not start yesterday, started in the European Union, with the euro area crisis. This is about banking union since 2013, since the first versions of these directives, and in this matter it is either against or in favour. Anyone who wants to link states with banks, then, in that case, must want the European banks to secure themselves. Obviously, these directives have passed through the European Parliament, where the parties represented here have their political families and where there have been shadow rapporteurs and rapporteurs, so they know the second versions of these directives, they know how they voted in the European Parliament and have positions on it. I could say here, in a brave way, that the position of the political family to which the Free is very clear, but it is not for one reason: this directive does not go in the direction of banking union as it should go and, therefore, the European Greens abstained. Why? For there to be a banking union there is one thing that is essential and we still do not have, that there is a common European deposit guarantee that is the same for all European States. When a person enters a bank agency, he or she shall see a plaque back there, as in other equivalent systems, saying « his or her deposit is secured at European level ». Without this, we will not have banking union and, therefore, we will not be able to follow this initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u142	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present: As regards this transposition of directives, particularly in the dimension of gender equality, inequality between men and women is a structural problem and a scourge that still persists in the twenty-first century, whose walls are about to collapse, we must bear in mind that 7 out of every 10 unskilled workers are women, which means that women have more precarious working conditions and suffer more from unemployment, without forgetting the scourge of other dimensions, including poverty, including that of menstrual poverty, and precariousness. Nor can we forget that, from the point of view of companies and the bank itself, there is still a supply of leadership positions to be carried out, in addition to wage inequality, which is just our daily bread, requiring women to work more than 51 days to equal the wages of a man, but this one is expected to close only in 2052. This proposal, in spite of bringing some innovations in this area, ends up, in our view, being somewhat ambitious. On the one hand, it seeks to break down another wall, it is true, that of wage inequality, and determines a gender-neutral remuneration policy that is transversal to the entire banking institution, but on the other hand, it leaves out the representation of women at the top of the posts, in particular the representation of the bank. The NAP believes that this should also be a step promoted by Portugal and, in this sense, as a specialist, we will present a proposal for the establishment of gender quotas in the bank's executive positions. We obviously hope that the Government and the PS Parliamentary Group will be available, as well as the other political forces, to accompany us.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u144	To close the debate, Mr. Secretary of State of the Treasury, João Nuno Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to stress the importance of this diploma as a basis for the protection of depositors and taxpayers and also stress that, often, the discussion on the future of the banking system is limited to certain facts that have happened and that have been very negative in the history of the banking sector, with great consequences from the point of view of deficit and debt, but we should recognise that many changes have happened, and that is not recognized. The NPLs in Portugal have decreased from 10, 4 % to 1, 7 % in seven years, which is an absolutely extraordinary development, and we are comparable at European level. As for equity ratios, we are more than two points above what we were seven years ago, and this must be emphasized because there have been changes in regulation, and some of the issues contained in these directives are already being implemented through the supervision carried out by the ECB ( European Central Bank ) and the Banco de Portugal. As far as banking moratoriums are concerned, our banking system has proved an extraordinary resilience — we recently had EUR 48 billion in banking moratoriums — and it was thanks to the government's action that we had a moderate attitude in its definition and we were able to absorb perfectly. On timing, the Banking Activity Code is of great importance. We anticipated the directives precisely for reasons of compliance with the time we now have for their transposition, and the Banking Activity Code is being duly analysed by the government, looking at the results of the public consultation, which have not revealed unanimity. Therefore, in order to present an initiative to Parliament, the Government must support its positions. The Code was presented to us in April 2021 and we must not forget that in the meantime there was no government because the government was laid down by a budget proposal that was not approved. As far as resolution matters are concerned, I think it is very important that we take into account the evolution that is being made and the inexperience that our country has had to deal with a set of circumstances. at present, in the European framework, as a result of the evolution of the banking union, this whole matter is properly systematized. We will have, by supervisory action and based on the directive, plans for resolution by bank institution. I therefore do not see in any way how they find anything negative in this resolution. We are talking about cushions that are structured, for cyclical reasons and systemic risk, that were vital in the COVID period, that were considered by supervisors, that were slowed down and that were used to keep banks lending to the economy. Thus, when we make this discussion, it would be very important to understand the evolution of our banking system and, more importantly, the ability that the State has had, thanks to the fundamentals of its fiscal policy, to lend to the banks, due to the increase in the rating of the Republic, the increase of its own rating. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u146	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded the second item on our agenda, so we move on to the third item, which consists in the assessment of the Annual Internal Security Report ( RASI ) on 2021. To submit the report, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to leave a previous note to say that this Annual Report on Internal Security is essentially based on the crime involved, which means that we should take into account that the scope of the crime we are observing is that of which the authorities record a number of social phenomena addressing the institutions for registration purposes. As a second previous note, which I also think is important, I must point out that this is a crime involved at a time when we were living in a pandemic. And we must not forget that the indicators that are available today correspond to two years of pandemic, 2020 and 2021, and we should not look at these numbers without considering them in this social context that we all live in. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to leave a few more notes. over the last 15 years, Portugal has seen, in a sustained way, crime numbers decrease. This means that Portugal continues to be part of the most peaceful and safer countries in the world, which is very relevant to the life of our country, either from the point of view of social cohesion, or from the point of view of the conditions of economic development, the attractiveness of investment and the creation of conditions of employability, the full realization of our society and the full performance of the functions of our social state, but also of its sovereign functions. In 2021, general crime increased slightly, 0, 9 %, which shows that, as the definition occurred, there was a tendency that, together with this social and economic defination, would increase the propensity for acts that attack the rule of law and the democratic legality. I would also like to stress that serious and violent crime has decreased 6.9%, which means that the crime that is the subject of our greatest attention today had a significant decrease in 2021. However, in a more careful manner, which is required by the public authorities, it is possible to see that there is an increase, although there is a general decrease in juvenile crime and group crime by 7, 3 % and 7 % respectively. As regards domestic violence, there was a 4 % reduction. In the framework of road safety, although the country in the last 10 years has experienced a decrease in road fatalities, the number of fatalities and also the number of serious accidents, we must not fail to regret that, nevertheless, there have been about 400 deaths on the Portuguese roads and more than 2200 serious injuries, which makes it an imperative issue of national awareness of our collective duties, but also of the duties of the public authorities. I remember that the Portuguese firefighters, for those who let me remain a word of gratitude, and the package of protective and rescue devices provided more than 1 million assistance, not only in emergency health care, but also in health care and in the transport of people who lacked this support. Depending on the relatively positive data and the historical background we have come to know, we could be satisfied, but that was not the attitude of the government. The attitude of the Government has been to act to seek to act in sectors and areas where we can come to work. For this reason, we are developing the integrated urban security strategy 2022 - 2026, which has been set up as an integrated evaluation committee for juvenile crime and violent crime, which will seek to assess the intensity of this violence. We are relaunching local security contracts and relaunching and strengthening programmes to the school universe, i.e. the younger ones, but also the older ones, and, as regards road safety, very soon will be known for public discussion, the National Road Safety Strategy 2021 - 2030 - Vision Zero 2030. In conclusion, I would like to say that we have, as you know, an extensive and consistent programme of valorisation and dignity of the conditions of forces and security services. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u148	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we are talking about Portugal's internal security data in 2021 and we are dealing with a report still marked, in several indicators, by the pandemic crisis, which has improved or has only hidden some criminal indicators. However, we now face an inflationary and economic crisis which will certainly ruin the already insufficient income of Portuguese and threaten social balance. To date, Portugal maintains a good position in the Global Peace Index, remaining successively among the safest countries in the world. This recognition of our country, our population and our culture reminds us of important points, such as that we should not embark on security temptations, since, globally and in comparison with other countries, Portugal is still considered a safe country, except for a few exceptions — the shameful exception of domestic violence, which continues to check an exaggerated number of participations and whose victims will certainly be far superior to those reported. The Government must be attentive to the debates in this House and insist on the adoption of policies that mitigate this scourge. On the other hand, I refer to the gross exception from the traffic in light drugs, which is permanently in a position at the summit with regard to the number of seizures and the quantity seized. This House must take account of this fact and guide its legislative policy towards the legalization of light drugs. The lamentable exceptions to group crime and juvenile crime have increased by around 8 % the recorded occurrences, while the number of security forces continues to decrease. Only in 2021, the country ran out of 400 of these operations. This leads us to wonder: how long and how will the State maintain this summit position on peace indices without a correct, sufficient and persistent investment in its security forces? Deinvestment is clear. The financial implementation of the amounts provided for in the Infrastructure and Equipment Programming Act of 2021 was 41 %. This means that, in total, less than EUR 50 million was executed than was planned. This policy of captivating and de-investment in that which is the first line of defense of the rule of law deserves our concern because it will lead to the degradation of State institutions, which guarantee the normal functioning of civil society, businesses, families and people every day. Improving or maintaining current crime rates, with this policy of reduced budgetary implementation, will prove to be a complicated mission, if not impossible. The Government must, contrary to what it has done, work to avoid further degradation of State and security forces services, an essential function of the State and of any liberal society. We cannot allow the internal security of our country to be another area in the pattern that is already an image of this government: the inability to solve problems and manage the country. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u150	For an intervention on behalf of the NAP, Mrs Inês Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: I want to leave two notes on the Annual Internal Security Report, taking into account the time available. From now on, I leave a note concerning gender-based violence. While we know that gender violence is a scourge that continues to affect not only our country, but also, according to the UN Secretary-General (United Nations ), half of the world's population, the report we appreciate here today shows us that, in fact, the crime of domestic violence is the most involved criminal typology, although we can't ignore the apparent decline that it will still have the effects of the pandemic. It has very high participation rates, it remains a real scourge and we cannot forget that it has risen more than 8 % in about 639 cases. The same is true in the context of sexual crimes, which have increased by more than 26 %, and some 82 cases have already been noted. These data must call on us, and on the Government, especially in terms of legislative power, to prevent both the application of the law, because we continue to have numerous sentences that result in mere suspensions, we can in fact make changes, in particular in the criteria for suspending the penalty. In conclusion, another aspect that we cannot fail to mention relates to the registration of crimes against pets. The number of complaints made to the Animal Defense Line has ceased to appear in this report as well as the counter-ordering cars that are registered. Recalling here the link between violence against people and animals, in fact, these were data that indicated and that helped us contribute to greater prevention, so we find it incomprehensible not only that this information ceases to appear, but also that, given that there is an increase in this type of criminal typology, before a more awakening society, we are now in the imminent presence of the Constitutional Court to declare the unconstitutionality of such crimes, at least in what is its section.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u152	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Free House.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, Secretary of State : The reports, such as this Annual Report on Internal Security, have this characteristic, which we must oppose, to make what is concrete and very personal impersonal. Behind each crime, there is one person, he is a victim and it is in the specific case of that person that we should focus, particularly on what is the most shocking crime that is unfortunately so prevalent — often the summit, district, of our territory — that is domestic violence. The numbers of victims of domestic violence were raised again. I do not know whether, one day, as is the case in other Parliaments of countries with which we like to compare ourselves, we should not read the names of these victims, in order to enable us, at that time, that it will certainly be hard, that, until we act all — government, Assembly of the Republic, authorities — we cannot end this scourge. The time I have is short and therefore I necessarily want to concentrate, in these remaining seconds, only on one element: trafficking in human beings. The report states that there are significant situations of documentary irregularity in Lezíria do Tejo, Odemira and Évora. What monitoring actions on the ground do there really exist? Are they enough? If they're not, what do you propose for your reinforcement?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u154	To intervene, on behalf of the Left Block, you have the floor of Mrs. Joana Mortagua.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : unlike the opportunism of some political forces, moreover, demonstrated by the absence here in the plenary and also fed by some press, Portugal is a safe country. However, this notion has a tragic and brutal exception: Portugal is not a safe country for women. This is what domestic violence figures systematically say in Portugal, especially the violence figures committed against women by their companions or former companions, the most involved crime, the most deadly crime in Portugal. So it is worth continuing to ask: where are we failing to protect these women? In the words of the Attorney-General of the Republic, we have « a legal order with a robust legal arsenal », but we also have in the words of Lucília Gago, « a clear shortage of means and human resources to combat domestic violence ». The pilot project of integrated sections of domestic violence, whose evaluation is positive, is symptomatic, but not only is it not extended throughout the territory, as in fact it works with half of the employees it should work with. So I ask: have we stood up in the fight against domestic violence? Do we agree with RASI's systematic numbers? The truth is that Machism did not stagnate and gender-based violence did not give way and RASI raises the tip of the veil over another reality of gender-based violence, which is sexual violence. What RASI tells us is that, in the future, it will deserve particular attention to the number of victims of rape unrelated to their aggressors and also draws attention to the age-scale steps of victims and rape aggressors, one of the crimes that have suffered most in this RASI. That's why I wanted to draw attention and make two calls. An appeal is for us to look very carefully at the petition that we will discuss at the next Legislative Session on the consecration of rape as a public crime. The other appeal is a question: I wanted to ask the PSD and the Liberal Initiative directly if we can even get the education of this equation and if we can even find that we can embark on the "Trumpist" Machism, a Lusitanian version, which says that gender equality is an optional matter in society and that, therefore, machismo is a matter of freedom. What the Annual Internal Security Report says is that there is a problem of male violence. My question is: how do they intend to combat violence without fighting machismo and how do they intend to fight machismo without educating young people and children for gender equality? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u156	To speak on behalf of the Portuguese Communist Party, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The Annual Internal Security Report systematizes information on crime and is, in fact, an essential tool for assessing and monitoring the state of internal security in Portugal. It allows us to have an integrated view of reality and is a working tool for the analysis of criminal policy and the performance of our security forces and services in the prevention and repression of it. From now on, this 2021 Report, with its operational results, reflects, in a certain way, the evolution of COVID-19 and the measures implemented for its fight, despite demonstrating that crime, both general and violent and serious, records values below those of the pre-pandamy period of 2019. In fact, there is a trend towards the decline of the last 15 years, both in general crime and in violent and serious crime. Before highlighting elements of concern and reflection, we wanted to say here that this report shows us something with the greatest relevance at the time we live: we do not have a problem of lack of laws or inadequate laws in criminal matters. We need, yes, to respond seriously to complex problems and social problems and to strengthen a close action. We cannot but say that, yes, we are concerned about security, but we do not make it a political weapon. Some people worry about crime and use it to pull political dividends.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u158	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u159	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u160	Regarding the issues of concern, domestic violence is the most involved crime, with 26,520 complaints, despite a slight decrease that has already been noted here. This shows that there is a long way to go through equality and that, in the prevention and combat plan, there is still so much to do. In the same sense, rape crimes deserve a reaction. Crimes of the type of computer burla and communications, which are clearly increasing, and economic and financial crimes, including money laundering, require strengthening of appropriate means for combating and research, by the very nature of these crimes, require technological adequacy of the means and require strengthening in prevention and combat. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add only three blocks of questions for reflection in this House. First of all, what explains a greater adherence to extreme-right movement that RASI identifies? What answers are being given, or are not being given, that make a young person, for example, see himself in one of these movements? Are the political options being able to give people perspective? Second block of questions: what impact will the extinction of the SEF have on the various levels? What will be the practical, not only statistical, result of the government's choice of crimes such as trafficking in human beings and related crimes? One last, but very important question: every year, we recognize and greet the results of crime prevention and repression. It is said here with joy — and we share this joy — that Portugal is one of the safest countries in the world and demonstrates the effectiveness and efficiency of our forces and our security services, but it is impossible to maintain this with the government's policy for its security forces and services.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u161	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u162	These numbers are reached at the expense of poorly paid professionals, tired, because they have to supplement the salary, with extra hours, with gratified...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u163	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u164	...and with sacrifices of personal and family life. In the near future, we will have serious shortcomings. We must pay attention to the renewal of the effectives, but also to their maintenance, so that these numbers remain. This is a reflection that the Government has to make and, above all, it has to motivate its action. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u165	The National Health Service was also the best in the world! And now! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u166	To speak on behalf of the Socialist Party, you have the floor of Mrs Cláudia Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u167	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : The Annual Internal Security Report is an essential tool, because it gives us a picture of the crime we have and of the responses given by security forces and services. It is mainly from the analysis of this portrait that parliamentary groups must then consider the political-criminal needs and make their proposals. When we look at a portrait made up of many images, each of us chooses parts. I am going to start there, on two sides—the one that stands out and the one that is not seen—to try yet a weighting of the whole, of the global image. What stands out, at least in our eyes, is domestic violence, as has been mentioned here. The number of participations fell 4 % compared to the previous year, but domestic violence is still the most common crime in Portugal, and this is unbearable. The fight against domestic violence must be a national plan and it is the imperative that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group elected for this legislature. In a sense, all crimes begin to happen long before we give them, but some crimes have deeper roots, it is before itself in ancestral inequalities that a certain right has chosen to ignore. As for this, Mrs Joana Mortágua, we fully agree. In fact, RASI has no doubt: 75 % of the victims of domestic violence were women and 81 % of the complaints were men. It is therefore evidence that domestic violence prevents itself from fighting inequalities, fighting a certain representation over those who are the roles of men and those who are the roles of women. However, we also know that, when the crime has already happened, they are needed quick answers and, therefore, we highlight the news that we arrived two days ago that we have 55 more vacancies in shelters for victims in Braga, 25 more vacancies for emergency reception and 30 more vacancies in a foster home in Braganza. [[P.S.'s applause.]] When we analyze RASI, we should know that what we don't see has its own weight. criminology calls black figures to what is not seen, the crime that exists but that is not dealt with by formal control bodies. It is also in this respect that the crime of trafficking in human beings continues to concern us. Among the invisible victims are still victims of trafficking in human beings, although there has been a significant increase in targeted victims — 273, 87 more than in 2020. But we know that the times of great migration, associated with the war of Ukraine and other scourges, are a very, very fertile land for human traffickers. And so we need an even more efficient investigation, we need victims to trust the possibility of being helped, because they are not afraid to be treated themselves as illegal immigrants. We hope that the restructuring of the SEF can promote this purpose and we also welcome, for all this, the proposal for a government law that we are discussing today. And we'll only have time for the global image. The image of a country which in 2021 had an increase in general crime of less than 1 % compared to 2020 — the year of the largest confinement — but which had less crime in 2021 than recorded in all 15 years prior to 2020. The image of a country where violent and serious crime has decreased by almost 7%, representing this serious crime less than 4% of the crime involved. I do not resist trying to respond to the perplexity expressed by the Liberal Initiative when it asks why a country where investment in security forces is scarce is one of the safest countries in the world. The answer is simple, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz: it is because we are not a liberal country, we are a state of social law. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[IL protests.]] If you look around, if you do a comparative study, you will see that countries that spend more on public school and public health spend, all of them, less on chains. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u168	The Prime Minister said, days ago, that populists are feeding on problems while the parties in charge are trying to solve them — populists who have chosen not to be here discussing RASI! This RASI shows that we cannot disregard crime as the real problem of people who need answers, but also shows that nothing justifies a hysterical reaction to crime and shows that our humanist criminal policy has produced results that deserve to be welcomed and that are confirmed by this Report. We continue to be one of the safest countries in the world and therefore do not defend our humanist model of reaction to crime and our 1976 constitution by attachment to the past, we defend that, yes, because we think they are the best passport for the future. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u169	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr André Coelho Lima has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u170	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : By analysing the Annual Report on Internal Security, I will help myself from the words now used by Mrs Cláudia Santos regarding what is RASI. The honourable Member said that the report reflects the crime we have and the answers we must give. Later on, you'll understand why I made this quote. First of all, we have to do an analysis of the document itself. It is a document that makes itself a mirror of the situation of crime in the country. Depending on what we see, we must guide our political action. Each of the different political forces chose the subjects on which it should reflect. We consider the grotesque of domestic violence, which has a reduction of 4 %, but which is a crime that we all have together and which, in fact, continues with very high numbers, as Mrs Deputy said, being the most involved crime in this country and something that we all owe. There is a nuance that needs to be noted here: violence against minors, despite this reduction of 4 % — which is still small — has a worrying increase of 8, 1 %. We will not, of course, make the connection to media cases that we all know, but the truth is that it is a matter that we have to worry about, and much, and we have to be very uncomfortable about continuing at very high levels. Then I point out computer crime. I'd say we're talking about people's insecurity in cyberspace and even in their own homes, where we use the computer. And here is positive news: a stabilization of this level of crime. We have computer crime to reduce 10, 5 % and the computer joke to increase 7, 7 %. That is to say, there is a stabilization because we had 60 % and 70 % increase figures in previous years, and this is also important to record. Finally, surprisingly little talked and that contributes to insecurity in the public space, on the street, is the very significant increase of group crime and associated with juvenile crime. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u171	We have an increase of 7, 7 % of group crime and 7, 3 % of youth crime. It is, I would say, not a new criminal phenomenon, but a new dimension of this criminal phenomenon which, of course, has to involve us and worry about. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD, as always is its habit, presents the analysis and also presents the proposals that contribute to the improvement of the document. As has already been said in the Internal Security Council, the PSD considers that the report, without prejudice to its fact being very thorough, should have a multiannual analysis because even the balance sheets of companies have an analysis of the current year and the previous year. In order to better analyse the sequence of crime phenomena, we cannot limit ourselves to the last year's analysis, so the document must be multi-annual. More: The report must contain the analysis by security forces and services. In order to do what Mrs Cláudia Santos said, to organize ourselves in the answers we have to give, we need to have a holistic view of the internal security system, we have to see where we can improve in operational terms, we need to see if there are security forces and services to intervene on the same site. In other words, look at this as a management document and not just as a document for political analysis. After reviewing the report, after submitting the PSD contributions, it is necessary to analyse the government's performance in the face of what the numbers give us. So we have, as we have seen, the very significant increase in group crime and juvenile crime. What is the government's response? Mr. Minister of Internal Administration appoints a committee. It's the usual answer. And after appointing the committee, it sets a time limit for it to draw a conclusion: one year! Look, one year! There is something that concerns the Portuguese today, 2021 numbers, but there by 2023 the government will know what to do. One year!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u172	That's not true! That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u173	from a political point of view, Mr Minister, I note 20, because politically it has passed a positive message, and from an executive point of view I give you zero, because there is only inaction. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u174	Mr Minister, let me tell you something curious: the Safe School Programme, the PSP (PSP) and the GNR ( Republican National Guard), which is a programme that is with young people, where this crime phenomenon is increasing, has a reduction of 6 %. That is, in a place where such a social state could be seen, where we could increase security, what we do is exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u175	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u176	Even to conclude, Mr President, I would like to note the following: if RASI serves to assess the answers we must give, the answers we give are in the law of criminal policy. I shall even read what the law itself says: "The conduct of criminal policy comprises, for the purposes of this law, the definition of objectives, priorities and guidelines on crime prevention, criminal investigation, criminal action and enforcement of penalties and security measures", i.e. a structural document. Do you know what this law also says? It reads as follows : « The Government, in the conduct of the country's general policy, submits proposals for legislation on the objectives, priorities and guidelines of criminal policy (...) », which are presented every two years until 15 April. I would like to inform the Minister that the criminal policy law has expired, better, it will expire on 1 September. From 1 September Portugal has no law of criminal policy, because you are unable to take what the report tells us and do what you have to do, which is to manage and act. [[PSD applause.]] No, it will expire the law and now take advantage of this PSD aid to enter a proposal, quickly, in September, to see if we are short of time with the expired law. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u177	This concludes our assessment of the Annual Internal Security Report. We then turn to the fourth item on the agenda, which concerns the General Account of the State of 2020. To open the debate, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs, Mr. Antonio Mendonça Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The plenary of the Assembly of the Republic today discusses the General Account of the State of 2020. The year 2020 was, as we all know, a year of enormous demand in a context we never imagined possible. In fact, the pandemic led to a very significant set of restrictions on mobility worldwide, interrupting supply chains, closing wide sectors of economic activities, confining people, modifying methods and organization of work. The year 2020 was undoubtedly a major challenge for our lives and, unfortunately, for the subsequent events of war in Europe — those already arising from the human will — the prelude of a difficult time and uncertainty, the time that we are living today in 2022. To discuss, therefore, the General Account of the State of 2020 is to bear in mind this whole context because it is this context that enables us to understand and discuss with healthy democratic divergence the exercise of the economic and budgetary policy of this already apparent year of 2020. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the restrictions imposed by the pandemic have had an immediate effect from the budgetary point of view — less revenue and more expenditure. The state revenue fell by 2020, more than EUR 6 billion where the fall in tax revenue is more pronounced. at the same time, only the overall impact of the COVID measures, on the side of expenditure, was about EUR 5.7 billion. The COVID expenditure is driven to a large extent by employment support policies — translated either in simplified layoffs or in extraordinary support for reducing economic activity or standardisation — as well as by increased intermediate consumption, based on the cost of acquiring individual protective equipment, and on the increase in staff costs inherent in the hiring of professionals for SNS. in the context of strong difficulties for businesses and families, public investment still grows 11 % compared to 2019. And in the face of the difficulties of companies, it is worth noting that late payments from the State to the same companies reach the lowest value in 2020 since it is reported in this series — less than 13 % compared to 2019 and representing only one tenth of what was late payments in 2011. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have always been well aware of our obligations towards the country in 2020: to ensure all means to combat the pandemic, to preserve productive capacity, to maintain jobs and businesses. We have always defined this as essential for Portugal to be prepared for the recovery which, inevitably, would follow the first shock of the pandemic. We therefore acted in conjunction with a sense of responsibility for the future. It is true that 2020 has had a deterioration of the main macroeconomic and budgetary indicators. GDP ( gross domestic product ) fell 8, 4 % by 2020, interrupting a series of convergence with the euro area we have witnessed since 2016. The budget balance increased from 0, 1 % in 2019 to a deficit of 5, 8 % in 2020. The primary balance increased from 3 % in 2019 to 2, 8 % in 2020. The public debt ratio as a percentage of GDP at the end of 2019 was 116, 6 % and increased 18, 5 percentage points by 2020. Finally, and no less important, the unemployment rate in 2020 was 7, 3 % compared with the 6, 9 % rate we had in 2019. But if this is true, it is also true that today we can say that Portugal is one of the countries of the European Union that has better recovered from the economic and social shock of the pandemic. According to recent forecasts by Banco de Portugal and the European Commission, Portugal will return to convergence with the euro area by 3, 5 percentage points by 2022 and 0, 5 percentage points by 2023. Portugal's accumulated growth between 2020 and 2023 will be 4, 3 % and will represent not only the recovery of the pandemic fall but also a convergence of 1,7 percentage points with the euro area. The budget balance was already below the 3 % limit in 2021 and by 2022 we will certainly have further improvement, as is the result of all known estimates. The primary balance recovered in 2021 and will continue to recover in 2022. Finally, the unemployment rate is now 5, 9 %, recovering 2, 4 percentage points from the pandemic, showing the resilience of our labour market. Ending, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the year 2020 was indeed difficult, but it showed a prepared Portugal, with certain accounts and strong public services. The responsibility with which we face the management of the pandemic crisis has enabled us to respond in the present without compromising the future – and what a difficult situation we faced again in 2022! That is why, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here, with the same strength and determination. We will continue to manage budgetary policy with responsibility and ambition, making our State stronger and more effective, fulfilling the present and ensuring, with all, the future of the next generations. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, he took the presidency of Vice-President Adam Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u179	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. After the debate has been opened by the Secretary of State, we will continue with the speeches. We have already registered a number of Mrs. Members, the first being Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN, to whom I give the floor immediately.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u180	Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Regarding the General State Account, there are two dimensions we would like to observe. On the one hand, in view of the situation, particularly with regard to inflation, rising prices for fuels and energy — whether gas or electricity — it was said in the budget report that there would be a phased elimination of the exemption from the ISP (tax on oil and energy products) and even the extension of its end to other petroleum products. However, when we look at the General State Account, we see that the values of the tax bills that continue to be given in terms of ISP amount to EUR 588 million plus 12, 6 % more than in 2019. That is to say, contrary to what the UN and the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development) have asked States for, we continue to give profits to large pollutants when, in fact, we could be fighting inflation through the regulation of the maximum ceiling on fuels — which has not yet happened, despite the letter of the law. in this sense, Mr. Secretary of State, it would be very important to know when the regulation that is missing is planned, since the way we reach businesses and families, in the view of the NAP, is by this way. On the other hand, there are pledges of love for the environment that are forgotten, particularly with regard to Agenda 2030. There is no link with the Sustainable Development Goals.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u181	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u182	I will finish, Mr. President. The NAP will present and propose this regulation so that, in the next State Budgets and General Account, we can see to what extent we are or are not following international environmental protection objectives.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u183	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Castro of the Liberal Initiative has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u184	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: We have a number of problems. I could talk about the poor performance related to the management of COVID-19 and the poor international comparison of support to families and businesses. It was also clear at the hearing with the Secretary of State for the Budget the problem of the State real estate inventory. In fact, in a housing market where the lack of supply is a problem that pressures prices, this issue is another area in which the State does not do what it deserves and does not even know what it has. Worse, no longer knew before, now pushed the inventory to the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan), but when we asked when it was implemented, we had the answer that the PRR ended in 2026. This is a crucial issue, the state needs to know the heritage, have to do good management and should be part of the supply solution on the market. But I will stop in my speech on management and transparency. On the General Account of the State of which one takes account of certain accounts, I would like to begin by recalling what the Court of Auditors' opinion says on the first page: « The central administration account is affected by materially relevant errors. Do not keep on seeking. ” If he was a student, he would lead; if he was a company, he would pay a fine; but the government is: "We are solving. » Weak comfort—and even worse than a government that has been in office for so long. On the Social Security Account, the sole prosecutor of the Institute of Financial Management of Social Security presented a "declaration of the impossibility of legal certification of accounts" and did not issue that certification because he considered it not to gather sufficient elements to form an opinion. We continue the problems — the time I would not have to state them all —: lack of balance sheet and demonstration of results of central administration, exclusion from budgetary implementation of central government entities, incorrect revenue specifications; non-recipient revenue; overestimation of expenditure and many more. When is this the case, can we trust the state accounts? Or is the State's accounting another structural problem?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u185	Good question!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u186	Among other omissions, many more highlight one: public debt, the total debt stock of services and autonomous funds, which is 30 billion in nominal value on 31 December 2020, do not appear in the General State Account. In contrast, the IGCP ( Treasury Management Agency and Public Debt ) reiterated that it shared the Court's view that it would be useful to present the consolidated debt of the State in the General Account. It's obvious, isn't it? However, it does not have updated information to enable it to assess this balance in full and on a consolidated basis. This is serious! The lack of data culture and the provision of information is something we have talked about to exhaustion. Money is taxpayers and deserves more, much more transparency, much more rigour, much more reliability. The debate on the General State Account would deserve more time and scrutiny. We should have more debate here on realisation and less on propaganda and on plans. We should have less rhetoric and more scrutiny. In conclusion, Mr President, a government with an absolute majority is much expected, but a government with more tax revenues, with the greatest amount of funds of all time, is expected much, much more. One cannot expect much is a government that has no ambition or will of management. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u187	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u188	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: The General Account of the State of 2020 insists on several points that are not new to anyone. There is an excess of centralized appropriations in the Ministry of Finance, i.e. there is too much power in the Minister of Finance which then puts and disposes as well. There are almost EUR 3 billion in the hands and direct control of the Ministry of Finance. The use of these centralized appropriations increased from 73 % in 2019 to 57 % in 2020 as if there were no pandemics as if there was no extraordinary need to make extraordinary expenditure. There is a chronic subordination of essential areas. What does this mean? It means that education does not have the budget it needs to hire staff and, when it comes to the end of the year, it will seek money from the centralized funding of the Ministry of Finance. This has only one name: poor budget management. It happens in education, as it happens in health and is one of the causes of the problems of public services today, as is the lack of autonomy of the SNS — and this is present in the General State Account. The SNS has no autonomy to manage its accounts, has no autonomy of hiring and this lack of autonomy, this dependence of the Ministry of Finance, which in everything commands and that everything centralizes, is conditioning its operation, as we see. We are also told by the General Account of the State of the lack of implementation of social security and protection measures. On most of them, as important as the protection of homeless people, of the solidarity complement for the elderly, there is no information on the implementation, i.e. the government has not even submitted that information. But there is one, in particular, on whose execution it has information. I do not know whether Mr. Secretary of State remembers the Statute of the Informal Caregiver. It was a measure that agreed with the Left Block for the 2020 Budget and which entered again into the 2021 Budget. Do you know what that measure was budgeting? EUR 30 million. Do you know what the execution of this measure was? 0, EUR 3 million — 99 % of the measure we agreed was to be implemented in 2020, was to be implemented in 2021 and continues to be implemented in 2022. This tells us a lot about the government's ability and will to implement essential measures. In addition to the lack of information, there is an expense that remained above the expected and I think that the Secretary of State knows which one is: that of the New Bank. The government had planned a sum of 600 million, it had finally injected 1035 million. It is such an injection that it was not public money, but that the Court of Auditors says it is public money, that it is such a contract that the Government said it was protecting the public interest and that the Court of Auditors is now saying that it does not protect the public interest. Finally, the advantage of discussing these issues in the light of two years is that we can look at the past with new data, new statements and new confirmations, too. Mr. Secretary of State, I have a final question. SIFIDE (The Tax Incentives System in Research and Business Development) is the largest tax benefit given to companies. This is a benefit that raises huge doubts because we think it is being misused and in which there are abuses. Between 2018 and 2020, this tax benefit increased by 180 %, 300 million euros. Mr. Secretary of State has decreed an investigation into this, I would like to know what the conclusions are. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u189	For an intervention, Mr Sérgio Ávila of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u190	Mr President-in-Office, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: We are debating today the General State Account of 2020. That was a truly exceptional and extraordinary year. The State has never been so relevant and important in the lives of all. Even those who have always devalued, demeanored and sought to reduce the state was the State that resorted and demanded a robust and strong response that liberal markets obviously could not give. What happened in 2020 is not a matter of the past, but it is, above all, a teaching for our future, which must always be remembered every time they propose to withdraw from the State the resources they required when needed. The year 2020 was also synonymous with courage, determination and resilience. It was the year that everything changed. It demanded an exceptional decision-making capacity, in view of the unknown reality, an enormous courage to face permanent uncertainty, a huge determination to make, at every moment, the best decisions to reconcile public health with the income of families and the installed productive capacity. He called on all to reinvent themselves before the unknown and to wait and be better, more capable and more competent in the face of adversity. But it also required a strong, determined, courageous and innovative government at the most different levels of decision-making and at the different levels of public administration. It demanded the State to be more robust than ever to give an answer, that no State was prepared to give in health, education, social protection, job maintenance, protection of the productive structure. It also called on businesses and workers to adapt and develop new skills. More than numbers, percentages and statistics, this General State Account represents the effort, courage and determination of millions of Portuguese who, in all parts of our territory, have fought and fought so that today it can be said that we can overcome this challenge.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u191	Only music is missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u192	For these results, the strategy and priorities defined by the government were also decisive. It was a strategy that defined as an absolute priority the implementation of measures necessary to combat COVID-19, requiring a profound change in life in society and the adjustment of the organization and functioning of the Public Administration. It also ensured the implementation of additional measures to mitigate its effects, including the protection of the income of families, employment and installed productive structure. in a second phase, created the conditions for incentives for the gradual normalization and recovery of economic activity. The debate of the General State Account is therefore the time to evaluate the results of this strategy. We managed to maintain employment, keeping the unemployment rate stable at only 6, 8 %, much lower, until what was foreseen in the Supplementary Budget — minus 2, 8 percentage points. For this purpose, much contributed to the maintenance of the national production structure which, despite having recorded the greatest ever breakdown of GDP, ensured that this breakdown was lower than that found in countries such as Spain, Italy and Greece, countries where the tourism sector also has a great deal of weight in gross domestic product. But essentially it has ensured a robust recovery that allows us today to have a higher economic growth than the European Union average, already exceeding the levels of production and creation of wealth recorded before the pandemic. We have achieved that a pandemic crisis has not turned into a social and economic crisis, successfully overcoming this challenge. However, the implementation of this plan entailed a huge financial effort, as mentioned in the General State Account, with an increase of EUR 6225 million in public expenditure and a reduction of EUR 4250 million in revenue compared to the previous year only in the framework of central administration and social security. However, it was possible to achieve the objectives defined with a deficit of EUR 2365 million lower than expected in the Supplementary Budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is to say, we have managed to maintain employment, avoid a social crisis and ensure the conditions for the country to grow, above the European average, with less than EUR 2365 million of public debt to pay in the future than in the Supplementary Budget, approved in this House. This was achieved by increasing public investment, reducing debt charges, reducing late payments and even reducing charges with public-private partnerships ( PPP ). Some will criticize, saying that it should have been spent more, than other countries have even spent more. But if we achieve better results than expected, spending less than expected, we can reach a conclusion: the measures taken were more effective, more assertive and had better results than initially envisaged in the Supplementary Budget approved in this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u193	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u194	I conclude, Mr. President. Interestingly, those who criticize are the same who would then criticise the increase in public expenditure resulting from this increase in budgetary effort. In conclusion, the General Account of the State of 2020, much more than numbers, statistics or percentages, represented in essence the quantification of the effort and struggle of a people, represented the resistance, courage and determination of all those who joined together to, with heroism, have made our future possible. This tribute is not the five minutes we have, but we wish this debate to be the evocation and recognition of the efforts of millions of Portuguese who have carried out the actions in it quantified, because it is their merit that we have overcome this enormous challenge. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u195	You will now use the word, by the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u196	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State : in this debate on the General Account of the State of 2020, I leave a first word to remind — or, as the case may be, to inform — that the State Budget for 2020 abstained from the CFP and that the Supplementary Budget for that same year had the vote against the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u197	Exactly! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u198	The year 2020 has been and will be remembered as the year in which the epidemic of COVID-19 and all the economic consequences...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u199	Sir, allow me to interrupt you. I call on the House, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, some silence, so we can hear our colleague.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u200	It's not enough here, but you have to behave in it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u201	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u202	Thank you very much, Mr President. I said that the year 2020 has been and will be remembered as the year in which the epidemic of COVID-19 and all the economic and social consequences resulting there have fallen on the peoples, in this case on the Portuguese people. If, before the so-called pandemic crisis, the CFP warned of the limited and insufficient nature of the responses that the State budget for 2020 pointed to the country, then, with the Supplementary Budget in that same year, the lack of response and investment in the emergency in which the country was placed — emergency for public health and for the National Health Service, emergency for workers and for productive sectors, emergency for micro and small businesses, for public services, which so much lack people. This General State Account, even with the flagrant lack of information that once again, and chronically, suffers—as pointed out by the Court of Auditors and UTAO (Technical Budget Support Unit)— testifies that life has been responsible for giving reason to the CFP. The Government, the PS and the PSD have failed to disregard the warnings and proposals of the CFP for a truly substantial strengthening of the investment that would ensure urgent responses to the country's problems, aggravated by the pandemic crisis. The result was what you saw. That was what was seen with the shortcomings and with the distress picture in which the SNS was placed. This is what was seen with the support of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which remained in advertisements and propaganda and were at the risk of concrete action. It was confirmed that, by far, the main measure adopted by the Government for the economy, the simplified Layoff, had more money than the capacity-building of the SNS, served to finance most of the large companies and a minimal, residual part of the micro, small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u203	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u204	On the other hand, the workers in these situations and at this initial stage did not get rid of cuts in wages, with the PCP, at the time, expressing their opposition to these options. This General State Account is in sight, and we note, as the Economic and Social Council, the Court of Auditors, UTAO, a profound and unacceptable deviation between the announced and planned measures and the concrete budgetary implementation. In this context, however, there has been a continued increase in seriousness — the chronic problems that we have come to note and that are there again: the low execution of public investment which is budgeted and then not in the field; the lack of control and failure to comply with the law in the monitoring of PPPs, again observed by the Court of Auditors; the lack of control and transparency, with the under-evaluation of hundreds of tax benefits, most of those in force; or the lack of substantial information in the government report, of which is the example of the cancellation by 75 % of the state's real estate alienations.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u205	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u206	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, it is evidence that Budgets translate political options, but that is no less true of their implementation. What answers and solutions do we guarantee for problems? What interests do we defend and protect, and what interests do we face? What this brief and late debate allows us to conclude is that the government's political options have not fully responded to or prevented the situation from getting worse and therefore we cannot follow them. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u207	You will now use the word, by the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u208	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : The General Account of the State of 2020 is inevitably marked by the pandemic context. This was a year in which public policies were focused on responding to the health crisis, the economic crisis and the social crisis. Debating the General Account of the State of 2020 implies therefore discussing the options of the Government and the result of them in the emergency framework then experienced. Mr Sérgio Ávila, no one denies the budgetary effort spent, but there is no doubt that this effort was manifestly insufficient. At the social level, the rate of risk of poverty after social transfers rose to 18, 4 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u209	But were you expecting me to come down? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u210	In 2020, more 228 000 people fell into poverty. Also in 2020, the indicator of poverty intensity worsened, which means that the poorest were even poorer, increasing, equally and substantially, inequality, with the 20 % richer than they had 5, 7 times higher than the poorest population. All of this in a year in which the tax burden has always been the highest, reaching 34, 8 % of GDP, with a rise of 0, 3 percentage points, representing a value above the average of all OECD countries. And everything also in a year when the tax burden on labour income rose for the second consecutive year, in contrast with the vast majority of OECD countries which, in response to the pandemic, reduced taxes and social security contributions on labour costs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u211	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u212	In the health plan, with the concentration of health system activity in response to the pandemic, with the secondaryization of many therapies, with the postponement of consultations and treatments, thousands — thousands! — Portuguese were even more exposed, in a period marked by an increase in mortality, only partly explained by the new virus. Of course, it was a bit around the world, but it is worth noting that, despite the effort and delivery which has since been denied by the professionals of the National Health Service, a study by the Eurofound ( European Foundation for the Investment of Living and Working Conditions) says that, from the beginning of the pandemic until March 2021, 34 % of non-COVID medical acts were cancelled when, in OECD, this average was 22 % — worse than Portugal, even Hungary. At the economic level, we were among the countries with the greatest economic destruction. In 2020, GDP per capita expressed in purchasing power parity was 76, 4 % of the European average. In other words, a drop of two percentage points compared to 2019 is synonymous with our relative impoverishment. Also in 2020, according to the National Institute of Statistics, we have had the biggest economic downturn since 1995, with GDP going back 8, 4 %, representing the fourth largest fall of the European Union, data confirmed by Eurostat. This is not inseparable from the fact that the Portuguese budgetary effort has fallen below the European Union average and has been, in accordance with the European Central Bank, 3. the country among the Member States with fewer budgetary stimuli has spent on combating the pandemic. I repeat: we were 3. the country among the Member States with fewer budgetary stimuli has spent on combating the pandemic. [[PSD applause.]] Yes, we could have made a greater budgetary effort to combat the pandemic. Yes, we've had conditions for so much. On the one hand, we had a higher tax and contribution revenue of EUR 1, EUR 85 billion compared to forecast, and on the other hand, an inexecution of EUR 1100 million of expenditure authorized in the Supplementary Budget, I repeat, EUR 1100 million of expenditure authorised in the Supplementary Budget. There was a monumental under-execution, particularly evident in a year when all efforts were required and in which EUR 504 million relate to public investment not made, placing Portugal, Mr Sérgio Ávila, in the euro area queue, with public investment worth 2, 2 % of GDP against 3, 1 % of the average of the single currency countries below, Mr Deputies, of the 2, 4 % of GDP reached in 2015 in the PSD Government / CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u213	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u214	I will finish, Mr. President. The government and the PS were radiant with their performance and even boasted of the deficit being 0, 6 % below the budgeted, a value obtained at the cost of a maximum tax burden and the reduction of the authorized expenditure. [[PSD applause.]] The result of the government's options is crystal clear: an uncertain impact on Portuguese health, a certified impoverishment and a captive place among the Member States of the European Union who will later recover pre-pandamia levels. Congratulations, Prime Minister, congratulations to the Socialist Party! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u215	For an intervention on behalf of the Free Party, Mr Rui Tavares has now given the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u216	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr Minister, Mr Caras e Caros Collegas : It is natural that a debate on the General Account of the State concentrates on what is liquid and usable, on revenue and expenditure, on what has been budgeted and on what has been executed. But I would like to bring to this debate, as soon as I have available, something which is generally a gap noted in the General State Account by the Court of Auditors and which has a different nature within the framework of the State heritage. It has to do with the state real estate and the lack that makes us have a general inventory of the state real estate to have a correct, reliable, total and comprehensive perception of the State General Account, but also for another reason that is related to the crisis we are experiencing. Crisis moments, like this, are times when we need to make new use of old buildings. The very building in which we are, Parliament, in times, had a time of crisis and revolution, other uses, in case, religious uses. The country is full of heritage that is all of us: quarters, virtually disabled, civil hospitals or former civil hospitals, which no longer have this use, old courts, prisons in city centers that could have much better use, within the framework of the judicial system.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u217	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u218	But we're not taking advantage of this heritage, to a large extent, because we don't know it. The question is: when will this heritage be fully integrated into the General State Account?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u219	We shall move on to the conclusion of this item on the agenda, concerning the debate on the General State Account, giving the floor to the Government, in the person of Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, Antonio Mendonça Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u220	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I want to say, with democratic humility, that, after listening to the opposing sides in this debate, it seems clear to me that they have the gap between the reality of the country and the reality that they bring here to the plenary. The gentlemen. Members come to this debate as if nothing had happened since 2020, as if the Portuguese had given reason to everything you say today and that is nothing different than what they said in 2020. But let's go, maybe, partly. Mrs Carla Castro spoke about many problems in the General State Account. I did not want to identify them and then tried to divert the debate to an alleged lack of transparency in the General State Account. [[Protests by IL Member João Cotrim Figueiredo.]] I would just like to tell the honourable Member that she could also have been in favour of highlighting what the Court of Auditors itself says, that is to say, since 2015, that this Government has received more than 57% of the recommendations that the Court of Auditors itself makes every year to the General Account of the State. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[IL rice.]] I therefore sincerely believe that the honourable Member could also have made that clear, because we will always be available to ensure that the General State Account can have the best possible information. I have doubts that the Liberal Initiative would like to use these same data, because I know why you didn't want to go to the bottom of the matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u221	I didn't want to know what was coming!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u222	Because the response Portugal gave to the pandemic was a correct response, both from the health and from the economic and social point of view, and this is reflected in all indicators. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I know that the right enjoys a great deal of rankings and that he likes to quote them regarding the percentage of Portugal's GDP in terms of aid to COVID-19. It only does not say the final part, which is the most relevant and which is that Portugal will grow 4, 3 %, according to the European Commission and the Banco de Portugal, between 2020 and 2023, and that the unemployment rate is 5, 4 %. Madam Member, what is the measure of the success of the budget policy different from those indicators that I am giving you? What ranking can counteract the success these indicators show from the point of view of economic and budgetary policy? There is no ranking that destroys that same success. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Mariana Mortágua raised the issue of centralized appropriations from the Ministry of Finance and less implementation of budget appropriations in 2020. I believe that you cannot turn your conclusion away from the fact that by 2020, in addition to the State budget, which entered into force on 1 January, I believe that until 1 March, there was also an additional budget. It is therefore normal that, having had an Supplementary Budget, it was not necessary to use both the centralized appropriations in percentage terms. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you have never lacked support for both the expenditure we had to make in the fight against the pandemic, in the health front, both from an economic and social point of view.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u223	Moral support may have been!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u224	Although we had a breakdown of revenue of EUR 6 billion, 5, 7 billion of direct support for the fight against the pandemic were channelled. I would also like to point out, Mr Bruno Dias, that Mr Devalues — and, of course, you will have the right to devalue — the support of the simplified layoff.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u225	I don't underestimate! Need to know which companies it has been given to!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u226	Mr President, the support of the simplified layoff was not a support for companies, it was a support for the country's productive capacity, which allowed the unemployment rate not to reach the levels that we all feared. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member, with his speech, is not defending workers. With your intervention, you are suggesting that we should not have taken this measure, but, Mr President, I assure you, if we had not taken this measure, that would have been harmful to the workers. I know that the honourable Member, at the bottom, is well aware of this.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u227	Don't worry about my conscience!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u228	Ladies and gentlemen. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, that time is already running out, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, I would also like to say that « Rome and Pavia have not been made one day». The Statute of the Informal Caregiver, which was approved with the agreement of the Left Block, is now allocated to more than 800 people.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u229	I was budgeted three years ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u230	I think that Mrs Deputies, rather than coming here to take this for granted, should really value a matter in which she had direct intervention and that this is a good step forward for the country. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the discussion of the General Account of the State of 2020 ends a difficult year, but a year in which the country was able to overcome its workers, its businesses, its professionals. Therefore, we are proud to present this General State Account. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u231	So we close point four of our agenda and move on to point five, in which we jointly appreciate Resolution Projects Nos 169 / XV / 1. a ( Committee on European Affairs) — Opinion on COM / 2022 / 0245 - Proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the recovery and loss of property, and COM / 2022 / 0247 - Proposal for a Council Decision on the addition of the violation of Union restrictive measures in the areas of crime provided for in Article 83. the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, paragraph 1, and 170 / XV / 1. a ( Committee on European Affairs ) — Legislative resolution of the European Parliament on the election of Members to the European Parliament of 3 May 2022. To speak, you have the floor of Mrs Susana Correia of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u232	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This draft resolution sets out two proposals by the European Parliament and the Council which have established a common basic standard for criminal offences and sanctions throughout the European Union. In order to safeguard the values of the European Union enshrined in the Treaty, including the maintenance of international peace and security, particularly important in the context we are currently living, the European Union has introduced a series of restrictive measures. The aim is to strengthen coordination at European Union level in the implementation of these restrictive measures. Strengthened rules on the recovery and confiscation of property are aimed at enabling the property of persons and entities in breach of restrictive measures to be effectively confiscated. The proposal aims to add the violation of restrictive measures to the list of crimes already envisaged in the treaty, enabling the investigation, criminal action and repression of infringements of restrictive measures in all Member States and the strengthening of police and judicial cooperation. It proposes the updating and unification of the existing legal framework in order to facilitate and ensure effective efforts in the recovery and loss of property in criminal matters throughout the Union. These objectives can be achieved more efficiently at Union level in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, contributing to the achievement of priorities, such as ensuring a safety union for all European citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u233	Mr Inês de Sousa Real has now the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u234	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to the subject under discussion, I would like to note that the NAP will not follow draft resolution No 170 / XV / 1. to vote against the European Parliament's proposal not only on a single European list but also on the direct election of the President of the European Commission as well as on the establishment of the minimum age of 16 years for voting. As the NAP has been defending, we must in fact promote reconciliation measures that bring young people closer to public and political life, in particular by combating abstention and, to this extent, this position of the European Parliament will call into question a desire and a duty of all of us, in essence, to promote the political participation of young people. On the other hand, as regards the direct election of the President of the European Commission, we believe that this is a tool not only for strengthening its political legitimacy but also for re-approaching of the various bodies and of those who are in charge of the European Union's destinations, further reinforcing the citizen representation within the European area. Finally, with regard to transnational lists, in the view of the NAP, these are important because they also mean more steps towards European citizenship, so we cannot follow this draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u235	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr Bernardo Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u236	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Liberal Initiative is in favour of the European Union, it is in favour of a union of countries, but it is not in favour of a federation of countries. We will therefore support this text of the Committee on European Affairs ( CAE ) which rejects the legislative resolution of the European Parliament. in this resolution, it is intended — in my view, without great respect for the diversity and even the electoral tradition of each country and the different levels of debate on each subject in it — that the European Union should define for all countries the age of vote, the day of vote, the models of vote, the rules for drawing up electoral papers, for drawing up lists and selecting candidates, the campaign rules and also creating a European electoral authority. That is why, in our view, all of this goes against the principle of subsidiarity. Some of the things that are here are even going against our Constitution—as it is said, and well, in the opinion of 1. The Commission, therefore, will obviously not be able to support the legislative resolution of the European Parliament and support the text of the Committee on European Affairs. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u237	To speak on behalf of the PCP, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u238	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : On the projects under discussion by the CFP, I wanted to leave some comments. We understand that this set of initiatives, which are a target of appreciation in these draft EAC resolutions, violates constitutional principles, of course, the principle of subsidiarity. Being different from the resolutions presented, our sense of vote will also be different.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u239	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u240	As regards the project on recovery and loss of property and the addition of the violation of restrictive measures by the Union in the areas of crime, we believe that the Portuguese Government should have an unfavourable position. We believe that the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are violated and that there is clear interference in the sovereignty of the Member States, in particular in the definition and typification of crimes and in the creation of their sanctions, the absolute competence of this Parliament, of course, in the case of Portugal. Criminal law is — and must continue to be — a matter of the competence of the Portuguese State and of each of the Member States which guarantees important rights, guarantees and safeguards. in this field, as in others, it is up to the Portuguese State to define and implement preventive policies and to combat crime, but also to typification of crime and associated criminal framework. We also understand that the typification of crimes made in the proposal submitted by the structures of the European Union is inadequate and unnecessary in view of the anticipated international law and the scope of the United Nations. For these reasons, we will vote against this draft resolution. With regard to the other initiative, which concerns the election of Members of the European Parliament, it is important to say that we agree with the opinions presented both in 1. like in 4. the Commission, as well as the adverse judgment and the recommendation to the government of unfavourable vote. on the part of the CFP, we reject the creation of a common electoral circle and transnational lists for the elections to the European Parliament, which, in addition to accentuate existing imbalances and distortions, would represent an artificial creation that does not correspond to reality in Europe or the interests of peoples and would contribute to a greater distance between voters and electors, which in turn would separate us from a project of cooperation between sovereign states and equal rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u241	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u242	The creation of better conditions for a more genuine expression of the will of each people and of the plurality of representation of each Member State must be achieved through a redistribution of the number of mandates per Member State in the European Parliament, compensating those who, in relative terms, lost more mandates in the context of successive enlargement processes and who were most adversely affected by the unbalanced distribution of mandates set by the Treaty of Lisbon. In view of what is also proposed on this initiative, we will follow this draft resolution precisely because it recommends that the Portuguese Government have an unfavourable position with regard to these proposals from the European Union. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u243	For an intervention on behalf of the Free Party, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u244	Mr President : This debate on European issues is a good example of some of the misconceptions that are generated in our country about the European Union. We are discussing the confiscation of goods from criminal activities — and these criminal activities are often transnational — of course there is European legislation on this issue in order to be able to confiscate, in Portugal, goods that have been obtained by criminal activities of the Mafia or Camorra — and at the same time transnational lists, about which we have heard of an extraordinary thing here. We can agree or disagree with transnational lists. In the Free House we agree, because we want to elect the European Commission through European elections. I do not know why other parties — most of whom, for example, have European party funds — do not want there to be an ballot at the time of the vote for national and other parties for European parties, so that one knows who it is for European Socialists, who it is for the PPE (European People's Party) and so on. But the extraordinary thing that was said was this: 'It cannot be, because it violates the principle of subsidiarity'. I was here a month ago in a debate where legislation on national elections violated the principle of subsidiarity and said: "No, it cannot be about national elections. Legislation on the European Parliament. Legislation on the European Parliament now appears and also violates the principle of subsidiarity. Understand us! Either we want to build a European democracy or we don't want to. There are those who don't want to, and everything's fine. But there are those who call themselves Europeanists and do not want to build a European democracy, which is completely incomprehensible. Therefore, the Free will not follow this opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u245	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rosário Gambôa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u246	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The legislative resolution of the European Parliament of 3 May 2022, to be considered and referred to in the draft resolution under discussion, presents a new proposal for a Council regulation on the election of Members of the European Parliament by direct and universal suffrage, thus repealing an equivalent decision which has been in force since 1976, with successive amendments. The main objective of the resolution is to strengthen the link between voters and candidates as well as citizens'confidence in democracy and to enhance the role of the European Parliament in the institutional framework of the Union. in this sense, the initiative presents a broad and substantive set of electoral provisions to be harmonized between Member States, provisions such as age of vote, date of elections, electoral books, electoral circles, etc. However, some of these proposals raise deep doubts about the adequacy and need for harmonised and centralised intervention by the European Union in these matters. In fact, the initiative goes far beyond the matters covered by the current regulatory framework and some of the measures invade in different areas the policy area of national electoral law, in a clear way exceeding the desirable at the level of Union intervention. They thus affect principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, which are teachers of the construction of the Union and which Article 5. that of the Treaty on Union. This is particularly evident in the option of establishing cross-border electoral lists at the Union level by means of a double vote. Despite the continuing declaration of respect for the Treaties, the proposal introduces a serious set of risks of violating the provisions of the Treaties relating to the composition and election of the European Parliament. The stratification of the Member States in three stages, depending on the population, is an artificial mechanism — as has already been mentioned — which can compromise the proportional distribution of mandates and the weight of each Member State in parliamentary representation, opening doors to the risk of increasing the electoral presence of the larger countries as opposed to the decrease in the presence of the smaller ones. In addition, several of these measures would entail serious problems of practical enforceability with consequences contrary to the intended, i.e. with consequences for the loss of efficiency and participation in the electoral act. Concluding, contrary to the express motivations, the proposed formula for transnational lists, the deviations identified in the principles of subsidiarity, proportionality and necessity and the inconformity of many regulatory solutions with national legislation and electoral practice do not guarantee the fulfilment of the stated objectives of deepening democracy, before they can threaten them. in this sense, in Parliamentary committee, the Socialist Party supported the motion for a resolution under consideration, indicating to the Government of the Portuguese Republic the proposal for an unfavourable vote for the purpose of submitting the matter to the Council. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u247	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Sérgio Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u248	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What assessment of the review of European legislation governing the election of the European Parliament? To make it clear, from now on, that this review is not prudent, it is unwise, it is not timely, and it reflects an inconsequential and counterproductive federalist impulse which we have repeatedly found in some European initiatives. Europe is not made through voluntary impulses, however well- meaning they are. Europe is not doing itself through giant « federalizing » steps, especially when the need and adequacy of the proposed measures are not undermined. Yes, sometimes the drastic changes and serious crises we are facing require bold steps from Europe and it has known how to give them, with greater or less difficulty, but this is not at all the present case. It should be noted that if all the measures contained in the legislative resolution of the European Parliament were adopted, the degree of harmonisation or, rather, the degree of uniformisation of European electoral legislation would be greater than in the corresponding legislation of the American Federation. This is not, however, realistic and expresses the absurd method of starting the construction of the house by the roof, of putting the carriage in front of the woods. It has no justification to make a picture of the diversity of cultures and constitutional, electoral and political traditions that have long been established. Reform of European electoral law requires strict respect for the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, which in the present situation are grossly violated. These principles imply a minimum normative denominator that is common to all and the utmost respect for the diversity of the laws and democratic electoral practices of each Member State. At European level, it must compete only with the establishment of basic electoral rules, while for each Member State it must be free to define electoral standards, in line with their practices and their legal culture. In fact, the question is: what does it mean to regulate questions at supranational level where there is a great differentiation of solutions in national terms? Why a single day for the election? Why the same duration of election campaigns, the same date for listing presentation, the same rules for updating and correcting electoral books and the same minimum age for voting? Why uniform rules for voting online or for voting by correspondence? Why regulate the internal life of the parties, in particular the way each party sets out to select its candidates? A very extensive regulation of the electoral regulations established by the European level, as proposed, may even have a perverse and contrary effect. Instead of deepening European democracy, greater trust and participation of citizens in the electoral process, everything can go against it, even endangering the democratic legitimacy of the elections. It is therefore good for the Assembly of the Republic to express an unfavourable judgment on the general content of the European Parliament's legislative resolution and to recommend to the Government the vote against, when it has to take part in the Council's decision on this matter. This European initiative demonstrates the need for us to maintain our greatest commitment to monitoring the application of subsidiarity. It is a crucial principle of European construction. It is the principle that enables me to be comfortable, at the same time, in my democratic, Europeanist, patriotic and regional autonomy conditions, because subsidiarity is the key to a rational and balanced division of power. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We are much different from the other two European legislative initiatives which are the subject of the other motion for a resolution. To improve and complement the legal instruments available to the European Union to combat organised crime is an important objective. The same is true of measures to strengthen judicial and police cooperation. Give more strength to the restrictive measures established by the European Union and add to the list of crimes of the Union its violation makes sense, particularly in the context of the horrific Russian invasion of Ukraine. The need to adapt these measures seems to us to offer no doubt. Here, yes, we're on the right path. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u249	I ask the House for the conditions for the speaker to intervene, I give the floor to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u250	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Whenever we discuss these European matters, it is almost thrilling to hear Mr Rui Tavares. More it seems like a child who, with his ingenuity, in front of a large box of goloseimas, will be happy to see what is the most colorful and grasping in them in a torn and satisfied way, even if a little girl at the bottom can tell you « do not accept sweets of strangers, can bring problems». [[L. Protests.]] Even if that voice is repeated, you don't want to know! This is what happens in this case, in which strangers have no good intentions. Even the federalists, at least democratic, would be suspicious of proposals that distort representivity between States at all and tell the Portuguese people that, in future representations of the European Parliament, those in whom they would vote and represent them in this Parliament could be worth less, in number of votes, than what the Portuguese population represents at European level. Well, we won't be fooled. We do not allow ourselves to be deceived by this loss of representativeness, which in itself is an attack on democracy, nor in the way the European Commission and the European bodies want to meddle in the way we organize ourselves, whether in the parties, in the electoral campaigns or in the way we make politics in our country. We therefore unequivocally follow the opinion of the Committee on European Affairs, which says the obvious: the scope of action of the European bodies is exacerbated and this violates the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. And this is not about hiding what European families the parties belong to, because each party goes to elections with this absolutely transparent information. It is only to say that the European Union is a sum of States and that the Portuguese people have the right to represent and organize their expression in the European Parliament. There's a second opinion we disagreed with. Accompanying a set of criteria that have been listed here—and I am going directly to the simplest, who are those in which there is unanimity—I ask: if the Italian Mafia has interests in Portugal, they must be arrested after an investigation in Italy? Unmistakably, the answer is "yes". [[L. Protests.]] But do we ensure that, in all European States, the safeguarding of rights and criminal law is done in the same way? I should like to remind you, first of all, of Hungary and, for example, of the fact that an opponent of the Hungarian regime cannot see his interests — perhaps his house of escape from the Hungarian regime in Portugal — arrested by a decision of the Hungarian courts? From that point of view, it is this door that is opened with this claim. Therefore, even if we realize that there are some aspects that could be improved, we believe that there are doors that we cannot accept that open because, with this acceptance, we would call into question the fundamental rights of European citizens. We will therefore vote against this opinion and in favour of the deliberations of the EAC to reject, inter alia, the idea of such plurinational lists. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u251	Mr Rui Tavares asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u252	Mr President, it is to make an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u253	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u254	I would like to ask the Bureau to distribute to the House the report of the European Parliament with the financing of European political parties to national parties, i.e. to those — who have spoken here — that they receive European money to finance propaganda and posters of these parties, but do not want the Portuguese electorate to know, through the ballot, that these pan-European parties, in which they are named, exist and that they are the ones which are presented to the elections in the European context. So I find it strange that someone who says "do not accept foreign gifts" accepts funding from European parties and does not like revealing to the Portuguese citizen.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u255	Since you and I do not like to spend paper without need, I would ask you to indicate to the Bureau the electronic access and we will be very pleased to distribute it to the plenary. However, I ask the services that open the quorum verification register. I now call on Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u256	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, you have entered the Bureau, and you have been admitted, the Draft of Deliberation No 6 / XV / 1. a ( PAR) — Use of the European Union flag in the Assembly of the Republic, including the ballot script which has been distributed to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u257	As agreed at the Conference of Leaders, agenda items 6 and 7 concerning motion for a resolution No 1 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement on the cessation of the validity of bilateral investment treaties between the Member States of the European Union, signed in Brussels on 5 May 2020, and draft resolution No 176 / XV / 1. a ( CAE ) — Adoption by the Assembly of the European elections initiatives considered as a priority under the European Commission's 2022 work programme do not have time for evaluation, moving directly to the voting stage. [[Pause.]] I ask the services to close the quorum verification system and advertise the result. [[Pause.]] There are 214 Members present, so we have quorum. I wonder if any Member of Parliament or some Member of Parliament has not been able to sign up. [[Pause.]] Mr Matos Fernandes of the Socialist Party failed to register?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u258	Mr. President, I have doubts. I signed up and, in a continuous way, the screen on my computer was completely black. So I don't know if I'm registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u259	The panopticon that exists in the Bureau confirms that the honourable Member is registered, i.e., registered. All of you. Members have been able to sign up, so we will move on to the voting period. The first discussion concerns the Draft Vote No 116 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by PS ) — Regret of the death of Eurico Gonçalves. To proceed to your reading, I give the floor to Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u260	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « The painter, art critic and professor Eurico Gonçalves died last July 10, at 90 years of age and about 70 years of career, having stood out as a precursor of Portuguese surrealism and artistic education in Portugal. His course has a surreal initial phase, gradually giving rise to graphic, abstract, gestureal signs, which are inserted in the domain of the renewal of lyric abstractionism and which configure a personal aesthetic named Dada-Zen, which relates to Dada's vitalism and the spiritual practice of Buddhism. As a plastic artist, he exhibited dozens of times individually, particularly in the Gallery Presence, in Porto, having also participated in several collective exhibitions, highlighting the integration into Portuguese representation in the XVII International Biennial of S. Paulo, in 1983. Eurico Gonçalves' work is represented in the collections of some of the most important Portuguese art institutions, particularly in the Modern Art Centre, the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation, the Chiado Museum, the Culturgest and the Amadeo Museum of Souza-Cardoso, in Amarante, among other institutions. Eurico Gonçalves joined the writing to the painting by publishing several articles on Dadaism, Zen philosophy or writing, but would still pioneer in the context of artistic education in Portugal and specialist in the knowledge of the plastic expression of the child, with several works published in these domains. Scholarship of the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation ( 1967 - 1969 ), in Paris, in 1971, received an Honorable Mention of the Critics of Portuguese Art Prize, in 1998, was awarded to him the Prize of Painting Almada Negreiros and, in 2005, the Grand Prix of the XIII International Biennial of Arts of Vila Nova de Cerveira, species of corollary of its various distinctions. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, pays tribute to the singular and exemplary journey of Eurico Gonçalves, as a plastic artist and pioneer of artistic education, and expresses its grief for his death, presenting to the family and friends the most felt condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u261	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] We moved on to the Vote Project No 117 / XV / 1. a ( presented by PS ) — regretting the death of Luís Ferreira Alves. I ask Mrs Palmira Maciel to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u262	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He died last July 9th, at the age of 84, Luís Ferreira, the largest name of architecture photography, an unmistakable name in the history of Portuguese architecture for the last four decades. Louis Ferreira Alves was born in Valadares, Vila Nova de Gaia, on April 25, 1938, within a democratic family where their social and political ideals were formed. He was an anti-fascist communist activist and opposition to the New State regime, being arrested five times by the PIDE between 1959 and 1974. The cinema was the passion that first emerged. Active member of the Cineclube do Porto, during the 1950s, integrated the team that carried out the Auto documentary of Floripes. This experience had a strong impact on its formation and it is from this other look that the approach to photography is made, with reflections on rigor, perfectionism and rare sensitivity with which it captures the atmospheres of the photographed objects. For the first time in 1982, he exhibited a slide on a work of the architect Pedro Ramalho. It will be during this decade that you will photograph in a unique and insurmountable way several iconic works of Portuguese architecture, such as the House of Moledo, of Álvaro Siza, the House of Arts, of Souto Moura, or the House of Caesar Ferreira, of Gonçalo Byrne. He made the subsequent coverage to the creation of these and other architects, such as Fernando Távora, Viana de Lima, Augustinho Ricca, etc. , contributing decisively to the national and international dissemination of Portuguese architecture and its evolution. He made cultural videos, capturing the theatrical activity of several companies in the city of Porto, such as TEP, TUP or TEAR. Their artistic action has also expanded into dozens of books edited and exhibitions carried out within and outside the country. He was the first photographer to be distinguished as honorary member of the Order of Architects, in 2013. In 2015, he was thanked by the City Hall of Porto with the Municipal Medal of Mérito—Gau Ouro, and, in October 2021, by the Portuguese State with the Medal of Mérito Cultural. Your personal file, with more than 178 000 photographs, was easy, alive, to the House of Architecture, where it will be open to the consultation. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, pays tribute to the singular and exemplary journey of Luís Ferreira Alves as a pioneer of architecture photography and expresses his grief for his death, presenting to his family and friends his deepest condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u263	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] We moved on to the Vote Project No 121 / XV / 1. a ( presented by PSD and CH) — I regret the death of Father Antonio Vaz Pinto. I give the floor to Mr Duarte Pacheco to read it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u264	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « An outstanding man, of rich and multifaceted personality, attentive and always available, Antonio Vaz Pinto, Jesuit priest, full-life keeper, committed and enthusiastic in the field of spirituality and action, died on the last day of July, at the age of 80. Originating from a family originating in Arouca, Father Antonio Vaz Pinto, or 11. the one of 12 brothers was born in Lisbon, in 1942, and entered the Company of Jesus in 1965, in Soutelo. Earlier, he attended the São João de Brito College in Lisbon and later entered the classical University of Lisbon where he attended the law course for four years. He then graduated from Philosophy, Braga, and Theology, Germany, at Frankfurt University. Ordered in 1974, Father António Vaz Pinto was responsible for the creation and implementation of several works of the Society of Jesus with great apostolic impact, among which the Leigos for Development, in 1986, the Center of St. Cyril, in 2002, in Porto, the Centro Universitário Padre Manuel da Nobrega, between 1975 and 1984, in Coimbra, and the Centro Universitário Padre António Vieira, between 1984 and 1997, in Lisbon. He also performed various positions of special responsibility, such as those of director of the Pedro Arrupe Community, in Braga, and rector of the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, in the Povoa of Varzim. He led the Inácio University Centre in Loyola, in Porto, he was a national assistant to the Christian Life Community and president of the directorate of the Social Center of Musgueira, in Lisbon. In 2008 he was appointed director of the magazine Broteria and later, in 2014, director of the Church of São Roque and chaplain of the Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Lisboa. He also worked for several years on Renascença Radio, where he was an assistant between 1984 and 1997, and collaborated with various media agencies. He was also the founder of the producer of religious content Future and was in the initial project of the creation of TVI. Father António Vaz Pinto also highlighted various pastoral and social missions, including the coordination of the High Commissioner for Ethnic Migration and Minorities between 2002 and 2005, and, in a permanent concern for a more just society, helped to create the Food Bank against Hunger and the Legos for Development, a non-governmental organization for Catholic development (NGOD ). He was also the author of seven books on theology, philosophy and Christian life, and of two memories, where he tells the history of his life. In January 2006, he was distinguished by the President of the Republic Jorge Sampaio with the Grand Officer Order Infante D. Henrique. Father Antonio Vaz Pinto stood out in numerous missions and tasks throughout his life. Equipped with a practical sense in which it adapted its doctrinal principles and values to the advancement of society, its influence and its action have enriched the lives of thousands of people, being an inspiring source especially for young people. António Vaz Pinto was a man who recognized and lived the personal encounter with Christ, being faithful to that encounter, and transformed him into a human experience of a life lived in the service of his brother. It was distinguished by its ability to communicate, amplifying and broadening the importance of its message, but at the same time very human and direct, touching the hearts of people. His work marked Portuguese society, because, more than words, Father Antonio Vaz Pinto left work. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its deep regret at the death of Father Antonio Vaz Pinto, conveying to his family and friends and to the company of Jesus the most felt condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u265	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] We will move on to the Vote Project No 122 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by the PAR and subscribed by the PS, the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L ) — To regret the death of Commander Pilot André Serra. I would ask the Secretary of the Lina Lopes Bureau to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u266	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « On July 15th, Commander André Rafael Serra died following the tragic fall of the aircraft flying in the Foz Côa area, during a firefighting mission in Torre de Moncorvo, Bragança district. The death of Pilot André Serra is a cause of deep pain and sadness, not only because it occurs in a public mission to combat the scourge of fires, as for their youth and undeniable courage. At only 38 years of age, André Serra certainly had a lot to give to the country. Natural of Barreiro, André Serra served in the Portuguese Air Force and was considered a dedicated and experienced pilot. With his sudden and premature death, there remains an emptiness that makes everyone sad. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its deep regret over the death of Commander Pilot André Serra, addressing to his family and friends the most sorry condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u267	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] I present to your wife, your mother and other family here the condolences of the Assembly of the Republic. I invite all to associate themselves with one minute of silence in honor of these fellow countrymen. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are now voting on draft resolution No 159 / XV / 1. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to Brazil. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] We now vote on Resolution Project No 160 / XV / 1. a ( PAR) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Argentina. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] Let's vote for Deliberation Project No. 6 / XV / 1. a ( PAR) — Use of the European Union flag in the Assembly of the Republic. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the IL, the PAN and the L, the votes against the CFP and the abstention from BE.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 210 / XV / 1. a (L) — Prevents the acquisition of Portuguese nationality through residence authorisation for investment activity. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and the PSD and with votes in favour of the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We continue with the general vote of Bill No. 211 / XV / 1. a (L) — Strengthening of the procedures for granting residence permits for investment activity. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, PCP and BE were rejected, votes against the NAP and L and the abstention from the IL.]] The general vote of Bill No 212 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (L) — State aid. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] The initiative goes down to 1. the Commission. We shall proceed to the general vote of Bill No 213 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Review the rules of Law No 23 / 2007 of 4 July on the authorisation of residence for the pursuit of professional activity and on criminal conduct of aid to illegal immigration, seizure and use of illegal labour, aggravating their penalties. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] [[Laughing.]] We shall continue, in general, with the vote on the Bill No 21 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 878 on access to banking and prudential supervision and Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 879 on recovery and resolution of credit institutions and investment firms. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS and the NAP, votes against the CFP and BE and abstentions against the PSD, IL and L.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. We shall now proceed to the vote on the General Account of the State of 2020. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against the IL and abstentions against the PSD, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 169 / XV / 1. a ( Committee on European Affairs) — Opinion on COM / 2022 / 0245 - Opinion on COM / 2022 / 0245 - Proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the recovery and loss of property, and COM / 2022 / 0247 - Proposal for a Council Decision on the addition of the violation of Union restrictive measures to the areas of crime provided for in Article 83. paragraph 1 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the IL and the L, against the CFP and the BE and the abstention from the NAP.]] We will now vote for the Resolution Project No 170 / XV / 1. a ( Committee on European Affairs ) — Legislative resolution of the European Parliament on the election of Members to the European Parliament of 3 May 2022. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, IL, PCP and BE, votes against PAN, L and PS MP Porfirio Silva.]] We shall then proceed to the overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 1 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement on the cessation of the implementation of bilateral investment treaties between the Member States of the European Union, signed in Brussels on 5 May 2020. [[When put to the vote, the vote against the NAP and the abstention from BE was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the IL, the PCP and the L.]] We will now vote for the Resolution Project No 176 / XV / 1. a ( Committee on European Affairs) — Adoption by the Assembly of the European initiatives considered as priority for the purpose of scrutiny under the work programme of the European Commission for 2022. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the IL, the PAN and the L, the votes against the CFP and the abstention from BE.]] We shall continue with the vote on draft resolution No 19 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends to the Government the creation of channels for complaints of harassment, discrimination and bullying behaviour in educational establishments and workplaces, the implementation of codes of conduct and training programmes for prevention and combating harassment. We shall vote points on this draft resolution, as required by the PSD Parliamentary Group. Let us begin by voting on point 1 of the motion for a resolution. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the IL.]] The vote on point 2 ( ( e ) shall follow. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and the PSD, votes in favour of the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the IL.]] Let us vote on point 2 and the remaining points. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of the PSD, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the IL.]] We shall vote on point 3. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the IL.]] The vote on point 4 shall follow. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS, the PS and the IL and with votes against the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L.]] Let us now vote on point 5. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PSD were rejected, votes against IL, BE, PAN and L and the PCP abstention.]] The vote on draft resolution No 110 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends that the Government consider the denunciation of the Energy Charter Treaty. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, in favour of the PCP, BE, PAN, L and 8 PS Members (Eduardo Alves, Eunice Pratas, Francisco Dinis, Joana Sá Pereira, Miguel dos Santos Rodrigues, Miguel Matos, Pedro Anastácio and Tiago Soares Monteiro) and the abstention of 4 PS Members (Alexandre Quintanilla, Bruno Aragão, Cláudia Santos and Hugo Oliveira).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u268	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u269	Mr. Francisco César, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u270	Mr President, it is to inform that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u271	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u272	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u273	Please, Mr. Miguel Costa Matos.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u274	Mr President, it is to inform that, on behalf of the eight Members of the Socialist Party who voted in favour of this draft resolution, a statement of vote will be made.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u275	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 141 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Consecration of the eco-crime in the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PCP were rejected in favour of BE, PAN, L and 5 PS Members (Alexandra Leitão, Eunice Pratas, Francisco Dinis, Miguel dos Santos Rodrigues and Miguel Matos) and PSD, IL and PS deputy Isabel Alves Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u276	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u277	Mr. Francisco César, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u278	Mr President, it is to inform the House that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the vote we have just held.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u279	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Miguel Costa Matos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u280	Mr President, it is for the same purpose to inform that the young Socialist Members who voted in favour of this draft resolution will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u281	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 92 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government support the establishment of an international treaty for the oceans and a harmonisation of legislation in terms of protected marine areas. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, IL, BE, PAN and L and the abstention from the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u282	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u283	Please, Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u284	Mr President, it is to announce a statement of vote by the CFP regarding the last vote we have taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u285	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Let us now vote for draft resolution No 147 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government promote an extended debate on the risks of the Energy Charter Treaty and report to it. The proposer has called for a point-to-point vote on the draft, so we will do so. Let us begin by voting on point 1. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, in favour of IL, PCP, BE, PAN, L and 8 PS (Eduardo Alves, Eunice Pratas, Francisco Dinis, Joana Sá Pereira, Miguel dos Santos Rodrigues, Miguel Matos, Pedro Anastácio and Tiago Soares Monteiro) and the abstention of 4 PS (Alexandre Quintanilla, Bruno Aragão, Cláudia Santos and Hugo Oliveira).]] Let us now vote together on the remaining points of the draft resolution. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and IL were rejected, in favour of the PCP, BE, PAN, L and 8 PS (Eduardo Alves, Eunice Pratas, Francisco Dinis, Joana Sá Pereira, Miguel dos Santos Rodrigues, Miguel Matos, Pedro Anastácio and Tiago Soares Monteiro) and the abstention of 4 PS (Alexandre Quintanilla, Bruno Aragão, Cláudia Santos and Hugo Oliveira).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u286	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u287	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u288	Mr President, it is to announce a declaration of vote on this draft and also draft resolution No 110 / XV / 1. a ( L), on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Deputies Alexandre Quintanilha, Bruno Aragon, Cláudia Cruz Santos and Hugo Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u289	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall proceed to the vote...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u290	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u291	Please, Mr. Miguel Costa Matos.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u292	Mr President, it is for the same purpose that the eight Members of the Socialist Youth voted in favour of this draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u293	It is recorded, Mr Deputy, noting a certain change in the categorization. Mr Eurico Brillante Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u294	Mr President, on behalf of the PS bench, we will also present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u295	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Having verified this plurality, we proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 149 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Recommends that the Government reject the proposal for a European Commission regulation establishing a comprehensive monitoring of electronic communications with the Council of the European Union. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the IL, the CFP, the BE and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the NAP.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 33 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PSD ) — ProSolos - Prevention of contamination and soil remedy. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the PS abstention.]] Mrs. Members, this initiative is down to 11. the Commission. Let us now vote on the Resolution Project No 44 / XV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends to the Government the publication of ProSolos legislation, the urgent mapping of contaminated soils and that PRR funds are not used for the deresponsibility and compensation of pollutants. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CFP, BE, PAN and L and abstentions from the PS and IL.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 111 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Recommends the updating and publication of ProSolos legislation — prevention of soil contamination and remedying — and the resumption of the process of the Framework Directive on Soils in the European Union. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and with abstentions from the PS and the IL.]] This initiative is down to 11. the Commission. The general vote on draft resolution No 93 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Increased National Network of Protected Marine Areas and creation of Maritime Hope Spots and ‘No Take Zones’. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PCP and votes against the PSD, the IL, the BE, the PAN, the L and the Member of the PS Luís Graça were rejected.]] We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 144 / XV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends the establishment of marine protected areas and the application of a moratorium to marine mining. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PSD were rejected, votes against the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions against the IL and the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u296	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u297	Please, Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u298	Mr President, I would like to announce, from the CFP, the delivery of explanations of vote on these last two votes that we have made.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u299	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Let us now vote, in general, on draft resolution No 98 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — To dedicate the 25th of May as « National Day of the Gardens » and celebrate the legacy of Gonçalo Ribeiro Telles in the protection of the environment and in the promotion of quality of life. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the IL, the PCP, the PAN and the L and the abstention from BE.]] This draft resolution is down to 11. the Commission. I believe that we can vote together, in general, on Resolution Projects Nos 126 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Establish May 25 as the National Garden Day, and 145 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Consecrate on May 25 as National Garden Day. [[Pause.]] No objection, let's vote. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, PS, IL, PCP, PAN and L and BE abstention.]] These draft resolutions are down to 11. the Commission. Let us now vote for draft resolution No 91 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Safeguard groundwater and protect aquifers. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 106 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Assess the consumption of water resources in the production of green hydrogen and assess its sustainability. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 123 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Encourage the conversion of mills and mills for the production of electricity and the enhancement of cultural heritage. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the PS abstention.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 132 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Awareness campaign for water and energy saving. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] The NAP submitted a request for a point vote on draft resolution No 155 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — formally expresses the opposition of the Assembly of the Republic to the introduction of nuclear energy and natural gas in the list of environmentally sustainable economic activities covered by the taxonomy of the European Union and recommends that the Government ensure that Portugal continues its opposition to this amendment, assessing in particular the possibility of appeal to the Court of Justice of the European Union. So we started by voting on point 1 of this motion for a resolution. [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, BE, PAN and L and against IL.]] We shall vote on point 2. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PAN and the L, votes against the IL and abstentions of the PSD and the CFP.]] Let us now vote on point 3 of the draft resolution. [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, BE, PAN and L and against IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u300	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u301	Please, Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u302	Mr President, I would like to announce that we will present a statement of vote on the vote we have just made.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u303	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Economics, Public Works, Planning and Housing on draft resolutions Nos 57 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Requalification of CI8, 70 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Urgent requalification of IC8, 77 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of requalification measures for CI8, 83 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Urgent requalification of IC8 and 86 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government urgently implement the portion of the CI8 between Pombal and Avelar ( Ansion ), including defrosting accesses, and undertakes the cabimentation of the necessary financial resources. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] Let us now proceed to the final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bills Nos 179/15/1. a (IL) — Protects freedom of expression online and 180 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Simplifies the regime of protection against misinformation by ensuring its articulation with the European Plan of Action against Disinformation, making the first amendment to Law No 27 / 2021 of 17 May, which approves the Portuguese Charter of Human Rights in the Digital Age. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PSD, BE and PAN and against IL, PCP and L.]] The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on draft resolution No 14 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government carry out an annual update of the legal protection fee table in accordance with Article 36. , paragraphs 2 and 3 of Law No 34 / 2004 of 29 July 2004. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the IL and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u304	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u305	Please, Mr. Miguel Costa Matos.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u306	Mr President, on the vote on the last final text, I would like to announce the delivery of a statement of vote on my behalf and on behalf of the honourable Members. Deputies Eduardo Alves, Eunice Pratas, Francisco Dinis, Joana Sá Pereira, Miguel Rodrigues, Pedro Anastácio and Tiago Soares Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u307	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Who doesn't accept categorizations, hears the exhaustive list... [[Laughing.]] We turn to the general vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Economics, Public Works, Planning and Housing on the Proposal for a Law No 6 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Electronic Communications Act and transposes Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 1972, establishing the European Electronic Communications Code. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PSD and the NAP, votes against the CFP and IL, BE and L abstentions.]] With regard to this same replacement text, it is important to vote on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes carried out in the special session of the Commission. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the IL.]] We shall now proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the said replacement text submitted by the Committee on Economics, Public Works, Planning and Housing on the Proposal for a Law No 6 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Electronic Communications Act and transposes Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 1972, establishing the European Electronic Communications Code. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PSD and the NAP, votes against the CFP and IL, BE and L abstentions.]] We shall generally vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Economics, Public Works, Planning and Housing on the Proposal for a Law No 8 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 1, which aims to empower the competition authorities of the Member States to apply the law more effectively and ensure the proper functioning of the internal market. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS and the PSD, votes against the CFP and abstentions against the IL, BE, PAN and L.]] With regard to this replacement text, we shall vote on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes carried out in the special session of the Commission. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the IL.]] We shall now proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the said replacement text submitted by the Committee on Economics, Public Works, Planning and Housing on the Proposal for a Law No 8 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 1, which aims to empower the competition authorities of the Member States to apply the law more effectively and ensure the proper functioning of the internal market. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS and the PSD, votes against the CFP and abstentions against the IL, BE, PAN and L.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also important to vote for two opinions from the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, which Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha will give us.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u308	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Land of Aveiro — Judge General of Espinho — Judge 2, Case No 629 / 19.3T9ESP, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Joaquim Pinto Moreira ( PSD ) to present a statement as a witness within the framework of the said cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u309	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] Please proceed, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u310	Mr. President and Mr. Members, in accordance with the request of the Central Court of Criminal Instruction of Lisbon — TCIC — Judge 4, Inquiry No 3306 / 20.9T9LSB, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize the lifting of parliamentary immunity of Mr Joaquim Barreto ( PS ) within the framework of those cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-21.u311	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of our work. The next week will be devoted entirely to work in parliamentary committees. Very good weekend to all. The session is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 15 minutes.]]
