ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, I declare open the sitting. [[It was 10 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the galleries. For the reading of the dossier, Mr. Secretary of the Bureau Maria da Luz Rosinha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, very good day to all and to all. I will announce that the draft resolution No 18 / XV / 1 has been introduced into the Bureau. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to Madrid and Málaga and Draft Deliberation No 1 / XV / 1. a ( PAR) — List and composition of standing parliamentary committees. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Member. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin, I appreciate your silence. The agenda for today, this morning, is the continuation of the debate on the XXIII Constitutional Government Programme. I welcome the Government and all parliamentary groups for the discipline they used the times yesterday and call for the same discipline to be put into practice today. This will allow us to conclude this part of the debate until 1 p.m. and 30 minutes and resume work at 3 p.m. for the end of the debate, which in turn will allow us to complete the work before 5 p.m. To speak on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister for Economic Affairs and the Sea, Mr. Antonio Costa Silva, to whom I welcome in this first speech in the Assembly, in the 15th Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning to all. I would like to begin by greeting Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr Prime Minister, the Members. Members of the Government and the Members of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen. When we look at the situation of the Portuguese economy today, we cannot have any illusions: we are going through an extremely difficult time. The Portuguese economy has been severely shaken by the pandemic and is being severely shaken by the effects of the war on Ukraine. The combination of the exponential increase in energy prices with the increase in commodity and food prices, combined with the associated inflationary tensions, is creating a very difficult picture for families and Portuguese companies. That is why, since the first day, since the takeover, the Government has made a great effort to have a package of measures that respond to these needs on the ground as quickly as possible. The Prime Minister, yesterday afternoon, has already listed some of these measures, such as price retention, with the reduction to 13 % of VAT (value added tax) for fuels such as the issue of the restriction of the contagion in the Iberian Electricity Market of gas prices, which can provide savings for domestic industries, families and businesses in the order of 690 million euros. But we also have a set of measures to support the entire sector of production, from then on, with the creation of professional gas for the goods transport sector, the limitation and flexibility of corporate tax obligations and the deferral of payments for social security, a very significant package for all industries that are gas consumers, ranging from textiles to glass, ceramics, chemicals, steels, chemical industries. Therefore, the whole of these packages shows that we are concerned about the short term, in order to respond significantly to the challenges facing us. At the same time, however, we need to have a medium and long-term thought and a strategy for the growth of the country's economy and for the development model we want for the future. It is in this sense that we can, at this stage, at this difficult crossroads where the country is, fight to change the growth path, in the sense of strengthening, and to change the development model itself. How are we gonna do that? Bringing more money to the economy and betting on companies that produce goods and provide competitive services in the global market, stimulating them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is an extraordinary effort that we must make and that must be linked, from the outset, with increasing the quality of implementation of the European funds and, above all, with increasing the effectiveness that the impact of the implementation of the European funds can have on the structural transformation of the Portuguese economy. The Government's economic strategy rests on six key pillars, six levers that we must move and combine, at the same time, to achieve the goal, which is in the Government's Programme, to increase the national economy 0, 5 percentage points above the European average in the coming years, to reach 53 % of the volume of exports, in proportion to GDP (gross domestic product) in 2030 and 9 % of those exports respond to technological products, high added value products. We are going to take this path, betting on the first lever, which has to do with the qualification and skills of the workers. The country has made a significant effort, made an admirable trajectory in this area, but we must do much more and, above all, we must increase the proportion of the active population that ends secondary education and link this with a review of all vocational training courses, aligning them with the designs of sectoral associations, business associations and what is the response to the needs of companies. The second anchor has to do with the capitalisation of companies. If we look at the capital level of Portuguese companies, the level of capital per worker is the lowest when compared with that of the European Union. The capitalisation of companies is decisive, because there is no economic growth, there is no development without capital. So we have to have instruments on the ground and, of course, we have to have a healthy commercial bank. There is no healthy economy without it, but at the same time we have to align this with the Development Bank, which is created, has a flexible model, uses capital and non-capital instruments and operates in modalities ranging from public investment to guarantees, from co-investment to funds. The third key lever is technological innovation. We need to change the country's development model, because it cannot be based on low wages, it must be based on technological innovation. The Government programme provides for a selective decline in IRC ( corporate income tax ). We need to draw a package that can stimulate enthusiasm at this level, connecting the selective decline of IRC to companies that reinvest their profits in their economic activity, to companies that are engaged in technological innovation... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...and for companies that hire qualified young people, especially doctors, for their innovation system.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u6	There is a question that is central here, which is to launch the Mobilizing Agendas, which are part of the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ). On 13 April, companies will submit their final applications and we have to select for terms, before the summer, the operational contracts with the productive fabric. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I am very hopeful about the presentations that companies, the technological fabric and the Portuguese scientific system have made. We see in these Agendas the economy of the future for the country, because not only do we have the reinvention of the traditional sectors of our economy, applying more digitisation, the circular economy, we have, finally, all the value chains to reinvent ourselves, but we also have projects related to the economy of the future, especially marine biotechnology. Portugal can be a global reference in the area of marine biotechnology, with projects in the areas of the circular economy and energy sustainability. For me, one of the big poles is what happens in Sines. Sines can be one of the country's major development poles for the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We can have in Sines not one, but two « Autoeuropas », in the future. This is because it can be a connected and digitized port to the entire international port network, it can be a hub of green technologies that are the new fuels for the entire marine and the forces that move in the sea, particularly with hydrogen, ammonia and methanol. It can be a data processing centre with existing submarine cables; it can be a LNG import centre (liquified natural gas) and then transshipping across the European system. So we are going to bet at the government level on the mobilization for this area. The fourth factor that is decisive is that of financial and digital literacy. When compared with the most advanced countries in the world, 30% to 40% of the productivity differential we have in relation to these countries is due to the still weak quality of financial management and the quality we have in our systems. We must therefore improve our institutions at all levels and our idea is to agree with our business schools, with the management schools to have training packages, in terms of financial and economic management, for businesses, for institutions and for the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The fifth major lever that is decisive is the ecosystem of innovation. The country has made an admirable journey in recent years, at the level of its scientific and technological system. We are able to produce knowledge in several areas, along with what is best done in the world, but we must revisit our innovation ecosystem, including interaction between universities, polytechnics, innovation centres with all the business fabric, because the incorporation of knowledge into the productive fabric will create the possibility of developing new products of high added value, and this can be absolutely decisive for the future. The sixth lever on which we have to bet must be linked to the question of exports and imports. We cannot only see exports, we must continue the admirable effort that has been made by the institutions responsible for expanding our penetration into the international markets and increasing the volume of our exports. But this has to work on a kind of double propeller, also connecting to the import map. We need to have a smart strategy to replace imports we make from outside. Why? Because one of the obises that does not allow the Portuguese economy to grow and release all its potential is the imported content of our exports. If we work exports and imports articulatedly, we will have a path to the future. I wanted to conclude by saying that crises in the history of countries are frequent. Fundamental transformations are rare. We have before us the opportunity to make a fundamental transformation in our country, but for this, it is required that, regardless of our differences, we know how to work with each other, shoulder to shoulder, creating large collaborative platforms, political, social, business, to change to better our productive fabric. Our commitment, our commitment, our dedication is for Portugal. That's what moves me, that's what moves us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u7	Mr Minister, the Bureau has registered 12 entries for requests for clarification, and we have already been informed that it will respond in blocks of six. The first registered for a request for clarification is Mrs Mariana Mortágua, from the Left Block, to whom I give the floor. Mrs. Deputy, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you, but I do confess that it is not yet very clear to me exactly what the exclusive competences of your Ministry are. However, there is one subject that seems to me to be indisputable, which in the Minister's words is the exponential increase in the price of energy goods and food goods, with inflationary trends throughout the economy. I'd like to start by asking you two things about taxes. First of all, what is the reason for maintaining an additional ISP (charge on oil and energy products) created when the price of fuels was in historical minimums and that the Government promised that it would eliminate, if the price of fuel would rise? Secondly, why does the Government insist on taxation of VAT electricity, as if it were luxury goods? Are you going to or will not the government drop the electricity tax to a reasonable rate? But inflation is not just tax. If the right is talking only about taxes because of inflation, it is because you do not want to talk about the profits of large companies, who are taking advantage of this time to increase prices and their margins. The two main energy companies in Portugal will distribute this year 1300 million to their shareholders. The Prime Minister said yesterday that he would not update wages and that it was necessary to attack the causes of inflation. So I ask you, what are you going to do? I ask you whether the government will use the legal power to limit the margins of the Galp, which increased in 2001 while people impoverished every time they went to the gas bomb. I ask you whether the government will explain to Portuguese companies that will pay more for light because the government insists on maintaining the guaranteed profits of EDP ( Energy from Portugal ). When Mr. Prime Minister announced yesterday that he's going to lower the electricity bill by over 600 million...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u9	It was 690 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u10	...he didn't tell the story until the end. It is that the energy produced by dams continues to be paid four times as much as it was in 2020, and its costs are equal to 2020. Another thing that Mr. Prime Minister did not say exactly how it will be that the price of gas will be lower and that difference will be paid by all consumers in tariff deficit. It is tomorrow's consumers who are going to pay for the drop in the price of gas that Mr. Prime Minister announced yesterday in the rostrum. And it was important that the government could clarify that. But there's another theme, and it's not just about energy. Has Mr. Minister been to the supermarket yet? Don't you think something strange happened in the commodity prices in the supermarket? Does it not seem strange that, within a month, if you have tried another price cartel between Auchan, Model / Continent, Lidl, Pingo Doce? Does it not seem strange that Pedro Soares dos Santos, president of Jerome Martins, Pingo Doce, announced an increase in profits and that he will hand them over to all shareholders, and that he later said that it was necessary to lower the VAT of essential goods? Minister, what are you going to do on the margins of retail companies, which are increasing prices? The question here is very simple: who will pay for inflation? Are frozen wages going to be cut off or are they the margins of large companies? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u11	Mr Afonso Oliveira, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u12	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs and the Sea, I can see — as I have heard today, here — that is just coming to the government and here is a moment of dream, of reflection, of thought, of your moment of vision for Portugal, which you have recently had. But it will come to reality and it will realize that reality is not the one that transmitted there in the rostrum. We'd like it to be. There are a set of intentions that he presented there and that are only intentions, dreams, reflections, desires. We're talking about reality here. The economy is a lot of reality, it is a lot of companies, people, workers, the way everything works, it is not this way that today, here, presented it. But on this second day of debate, almost at the end of the debate, Mr Minister, there is one issue that seems very relevant to me: this is a government programme without ambition. This is as clear as water: without ambition! There is no such ambition! You don't realize what the government's ambition is for the next few years in the country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u13	It is a programme that completely forgets the reality of the country in which we live, as happened here to the Minister in his first speech, but we will see later in the future. You have your opportunity, as Minister of Economics, to present your vision for the country later. It is a copy of the PS Election Program — this has already been said. Mr. Prime Minister is very pleased with this, he is very pleased with that,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u14	It's called consistency!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u15	... and completely forgets that reality has changed, changed completely in two months, and there was no adaptation. The government cannot adapt to reality. Everything has changed, everything has changed, prices have changed, inflation is at the levels at which it is, the war has started, but nothing has changed for the government. The Government had a programme and decided to present it here in Parliament. I had announced it, it has already done so and that is a fact. But the government begins very badly, because the Government's programme does not reflect economic growth as a fundamental objective. Mr Minister, without economic growth it is not worth this conversation, it is not worth this conversation. It is not possible to do anything strictly in the country, distribute whatever it is, if there is no growth. Growth policies and a clear growth goal for the country are fundamental. The objectives of this government are clearly reduced and very short. Another issue that the government, unfortunately, is a unhappiness, but it is the government that we have, that is, what has been decided - does not work is the process of impoverishment which has led the country in recent years. There is no doubt that Portugal is one of the poorest countries in Europe right now, and we are completely losing all international rankings, we are losing successively with the countries we compare ourselves with. Therefore, at the end of the term of office, Minister, I hope that your work will prevent this from happening in the coming years, but that is what is happening. If you notice, behind us we already have few countries: Romania, Latvia, Croatia, Slovakia, Greece, Bulgaria. So the next step will be to lose once again, to reach a ranking, but turned on the contrary. I don't think this can be, and it's a unhappiness. The Minister has a very great advantage in relation to this government : he has now integrated the government, he has entered a new remodeling. Mr Prime Minister has already remodeled twice and, in the remodeling which he has now implemented, the Minister has integrated this government and therefore has no fault of what has happened so far. What we now expect from the Minister is that there is a completely different attitude towards the past. I would like to ask you, Mr Minister. — I conclude by now, Mr President, I confess — because I think it is important, how do you think it is possible to reverse the country's poverty dynamics. What public policies do you intend to present — or do you intend to be able to influence with this government and this Prime Minister — so that the country will pursue a growth policy? How do you think you're going to reverse the way the country's impoverished? It is that if we maintain the policies that exist at the moment, the same policies have equal results. This is part of any management manual. Therefore, if it does not change policies, it will maintain the process of impoverishment. The central question that I would like to ask you — and I will not ask any more questions — is that: what policies will you present to the government to reverse poverty, to bet clearly on growth, so that a more developed country can be possible, which Portugal has not been in recent years? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u16	For a request for clarification, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz of the Liberal Initiative has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u17	Mr President, Minister for Economic Affairs and the Sea, I can only point out that he has not adopted a direct policy for young people, he has not referred here to a direct policy for young people. Therefore, young people who are at home, without hope, remain hopeless. [[Applause from the IL.]] So far, she was a young woman like so many others, who saw the impact of the policies of the governments and ungovernments of this country and one day dreamed of being able to contribute to a country where dreams could be achieved. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u18	unlike most of the young people in this country today, I have the opportunity and privilege of questioning, in the name of the frustration that is common to my generation. It is common to say that we are the most well-prepared and qualified generation ever, but if so, ironically, we are also the most neglected generation in access to opportunities and to the social elevator, in a country that has been stagnant for too long. [[Applause from the IL.]] We, the young Portuguese, are increasingly leaving our parents' home, because the net wages we take are not enough to buy the first house... [[PS protests.]] ... or to become a family. This is because three-quarters of young employees take net incomes that do not exceed €950/month and often do not reach that value. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u19	It's the collective contract we've got!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u20	Portugal needs to adopt serious reformist policies. Policies that combat young unemployment, that cross emigration, that create the conditions for young people to take place personally and professionally,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u21	...and so they can follow their dreams. Emigration cannot be an obligation, it must be an option. [[Applause from the IL.]] It speaks in its Program of the challenge of demography, birth, tax deductions for families with children, of IRS (tax on income of natural persons) Young, and reinforces that this country should be for a generation of highly qualified young people. Mr Minister, the Government is proud to present the enlargement of the IRS Youth for five years, but what is concerned is this: a young man who earns 11 000 € gross / year, which amounts to 785 € gross / month, will save less than 30 € / month over five years. Do you think, Mr Minister, that a young talent, who can earn twice as much in another country, will stay in Portugal with only 30 € in the pocket? Oh, my God! [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u22	Mr Carlos Pereira of the Socialist Party has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u23	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister for the Economy and the Sea, my first word is greeting and to make vows for the mandate for the Portuguese and with great success. Before starting my questions, I would like to make a few comments in the context of the debate that took place yesterday in Parliament. I think it is very important to clarify a set of matters, even because some of the Members — and Mr Afonso Oliveira was one of them — brought back one of the subjects that was widely discussed yesterday. I believe that the Socialist Party must and must clarify the Portuguese on these matters. The first is, of course, about economic growth. We do not accept PSD lessons on public policies for economic growth. [[Protests by PSD Member Afonso Oliveira.]] We perceive the concern of the PSD — and of the whole right in general — about the circumstances of the Socialist Party being the only party in Portugal that in this century was able to make the country grow four years after the European Union average. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u24	They took the country to bankruptcy!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u25	We understand this concern, we perceive these difficulties! But, Mr Afonso Oliveira, in addition, when you talk about these matters, you have to tell the whole story, you have to tell what is really relevant about economic growth. We know that there are limits to the country's competitiveness and that these limits are structural. And what this government has been trying to do in recent times has been precisely going beyond these structural limits, which are absolutely essential. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And when some try to create a causal link between the Socialist Party and the fact that some countries in Europe grow more than Portugal, and even exceed Portugal — that is, with the Socialist Party the countries go beyond Portugal — that is dishonest. [[Protests by PSD Member Afonso Oliveira.]] Even because, as you know, some countries have been going beyond Portugal for 20 years. Some have passed through the Government of Durão Barroso, others have passed through the Government of António Costa, of course, but we must look at the structural limits and one of them, which was mentioned yesterday—and very well— by the Prime Minister, has to do with education. [[Protests by PSD Member Afonso Oliveira.]] Education is absolutely essential. When we look, for example, at the percentage of the population with higher education in 2020 — I am not speaking in 2004 when they entered the European Union, but by 2020 — we realize that Poland has 53, 8 % with higher education, Ireland has 52, 4 %, Romania has 49, 7 %, Estonia has 45, 7 %, Bulgaria has 42, 4 %, Hungary has 36, 2 %, Lithuania has 34, 8 %. Portugal has 33, 6 %, had in 2015 28, 5 %, is making a great effort and this is absolutely decisive. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But there is more, sir. There is, above all, public investment, the public investment against which you have been fighting for years. Now, do you know what happened to your governance, to public investment? It's 60 percent down! With PS, it has increased by 20 % in the last five years. We made an effort. More is needed, but this is crucial for economic growth. [[PSD protests.]] Finally, research and development and productivity are two key issues. Now, with you, research and development in GDP fell as never before, and it fell a lot.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u26	Troica!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u27	We have made an effort over the past five years and have finally reached 1 % of GDP. [[PSD protests.]] That is good news and that is, in fact, what needs to be done for economic growth. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But there is another issue that I can only mention, which has to do with inflation. And inflation is actually a very complex issue. It is perhaps the biggest challenge that governments today — today in this environment — have in Europe. But I cannot fail to observe that yesterday the leader of the Social Democratic Party, Mr Rui Rio,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u28	Speak of inflation!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u29	... arose in this debate of hands given with the Left Block and had the rise of, in the face of conjuncural inflationary tensions, as has already been widely demonstrated,... [[PSD protests.]] ... to say that good, it was good to accommodate all these inflationary tensions in rising wages. I do not know whether Mr Rui Rio, an economist, understands the size of what he said and the impact that this can have on the country, on unemployment and, of course, on the country's economic environment. [[CH protests.]] It is indeed very serious that this is so. Finally...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u30	Mr President, you have already exceeded twice your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u31	I'm done now, Mr. President. Finally, the reforms. I must remind you here that Mr Afonso Oliveira did not bring this issue, but Mr Rui Rio brings the issue of the Government's programme to a large extent without reform. Mr. Deputy, the PRR has 22 reforms. And I wanted to remind you that a few months ago there was a headline in the Express — which was set up by the PSD — which said that the government was negotiating hidden reforms with the European Union. However, it was shown that there were no hidden reforms, that there was total transparency. But it happens that this reminds me a little bit of that logic of a group of friends who are talking about and who comes to another and says, "What are you saying is a secret? And they say: « No, it's no secret», to which the first answer « ah, then it doesn't matter! It is that the reforms exist, but, as it is not a secret, you no longer want to know. It's 22 reforms! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Not a word did you say about it. Finally, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u32	Mr President, this is the second time you say « finally».
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u33	Finally, Mr. President, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, the question is very clear: in view of the national plan, which is clearly expressed in the Government programme, what are the competitiveness factors that need to be driven to ensure that convergence is maintained with the European Union? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u34	Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, Minister for Economic Affairs, there is a priority in the economic policy guidelines for Portugal which is placed with an undeniable urgency and which the Government Programme simply ignores. This priority we want to highlight here is to ensure significant public investment growth by setting the reference of 5 % of GDP per year, the adjusted and comprehensive implementation of the Recovery and Resilience Plan and the other Community funds, and a strong promotion of business investment. The CFP has always stressed the vital importance of the development of national production, as an engine for economic growth and full use of national capacities and resources, as a response to domestic demand, as an alternative to many imports and as a support for a more value-added and diverse export sector in products and destinations. Europe's recovery and reindustrialisation cannot be achieved on account of an even greater deindustrialisation of Portugal. See the Matosinhos refinery, closed by Petrogal with the complicity of the government. In Portugal, we began to import refined gas oil, we are more dependent on this aspect and there are those who win it, but they lose the country and the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u36	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u37	Mr President, even now in his speech, what we have been stressing for a long time, that is, we must move forward with reindustrialization, replace imports by national production, increase national added value and the national component in exports and invest in national production, including food, medicines and means of transport. But this is not done by rewarding the de-investment and subsidizing the groom to the rich, in the distributions of dividends of economic groups, while further restricting the public investment capacity, sacrificing it at the altar of Brussels tax. Mr Minister, does the Government's programme make no reference to the outlook for public investment in the next four years, from now on in the national component of that investment, and the question is the following: will we continue to have very low levels of public investment budgeting, and even lower levels of budgetary implementation? Oh, my God! Are we going to continue to have public investment below the level of a decade ago? Oh, my God! Do you not agree, Minister, that, in this context and with these perspectives, what the country needs is even more investment, particularly productive, and that requires a public investment strategy, which is absent from this Programme? Oh, my God! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u38	Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, I begin by wishing you very much good luck, because the country needs a Minister for Economics very fortunately after 20 years of stagnation. The Government programme speaks of a knowledge economy, but in order to have an knowledge economy, the first step is to have a good knowledge of what the economy is. Your Government programme talks about convergence, and I also heard your Prime Minister talking about convergence yesterday. Let's see if we have that convergence. In 2015 the GDP per Portuguese head was 78 % of the European Union's average. Do you know how much it is today? It's 74%. Where is the convergence, Minister? I tell you where it is: in 2015, in this same indicator, Romania was 22 points behind Portugal. Do you know how many are there today? You don't know, do you? Oh, my God! There's a point behind Portugal. This is the convergence we have, it is the convergence with the poorest countries of the European Union! [[Applause from the IL.]] Mr. Prime Minister said yesterday, also here, about TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ), that all airlines were reducing their flights to port, since 2019. Yesterday we learned that both Ryanair and EasyJet will increase the number of passengers in port this year compared to 2019. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] Mr Minister, how do you want a knowledge economy when you are the first to come here to contribute so that there is no knowledge about what the real economy is? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u40	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u41	But there is a slight hope, yesterday, I had a slight hope, when your Prime Minister came here to talk about a Dutch social policy, housing policy. I am sure that, if I knew more about this policy than the two lines that gave you the advisor, perhaps, did not come to talk about it... But it is a sign of hope, it is a sign of hope because it can look at housing policy and can look at education policy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u43	... where two thirds of students who study with public money do so in private schools. [[Applause from the IL.]] You can also look at social health policy, where everyone in the Netherlands has the right to choose whether they want to be treated and where they want to be treated. [[Applause from the IL.]] Look at Holland's policies, but don't just look at how Holland spends its money. We will not imitate rich countries just in the way they spend, we will also imitate them, because it is necessary, in the way they create wealth, Minister. It's important, we're not just gonna copy one of these parts. Mr Minister, are you willing to recommend to your Government the same fiscal policy that the Netherlands has? The same justice policy? Same bureaucratic policy? [[Applause from the IL.]] I hope he is! I look at your electoral programme and see a very interesting goal, which is that of the economy 4.0. And let me tell you that it was an extraordinarily well-chosen, very well-chosen title. And you know why? Because four is the number of countries in the European Union that have surpassed us in this ranking, since Antonio Costa is Prime Minister, and zero is the economic growth that the country has had in the last legislature. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[PS protests.]] And no, the pandemic is not an excuse! Portugal is among the — only — five countries of the European Union which failed to grow between 2019 and 2021.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u44	Mr...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u45	I'll be done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u46	Sir, allow me to interrupt you. The honourable Member has not only exceeded twice as much of his time as he has spent the time of his party...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u47	I'll be done.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u48	Sir, listen to me and then intervene. I therefore ask you to conclude your reasoning.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u49	Mr Minister, to finish: Mr. Prime Minister said yesterday, here, that the market does not solve everything, and does not resolve, because only in your preconceived heads... [[PS protests.]] ... is that liberals find that, but the market can solve many things. Do you know who doesn't solve anything and only creates problems 20 years ago? It's the Socialist Party! [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u50	In reply, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs and the Sea has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u51	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, as you know very well, the economy is extremely complex, nobody knows everything and therefore we will always be ready to discuss, debate and incorporate the ideas you have, but life has taught me, in relation to the economy, that we cannot see only one part of reality and forget the other. The economy has companies, they are the drivers of growth and economic development, they have people and we have to articulate them both and we have to have a functioning market. As for your concern about energy prices and everything that is going on, I would like to tell you that we are, of course, monitoring the situation with great concern. We have gone through many other crises, such as those of the 1970s, and now we have almost a reproduction of this crisis, with everything it has impact on people's lives. But, basically, when it comes to your concern about taxes and, above all, about the random taxes that companies have, I must say that we cannot, firstly, harass companies, what we are going to do is talk to them and probably consider a tax, a windfall tax, for the random and unexpected profits they are having. With this, we may have another measure to respond exactly to your concern. Mr Afonso Oliveira, you put my intervention in the field of dream and I think we can always dream, and we have a country that allows us to dream. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are a country of fighters, a country of resistance, a country that mobilizes and galvanizes when facing difficulties, and that is what we will have to do. Many people say that this is impossible and that what we are proposing here is impossible, but to live, Mr. Deputies, is to make possible the impossible. [[P.S.'s applause.]] He speaks of the reality and the ignorance of reality, but I can tell him, Mr Member, that he travels the country from north to south and the reality of the country is that in Sines he has investment intentions of EUR 10 billion, he has, at the level of the big industrial poles of the country, such as Braga, Guimarães, Famalíão or Barcelos, a gold quadrilateral for equipment goods and for industrial production.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u52	By the Family, thank you!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u53	When you go to Covilhã, the White Castle or the Guard has centers that investigate in the area of health sciences, you have microcosms of digital technologies. The country's changing! The reality is this and my function here is not to pull the country down, it is to pull the country up. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Several of the Mrs. Members expressed concerns about the impoverishment of the country and, as has already been discussed in this House, before the pandemic the country was growing more than the European Union average. The numbers are clear! We can dispute many things, we cannot dispute the numbers, they are there, they are absolutely clear, so what we have to do now is recover from the brutal impact that the pandemic has had and that this crisis of Ukraine's war is having. To do this, we have to bet on what the country has to do best, but some of you. Members only think of what the country has to do with the worst, and that's not the case. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz, Mrs Gilvaz, you have expressed great concern about the issue of young people and I fully share your concern. I have been a teacher for many years at the Technical Higher Institute and, for young people, we have to find a way for them to settle in the country and use their qualifications. Now, from the knowledge I have, what young people want to do is work in all areas of innovation. And we, in the area of marine biotechnology, software services, with the new skills we have at the level of code manufacturing, as some of the 'unicorns' in Portugal show, have to take a path to young people. Obviously, IRS Young is a measure, but if young people have the opportunity to develop their careers in the country and to focus on technological and innovation areas, we will make a way for the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u54	If, if, if...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u55	Young people want this, they want to work in these advanced areas, produce their knowledge. If we are able to corporate, for example, what is happening in Sines, which has a multicontinental network of submarine cables, associated with data processing centers and big data, using artificial intelligence, using the machines they learn, we have a whole generation that can have competence at the level of these areas, which are crucial for the future. And if I talk about it, I also talk about health sciences. We have cutting-edge research in the area of health sciences. If we can have an industrial policy that incorporates this knowledge into the productive tissue, we have a lot of way for young people to stay in the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Carlos Pereira, I think you have mentioned — and very well — the question of productivity and the factors that can explain the development and recovery of productivity in the country. These factors are clear, are identified by numerous economic theories, and I have tried to mention them as some of the levers that I find crucial to increase the resilience of the country's productive tissue in relation to the skills and skills of workers, with the refreshing of vocational education courses and their alignment with the challenges of companies and productive tissue, with innovation, especially with technological innovation, the knowledge economy and the knowledge economy. Mr Bruno Dias, I couldn't agree with you any more. I fully share your concern with the national industry and that is why the last point I mentioned means that we will continue to develop our exports, especially of high value added goods and products, sign very well and extend the potential we have in several markets. We will study this carefully, but without ever forgetting the map of imports and all that can mean an intelligent import substitution strategy, i.e. to produce in the national territory products, goods that are competitive on a global scale and incorporate them into our fabric, because this will completely change the trajectory of our country. What I think is missing is a vision of the Portuguese economy with all these levers, aligned and conjugated for the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u56	There you go!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u57	Mr Minister, you have already exceeded twice as much time as you had available. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u58	Yes, Mr President, I have only one more question, which is that of Mr Guimarães Pinto, who insisted on the problem of impoverishment. I have answered partly, but, Mr, what moves us here is not looking at poverty, is understanding some of the factors that have not allowed the full potential of the Portuguese economy to be released and creating conditions for the sustainable growth of the country's potential GDP in the next decade. This is done only in a way: by creating more wealth and creating conditions for companies, the productive fabric, in conjunction with the scientific and technological system, create more wealth. This will be the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u59	You have the floor for a request for clarification, Mr. Jorge Mendes, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u60	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr President, we do not yet know the organic law, most of the sectors of the real economy: industry, tourism, trade, services and also the sea. In September 2020, at a hearing in the Committee on Economic Affairs, Prof. António Costa Silva defended the need for greater coordination, greater coordination between the preparation of the PRR and Portugal 2030, which did not happen and is manifest in this Government Programme. And there are also some shortcomings that I consider serious: these are omissions I do not understand, and also the Portuguese do not, concerning Portugal 2020 and Portugal 2030, which are referred to as light, with a few simple references, when we know that the good performance of the Government Programme will be very conditioned by the good implementation of the rest of Portugal 2020 and Portugal 2030, in addition to the PRR. from Portugal 2020, I still believe that according to the latest data EUR 5000 million will be implemented ; from Portugal 2030, we will have EUR 26 billion at our disposal. I believe that the partnership agreement which was sent to Brussels was approved at the Council of Ministers on 3 March. I do not know the final version and I believe that neither this House knows it, nor the Portuguese, but the action of this minister, who protects the area of the real economy, will be very conditional on the success of the implementation of the Community funds, as he mentioned recently. The question I would like to ask you, Minister, is this: is the execution of Portugal 2030 at the height of another minister, or a minister, I think, by the way that this conditions its protection, does it not consider that it is a hostage to the success of this execution? Or is it confident in the success of the Simplex of the European Funds? I would also like to ask you other questions related to the sectors that Mr. Minister for Protection. With regard to tourism, we have had a great deal of lack of support measures over the past few years, especially recovery measures, in the face of the difficulties that the sector has experienced. The Government is now proposing to implement the Plan to Reactivate Tourism Building the Future, which will be financed, I believe, by Portugal 2030. Mr Minister, will this plan come out of the famous plan to support Algarve tourism, promised for two years and always postponed? Is it the plan or the measure that the Government has entered into in its Government programme — to approve and dynamize the competitiveness of trade — that will emerge from the famous support for trade and tourism in border regions? Mr Minister, in order to conclude here, in the face of silence and often the delays and lack of protection of the economy in recent years, does the Government of the Socialist Party, this Government, still have room for an economic minister with an intervention space at the service of the Portuguese economy? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u61	Mr Hugo Costa of the Socialist Party has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u62	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Minister for Economic Affairs and the Sea, the Portuguese economy faces enormous challenges, the result of external factors, but we must have confidence, because the foundation for the continuation of a good pro-cyclical policy will continue to have results. This pro-cyclical policy has enabled, contrary to what a certain opposition likes to propagate, economic growth above the European average and with a level of employment above the pre-pandamy period.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u63	It's gonna be okay!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u64	Yes, these data are factual and there is no way to lie. Of course, they reflect the work of companies, Portuguese workers and their resilience, but only the dishonesty of a certain form of policymaking may not recognize the importance of public policies in solving this matter. We are faced with economic growth of convergence at European level, but also with answers to combat inequalities. We grew up more and converged with the European Union. But we are also talking about growth that must combat territorial inequalities and also social convergence. Of course, we live a reality, in the international landscape, with new and important challenges. Inflationary pressure is a reality, but still yesterday the Government announced a set of measures for price containment by the Prime Minister. The role of the business sector, unlike the vaccinated sector, is crucial in this Government Programme, but also in Portugal 2030 and in the Recovery and Resilience Plan. He therefore questioned the Minister of the Economy and the Sea about the importance of public investment in the response from the point of view of macroeconomic multipliers, for economic growth, but also about the importance of companies both in the Recovery and Resilience Plan, both in Portugal 2030, and in the Government's strategy for economic growth. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u65	For a request for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs PAN, Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u66	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs and the Sea, if we had an expression that we could somehow associate with the Government's programme, it would be 'trust the PRR and not run' because, indeed, it seems that this is where the Government bets all its tokens, although the past has already shown us that Portugal has been a bad student with regard to the implementation of the Community funds. We simply look at the implementation of Portugal 2020 to realize that more than EUR 6 billion has yet to be implemented and, when we are already in the run-up to the RPP itself, we have only run 2 %, i.e. EUR 359 million. Therefore, the first question I cannot but ask you is what measures the Government will promote to ensure that these Community funds are properly implemented and that the use of each cent, which is so lacking in our country, will be made not only transparently—and for this reason the NAP has already achieved the introduction of the Transparency Portal in the State Budget, but also accompanied by civil society. We see very much government and little civil society in monitoring the implementation of these funds. And I also ask whether or not it agrees with the NAP's proposal for the establishment of an assembly of citizens who can monitor their implementation. In relation to what the Minister has already referred to, in particular, the reduction of taxes on petroleum products, we again see Portugal in contrast to those which have been the recommendations of the United Nations itself (United Nations) and the scientific community. We are seven years from the point of no return and, Minister, every penny should be going to families and businesses. To continue to give hands to those who are the most polluted, to those who profit most clearly is not a public policy appropriate to the challenges of our time. How are we going to guarantee the green transition of companies? How will we guarantee the energy autonomy of our country, when the war has already shown us the importance of being sovereign and autonomous in this matter? How, from a food point of view, will we also ensure our autonomy? A short time ago, the Minister said that we should be competitive and bet on what was, from a global point of view, our competitive capacity. But I ask you, Minister, because we are now going to have the revision of the new VAT directive, whether or not the Government is available to apply a zero VAT in essential products, such as bread, cereals, vegetables, fruit, all those who can be food of origin 100 % vegetable, because that is the only way we can be sure that we will be able to wage in our country's autonomy in terms of food and also in the fight against the crisis of our lives, which is the fight against the climate crisis and which cannot be a mere mirage on the horizon. Finally, Mr Minister, he inherited the protection of the sea. It was with concern that we found that this ministry no longer had its own autonomy, but I ask you what you will do about mining in the deep sea. Can we rest, in the sense that the sea will be preserved, with its habitats and ecosystems, or Portugal will also destroy what is a unique and fundamental heritage for the fight against climate change, as you have done in the national territory? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u67	For a request for clarification, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u68	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, of the reading of the Government Programme, we have identified that it does not give the necessary answer to support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises ( MPME ). The micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in our country are in a situation of enormous fragility. Many of them suffered closures, reductions in compulsive activity, in fact, were not properly supported following the epidemic of COVID-19. And it was not quite the fact that they have not yet recovered their activity, it now adds a set of new difficulties resulting from the impact of the international situation. We must bear in mind that our economy is, above all, based on micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and it is important that the Government undertake concrete commitments to support the development of this activity. contrary to what is systematically repeated to try to contain the increase in wages, including the national minimum wage, are not the wages that weigh most on the costs of MPMEs, but, yes, other costs, such as energy, insurance, credits, among others. Furthermore, the increase in wages is decisive for the dynamisation of economic activity and has a positive impact on the MPME. We have long raised the need for the government to intervene on energy costs, which, in certain sectors, is the most important thing in the costs of MPMEs, which is now aggravated by the speculative prices of fuels, gas and electricity, and which may even call into question the continued activity of many of these companies. Yesterday, the Government made a series of announcements here in the Assembly of the Republic, but support for the MPMEs requires price regulation, on the ground that the profits of the large oil industry continue to remain untouchable.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u69	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u70	in some sectors, energy costs are indeed the main problem; in others it will be the increase in the price of raw materials, or even the shortage of these same raw materials. It is therefore necessary to adopt concrete solutions to support MPMEs in order to avoid reducing their productive capacity. The question I would like to put to you is whether or not the Government is in fact admitting with the fund to support the treasury of the MPMEs, which would enable such effective support and ensure the continuation of the economic activity of the MPMEs. This is a concrete, feasible measure which would make all the difference for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u71	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, from the PSD, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Prime Minister, other members of the Government, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs yesterday, with at least one and a half months late, Mr Prime Minister orally presented to Parliament an addendum to the Government's programme to help the Portuguese economy face the current situation. It was an interesting announcement, Mr Minister. Until yesterday, we all knew that the world had changed, we all knew that we had to change our lives, only the government wanted to live the same life as we had until January 30, and so all this time, olympically ignored the effects of war.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u73	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u74	And the plan announced yesterday by the Prime Minister, in particular to respond to the energy shock, could already be in practice two weeks ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u75	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u76	Mr Minister, nothing has happened again, strictly nothing new this week, that you would not know. We all knew, except for the government — and, by the way, Mr Economics — that there are companies stopping production because it is impossible to produce at the cost of the energy they are in force. But the plan announced yesterday by Mr Prime Minister does not save the Government's programme, because he, Minister, does not offer measures, but only wishes or, in his own expression, dreams: the dream of greater economic growth for Portugal, the dream of increasing Portuguese purchasing power, the dream of greater productivity, the dream of greater competitiveness of our economy. Then you look at the Government Programme and you lack concrete measures to materialize those desires, to materialize those dreams. Let's look at a few examples. In his past life, he argued that it was necessary to overcome the dramatic obstacle that represented the low level of corporate capitalisation, which could not be made through debt. We read the Government Programme and, Mr Minister, we find no effective measures in this regard. In his past life, he argued that it was imperative to take advantage of all the installed capacity we have on the Iberian Peninsula to import gas and improve energy connections with the rest of Europe. We read the Government Programme and find nothing more than the mere proclamation. A few months ago, the Minister was outraged, or displeased, by the fact that the Development Bank was not in full operation. We read the Government Programme, Mr Minister, and we do not even find the expression « Banco de Fomento ». Mr Minister, tell us that this is even your Government Programme or this Programme is no less than the mirror of your statement made in June 2020 that integrating the Government was not part of your DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid)? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u77	For a request for clarification, Mr Rui Afonso, from the party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u78	Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members, Minister for Economic Affairs, what brings me here is the economic and financial management of State institutions. The waste rate in institutions is brutal. I will give you an example of what happens to the Ministry of Health. in a recent past, a former Minister of Health said that 10 % of health funds were not used to improve the SNS (National Health Service ), i.e. 1000 million euros, transferred directly from the State Budget, are lost every year due to waste or fraud. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It is money that, if recovered, would allow to invest in several alternative projects, such as improving the quality of health care and the response time of the SNS to the citizens or even increasing the level of productivity and satisfaction of the professionals of the National Health Service. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u79	Mr Minister, and considering the current situation in the country, the misery in which we find ourselves, I ask you: what concrete measures will you take, together with your colleagues in the Government, to bring this situation back once and for all, by fighting for an efficient management of the State's resources? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u80	In reply, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs and the Sea has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u81	Mr President, I shall, in a concise way, try to answer the various questions which Mr Jorge Mendes raised, especially the issue of Simple in the management of European funds and the issue of tourism, trade and services. We are going to have a tourism support programme, and the Development Bank is thinking of a specific line for that support. Tourism is one of the main sectors of our activity, which represented, before the pandemic, 13 % of GDP, and is fundamental. Therefore, there is also an implementation plan, the Tourism Strategy 2027, to reinvent the tourism sector, to open it to multiple areas, to cover the national territory with nature tourism, ocean tourism, heritage tourism, cultural tourism. I think there's a long way to go and it's a sector that has to be supported. As regards trade and services, about 50% of the turnover in the country depends on this sector. It is an absolutely vital sector, so what we are going to create is an agenda for the competitiveness of the trade and services sector, working with business associations. We are here to help, facilitate and provide the development of these sectors for the future. As for the question of being a hostage, honourable Member, I am a free man, I am only a hostage of myself. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u82	I belong to a government that, as Mr. Prime Minister says, is a task force, is a cohesive team and therefore the handles here weigh little. The work together, the interactions and the attack on the problems of the country is what moves us. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Hugo Costa, I think your questions are very important in terms of public investment and the role of companies in the PRR. With regard to the PRR, there is, as I said, the plan for the Mobilizing Agendas and the Innovation Pacts. We will receive next week, April 13, the company's applications and move quickly to appreciate these applications. We must have a strategic vision for the development of the country's economy, and therefore we must bet on those sectors, both traditional ones, which are reconfiguration and becoming increasingly competitive, both the sectors of the future. The public investment plan here is decisive, but my view of public investment has always associated a cost-benefit analysis. Nor can we forget that we have to make investments in crucial areas. Our concern is always people and companies and therefore investment in SNS, housing, social policies, protection of the most vulnerable is absolutely decisive, combined with greater dynamism of companies in national production. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, asked here very interesting questions about the implementation of the PRR and European funds. It's a concern we share. As I said, we will try to increase the quality of the implementation, articulate the PRR not only with what is missing from the PT 2020, but also with the PT 2030. All contributions will be welcome. As I said, we don't know everything, nobody knows everything and the contribution is extremely important. Mrs Deputy, on the ISP issue and if we are to reward those who pollute, it is true in the current context, but if we do not do so, we will have the collapse of entire sectors of the national economy, and we do not want that. at the same time as this is done, in our Programme, as it will become clear today, there is an entire area that promotes and accelerates the energy transition. For the first time in history, Portugal may be on the right side of the energy transition. Renewable energies will be crucial in the future and our potential in wind, onshore and offshore energies, and oceanic energies is immense. This transition will be made, will be propulsioned and therefore we must look to the future. But there is one element which partly responds to the concern of the honourable Member and which is evident in all energy crises: when energy prices increase as they are increasing, they themselves are inhibitors of consumption. We therefore have this element that exists on the ground and which, together with others, will pave the way for the future. As far as the sea is concerned, which, I think, is the biggest asset we have, my great concern is that we cannot do anything in the sea without knowing it. That is why I support the university of the Atlantic, the Azores and Madeira, linked to oceanographic and climate research. There is a very interesting project of the Portuguese Navy to map ocean funds, and we have to link this project with the analysis and identification of all marine ecosystems. We still have to have a law that protects all marine ecosystems. We can only have a sea economy if the ocean is healthy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would also like to tell you that the sea, in my view, will provide the great centres of wealth creation in the future, from now on with marine biotechnology, working with ocean biomes, with algae, macroalgae and microalgae. Why? Because we have to replace plastics, we have to replace chemical fertilizers with biological products, and they themselves are degradable, which will transform the economy and ensure sustainability for the future. With regard to the question put by Mrs Paula Santos, Member of the CFP, on SMEs, it is true that, Mrs Deputy, we have a concern about their health. A programme is being implemented through IAPMEI ( Agency for Competitiveness and Innovation ) with a minimum income for SMEs. It is about EUR 85 million that are being implemented. It is clear that we are looking with concern at the increase in implementation and these support for SMEs, but I would like to see if we were able to link this within the framework of the Development Bank's programmes with the encouragement to aggregate SMEs, to their association, rewarding the joint ventures that can be created. One of the problems we have in the Portuguese economy is the lack of scale. When we look at global competition, if we have more scale in our companies, more cooperation, more business associations that promote this cooperation—as was the extraordinary example of footwear, textiles and others—we can compete differently in the global market. Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira mentioned different aspects and, above all, my statements from the past. I am keeping these statements in their entirety. It is my reading of reality. About the Development Bank, it is a great concern and I am studying this file very carefully. The Development Bank is operational, it is now on the ground, but we need to equip it, perhaps, with more human resources, we need to equip it with a chairman who has strategic vision, link to the business world and who, working with the current management team, can expand the intervention of this Bank. The Banco de Fomento has instruments of capital and almost capital, such as participatory loans, which can be a key element in helping the capitalisation of Portuguese companies, which is undoubtedly a decisive problem. But in order to help capitalize companies, we also need to change the mental paradigm that exists in the country, with excessive recourse to indebtedness through bank credit.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u83	I fully agree!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u84	So the strengthening of capital itself, through all the instruments that we can link and put on the ground, will undoubtedly be a key issue for the future. On the question of dreams, Mr President, it is not a bad dream. It all starts in a dream. If you look at the great inventions of mankind's history, they all broke an idea into a person's head. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u85	All right! That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u86	Mr Minister, you have to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u87	Mr President, I have only one more question to answer, which I believe is from Mr Rui Afonso of the Czech Republic, who has expressed here his great concern about the efficiency of the operation of the state machine. It's a problem we have to look at, we have to increase efficiency. I believe that this will be done, so we must also focus on this dimension.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u88	It's not thinking, it's doing!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u89	The use of public funds is of course vital. If you look at the PRR, it has today a portal of transparency, where everything is reported, where the money goes, how it goes and therefore citizens can monitor. What we need is to work at the level of administration and also at the level of interaction with citizens, to ensure the best implementation of all these programmes and the correct application of public funds without waste. But, as you know, the world is not perfect, and it is up to us to make it less imperfect. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u90	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, is now speaking on behalf of the order of entry.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u91	Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr Prime Minister, Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: From the day of the legislative elections to today, more than two months, little more, and the world has changed. The expression is not mine, it is from Minister Ana Catarina Mendes. But if the world has changed, the first conclusion we can draw is that the Government Programme does not. And from this point of view, what was obvious a week ago — we had an inadequate Government Programme of the current reality — was even more obvious on yesterday when the Prime Minister expressed, immediately in the initial intervention of the Government, that he intended to bring an addendum, an annex to that Government Programme. In practice, it recognized the obvious fact that the Government's programme was already outdated by reality and something else needed to be done. Looking at what was said yesterday, for the document we were looking at, I remembered after Sá-Carneiro — don't fool the poet! — because you have a poem that says the following: « A little bit more than Sol – I was hot, / A little bit more blue – I was beyond. / To reach, I missed a blow of wings...”. That is what the government lacks. It has almost the idea to present solutions, but at such a difficult moment as this country faces, if there are no solutions on the table by the government, then we only have problems. And these problems come soon, then, with the receipt of maturity: very early, very short for the month and for the prices. With regard to inflation, which is galloping, the government is timidly saying that it will try to do something. But where? In wages, to ensure that people have some purchasing power? No, no, no. You're going to try to move something into prices — something, but very little. There is a lack of such a "threatening blow" that the country needs. We look at EDP’s profits — EUR 750 million — for Galp’s profits — EUR 565 million — for what Pinko Doce is going to distribute to its shareholders — EUR 490 million — and we realize that the government, by not moving there, for not wanting to attack where the money really is, saves the millions of some, while the rest of the country continues to count the coughs. It's incomprehensible, it's unacceptable. It is a reality that even demonstrates some social insensitivity. It is true that it is not the "pretty" that the PSD spoke yesterday, but it is the same disrespect in the face of wages and the inflation that threatens it. The obvious question which was put yesterday to the Government — when prices rise to the same extent as the profits of the large economic groups, when they rise to the same extent as the wage difficulties increase, what will the government do? — there was an enormous silence until recently. A few minutes ago, the Minister for Economic Affairs said that perhaps, according to companies, the government could raise a windfall tax. Translated by kids, it would be a tax on the abusive profits of companies. [[Repeals of CH Deputies.]] It is good, then, to start discussing seriously, since, as an annex, we are actually getting to know something from the Government's programme. And this annex is, in fact, much more interesting than the original document that the Government has given us.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u92	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u93	What fee? What sectors for? In what size? How long? It is that these are the essential questions whose answers people need to know. How will the government act to make your salary last longer? We know that there is a dogma: the government does not want to move in wages. A mistake! A brutal mistake. A mistake that costs everyone at the end of the month and costs even more when we know that the increase in interest rates will lead to an increase in the main expenditure of families, which is the cost of credit to housing. So if the government does not move in wages, it is leaving people even more fragile in this economic dispute. But you're going to move into business? How, when and where? Mr. Minister, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, we have until the end of this debate to know how, when and where. Is it to take the government's promise seriously? Do you recognize the government, after all, that there are excessive profits in the 750 million EDP, in the 565 million Galp, in the 490 million Pingo Doce? Do you recognise, for example, that there are cartels in hypermarkets in Portugal and that people are being stolen, when they go to the hypermarket, because of that cartel? We know that the right, about this, nothing says: wash your hands and say it's competition. And if competition strikes people every day at the supermarket, which is fucked up, it's competition. [[Congratulations from BE.]] We know that it is the competition — they accept — that leads to the cartelization of fuel prices, but if this attacks people on each way to the gas pump, well, it is competition. That's what the right says. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] We know that competition for them is more relevant than people's wages. But what about the government? Will this immorality, this wage attack, deserve any answer? I believe that this is the debate we should have until the end of this Government Programme. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u94	The honourable Member has a request for clarification from Mr Luís Soares of the Socialist Party, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u95	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. Member of the Left Block,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u96	Filipe Soares!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u97	...I don't think there's any way to deny that today's reality changed from what we had a year ago. I think it would be intellectually dishonest not to admit that she has changed. But it will also be intellectually dishonest not to admit that Mr. Prime Minister, when yesterday he brought a set of measures to combat the inflationary tension we live in, he did it recognizing that reality has changed. But, Mr President, I would like to say that what we are discussing today in this House is the government programme for four years. It is true that the moment we are living today will condition what will happen in the next four years, but what we are discussing is a four-and-a-half-year programme. What would the Socialist Party government say if we were to discuss here today just what we think about this moment of global emergency? Yes, for this moment of global emergency. In fact, if there is a good feature of the Socialist Party's Government in the last six years, accompanied at some times by the Left Block, it is the ability to look at the tree at every moment, but also for the forest. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why, Mr President, when we were living a moment of crisis and of the need for budgetary stabilization in the country, of the need for stabilization of the banking system, the Socialist Party has never stopped looking at the great forest which was the need to recover income, to bet on the country's social cohesion, to make progress, to grow the country, to grow Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u98	So cliché!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u99	That is what we are doing here today, Mr President: to present proposals that will enable us to respond to the country's effective needs in the face of this global crisis, but also to look at the great forest, to the great needs of the country, to make the country continue to grow, to recover income and to move forward Portugal. I wanted to leave you a question to finish. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, at the great moment of emergency that the country lived in 2020 and 2021, with the great global pandemic, the great pandemic and its effects here, in the Portuguese economy, the Portuguese knew that they could not count on the Left Block. They left the Portuguese and the country behind the need to fight one of the biggest pandemics. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u100	You came back with elections, after the Portuguese said they wanted a large, stable majority, I ask: is the Left Block available for now, again, to continue to build a solution, to move the country forward with the Socialist Party? That's the question I'm leaving. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u101	To reply, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u102	Mr President, Mr Luís Soares, in the beaty expression of the tree and the forest, I must say that the tree, in this image, is the national minimum wage, which, for the first time in several years, grows below what would be necessary to cover inflation. So this is an increase that means loss of purchasing power. But the forest is that the vast majority of all other wages grow much less than would be necessary to cover inflation. On this problem of tree and forest, the only thing Mr. Prime Minister said yesterday was that we can't touch wages, because that will increase inflation. It's a mistake. It's a mistake because every passing month wages lose value. Mr Prime Minister said that this is temporary, but Mr Economics now said that perhaps this energy crisis is the same as that of the 1970s, which was far from temporary. So the question that I put to you is this: what is the basis for the government's "endurance"? The people "hold up" an inflation for two months, three months, four months, one year, 5 %, 6 %, 7 %... "hold up" until? It is that the immobilism of the Socialist Party leaves permanent marks in the loss of purchasing power of families and, from this point of view, I have not heard a word of Mr. But now I have left a challenge and the honourable Member, being a supporter of the government party, should also have responded to this challenge. Do you recognise that there are, in fact, unfair profits in society, economic sectors that are protected by government action and often by the action of the law? Will these abusive profits have an action by the government, by the Socialist Party? Will you accept, for example, tax the abusive profits of Galp, EDP — to quote the energy sector — the Pink Doce or the Continent — to quote the hypermarket sector — or will you accept that these sectors always live on top of the country's sacrifices? I just wish I had listened, and I did not hear the answer to this question from the Socialist Party. by the government, we heard a great « nil ». We hope that, until the end of this debate of the Government Programme, there will be some answer. Otherwise, to be silent, Mr, is to consent to the great theft that these large groups are doing to the country, and that is what we do not agree to. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u103	For an intervention, you have the floor, on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mrs Maria Antónia de Almeida Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u104	Mr President, my first words are for you: I wish you the greatest success in the functions you have recently begun, because we know that your success will also be the success of all Members. Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Starting a new government cycle in this way, present, is already a cause for joy and a good indicator of the evolution we are living in. Moreover, Portugal today has a majority capable of generating genuine political stability, has also a credible and competent government and needs serious and responsible governance. That's what we expect and are confident. Because of happy coincidence, the World Health Day was marked yesterday. When we think of the value of health as highly invaluable, we also think of all those who daily struggle to achieve a better health condition and a life with greater quality, longevity and freedom from disease. We think of health professionals for their dedication and commitment. We think of all the people who suffer from a condition that was imposed on them without any prior notice. We live in a world of uncertainties and therefore it is so necessary to anticipate scenarios and schedule the future. The Government Programme, which we are discussing today, is the reflection of the long work of those who are focused on solving the problems of Portugal and Portuguese. We have a government aware of what is to be done in the health sector and that it has an ambitious strategy and project, always with people at the heart of the decision. It aims to strengthen the National Health Service, with a strong commitment to health promotion, from then on with health in all policies, with cross-sectional interventions aimed at improving the social determinants of health. The emergency in public health has gained a new importance and we all learn from the pandemic we still live in. We need to continue to build a National Health Service capable of fulfilling its mission to protect, promote health and prevent the disease of all, from birth to the end of their lives. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The priorities are clearly defined. It is necessary to recover the care activity of the National Health Service in order to respond to non-COVID patients and to accompany post-COVID patients. It is necessary to improve access to health care and increase the number of family physicians, improving the conditions of career attractiveness, especially in some more deprived regions. In fact, despite the increase in the number of family physicians and nurses due to the retirement of many, the increase in the number of enrolled in the National Health Service, especially since the beginning of the pandemic, perhaps due to vaccination, did not allow us to meet the goal we had set. It is necessary to generalize the model of family health units, ensuring that they cover 80% of the population in this legislation. It is necessary to guarantee 30 new mobile health units in the interior and low density regions. It is necessary to approach the National Health Service of citizens. It is necessary to improve the response to the needs of the population by extending it, acting among the different levels of care. And it is necessary to make partnerships within the system whenever possible, taking advantage of the installed capacity, because, Mr and Mr. Members, of course, there is no room for prejudice here, but for political options. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There are several priorities. I have highlighted those which I consider pressing. If the difficulties of the last two years made us realize the central role of the National Health Service in combating pandemics, they also revealed new and unsuspecting SNS capabilities to renew, reorganize, mobilize the technical capabilities and inexhaustible dedication of their professionals. This is the basis for the fundamental right to health, which the Constitution enshrines and the Portuguese require, to be improved. We want better National Health Service, more equal access to health, better quality of life for Portuguese. That is why the Government Programme points out. We have an inclusive government that will leave no one behind. We will be here to help, monitor, make the laws that Portugal needs, and the Portuguese people will be able to examine us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u105	There is no request for clarification, so I give the floor to Mr Rui Tavares of the Free.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Dear Colleagues : I wanted to start by remembering that today we are on the International Day of Gypsy People, this being the longest ethnic minority community in our country. I have seen, in the historical archives of this country, the laws that prevented them from staying more than three days in each city, and I remember them at a time when in this Parliament the heirs of this exclusion and prejudice. They are to welcome the social inclusion measures of the Government's Programme, and we must all be involved in including all the people who are part of our national community, starting with our Gypsies. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] We could have had this debate that we had here for 300 years. Does it have very simple terms: cheap labour or high value added? As extraordinary as it may seem to us, systematically, secularly, the choice was made: cheap labour, because, for a long time, it was easier, because it was more competitive, because it created an illusory wealth—as happened with the cheapest labour force that existed, that of slavery, that sustained the economic model of the imperial cycle in this country. The cheap workforce allowed to buy the products that, yes, had true value added and incorporation of complexity, technology, study and knowledge that others produced. But, as incredible as it may seem, this model was still the model discussed in our country, when we heard that the important thing — which was really important — was to lower the unit costs of work. And we still have here, in the Hemicycle, three parties that, in any way or other, are heirs, even orphans, of Passos Rabbit, who proposes this way. Our alternative route is very simple: less Rabbit Steps, more Manuel Steps. The first Government that had been of plural and convergent left in this country was what made an investment in high schools, conservatories, libraries. It has only run nine months, but many of these institutions are the ones we use today. Therefore, the appreciation of human capital is the most important of the infrastructure we can leave to our country. And there are questions we have to ask. Is Mr. Minister of Economy willing to invest, as in Spain, in a project so that companies can experience the week of four days and is it possible that this project can be evaluated? The Minister of Education is available to study the transition of the 12. the year for a zero year university to universalize university in our country? Are we prepared to do something so that the 80% of new jobs that are created — almost all of them green receipts — do not have to spend all the time being their own accountants, lawyers and collectors and can share efforts and costs and thus value their work? These are the questions of the future. And when Mr Economics tells us that the first thing he wants to do with the sea is to know him, then, Minister, another reason for the sea to be in the Ministry of the Environment, because one thing is to know the seabed to study it, another thing is to know him to extract manganese. That is to say, to return to extractivism, which was precisely one of the problems of our economic model. There is a future in the sea, yes, and we do not deny it. But we will not repeat the same mistakes we repeated on earth and therefore the sea should be in the Ministry of the Environment. I didn't want to finish, dear colleagues, without mentioning something that surprised me yesterday. Yesterday we spoke a dozen times in Europe — I told them almost all — 10 of which to mention that Mr. Prime Minister would go to a position in Brussels and the other 2 to talk about money from Europe. I don't want to shock anyone, but you can talk about Europe without talking about charges and money. We can talk about Europe by talking about fundamental values and rights. You can even make history of Europe on the four walls of this Parliament. And if you don't believe it, let's do the test. Mr. Prime Minister, this week his Hungarian counterpart, Viktor Orbán, declared that he was willing to buy gas in Russian rubles and that he was willing to veto measures of gas and oil sanctions to Russia. This is called to undermine the European Union inside. We already know — we have this difference — that Mr Prime Minister is not in favour of using budgetary measures to punish the deviations of the rule of law in Hungary. But then I do not want to convince you of my position, I want to convince you of yours: are you finally willing to do anything at the European Council? Using Article 7. and to initiate the procedure which at the European Council may end the suspension of the vote of Hungary? If you tell us here that yes, that will make history in Europe. It will come out of the walls of this Parliament and it will be a matter all over the world. If you tell us no, that means that the European Council is still unwilling to make even the sacrifice of confronting its own to help those who are now suffering from the invasion of Russia in Ukraine. The ball's on your side. It's your choice.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u107	Mr Rui Tavares has a request for clarification from the Socialist Party, which I am sure will give you one minute of your time to answer. Then you have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mrs Rosário Gambôa.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u108	I congratulate Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr President. Members of the Government, the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Referring to you, Mr Rui Tavares, it is with great pleasure that we have listened to you and I have to tell you that, in fact, we share several problems and we also share several causes. And surely the cause against xenophobia, the cause of Europe, the cause of wages, of sustainability, which it brought here today, are causes that we follow, which we adhere to and on which we have prospects. Obviously, within our healthy differences, we do not always share the solutions, but above all it is important to note that we share something very important for democracy: we share the processes, but the methods are never neutral in any situation, and much less in democracy. And that's an important reference. Mr President, yesterday we had a fantastic speech from our Mr Luís Capoulas Santos, who told us about Europe. He spoke of Europe of values, of the rule of law. And the rule of law Europe is not exclusively Europe of Community offices and funds. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Free has an expression that I find very interesting, which is the question of the low wage trap. I would like to tell you that there is nothing on the Socialist Party's side that opposes the rise of wages—on the contrary, there are proposals, in relation to the previous legislation, to raise the minimum wage and also the average wage—and it is only possible to do so through a set of cross-cutting and sectoral policies, which have been part of the Socialist Party's course. It's not possible otherwise. But I would also like to tell you that this is done in the context of a knowledge economy. The Free, whose programme I know well, has great considerations about the knowledge economy. We too, and already before that. And, as Mr President-in-Office of the Council has just said, in our view of the knowledge economy, it is not merely an instrumentation in the strict sense of the term. It is about using resources, making knowledge at the service of a much more competitive, value-added economy, which generates employment, which generates social sustainability, which generates sustainability for families, which generates sustainability for the younger population. And this, Mr President, has long been a vision of the Socialist Party, which is now reinforced in this programme, which is currently under discussion. So I'd like, in the question I'm going to ask you, to draw your attention to something someone said today. In fact, there is a metaphor here that may already be a little tired, but it is relevant: it is not enough to look at the tree, it is necessary to look at the forest. And I think that, often within the perspective of the Free, there is a fast reading, as if growth could be made by disruptive leaps. In the Socialist Party, we believe, contrary, that good policies, when sustainable, are not imposed from top to bottom. These are policies that, to be sustained, are built in consultation, in participation, and that is the true meaning of democracy. We understand — and I wonder whether it is available to adjust to the present time, but without losing the direction, as it was said yesterday — that it is necessary to have a strong, continuous sustainability, dialogue with the social partners, in the construction of policies, whether they are environmental, whether they are wages, whether they are education, because that is our way of being. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u109	Mr Rui Tavares has 72 seconds to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u110	Mr President, I use only the 12 seconds that the Free has conquered alone, without needing to depend on anyone else. Madam Member, we are in common affairs together, but it is your party that is in the government and that needs to be consistent, asking the Prime Minister to use Article 7. the European Council in relation to the Government of Hungary or Article 158. the Court of Justice of the European Union also with regard to the same Government. Put the words together.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u111	Thank you very much, Mr President, with a compliment on the concision. I now give the floor to Mr Duarte Cordeiro, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u112	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Meeting climate change and ensuring a fair transition is one of the strategic challenges of the Government Programme. These objectives were of particular relevance in the last legislature and we will now have to give them continuity, with enhanced energy, knowing that the next few years will be decisive in the face of the climate emergency. In 2019, the government proposed closing coal power stations by 2023. This goal was anticipated in two years. We have been the fourth country in Europe to do so, but the second country which does not produce electricity from nuclear power has achieved this. The Government was committed to increasing the share of renewables in electricity production by 80 % by 2030. With the renewable production projects right now on the table, we believe that this goal will be achieved in 2026, anticipating our goal in four years. They assumed the socialist governments led by Prime Minister Antonio Costa that would increase the supply and support the demand for collective transport, a part of which the right that preceded us wanted to privatize. For between 2015 and 2019 the use of collective transport increased by 23 %. The priority was taken to transform the landscape and the rural spaces, to have a more resilient forest. of the 20 landscape reorganization and management programs considered necessary to operate this transformation, are ongoing 12 and, although the establishment of 60 integrated landscape management areas had been planned, 70 were approved under the Recovery and Resilience Plan. That said, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is a path made in the previous Parliament with objectives met and exceeded, which have enabled the Portuguese to anticipate environmental and economic benefits. It is therefore with conviction that I affirm our commitment and commitment strengthened to meet the challenges that we will face in this legislature. At the top of our priorities is the response to the energy crisis. We don't want any answer, but one that narrows the limits of our natural system. Therefore, we do not intend to reactivate coal plants, which so many times insist that we consider them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These defenders of a dependent economy and a delayed decarbonisation do not think of the absurd price that electricity would achieve in view of its production costs and do not consider the lack of security that would represent the dependence of a market, that of coal, dominated by Russia. Our response to the energy crisis therefore assumes other contours: firstly, to negotiate mechanisms that enable us to turn off the price of electricity from the natural gas price; secondly, to accelerate, without reducing environmental controls, projects of renewable sources, particularly from solar and wind energy, by enabling us to save water and gain greater autonomy in the face of fossil fuels; thirdly, to create cushions to reduce the price among consumers, domestic and industrial; fourthly, to strengthen the diversification of energy suppliers, to increase connections, avoiding Russia's dependency trap and to wage our sovereignty and progressive autonomy. In addition, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, our commitment to renewables is sustainability. by accelerating these projects, we are defending and safeguarding our country, Portuguese, economy and industry. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, published this week, encourages us to act quickly: mobility and cities need to be decarbonized; industry must be reinvented; it is urgent to make the energy transition, placing on renewable energies and gases; it is imperative to safeguard biodiversity and ecosystem services; it is unacceptable to preserve the rural world and balance of our forests. According to the same report, greenhouse gas emissions increased between 2010 and 2019 to the highest levels in human history. The United Nations experts tell us that we have to mitigate climate change and adapt to a world where the risks of climate change are rising. Climate change is not something we have observed from the past, it is our present. As the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Antonio Guterres, said, and I quote, « climate change is the greatest threat to human security and sustainable development ». Portugal has met and corresponded to these challenges. Our greenhouse gas emissions decreased by 32 % compared to 2005, and we reached 34 % of the incorporation of renewable energy into gross final energy consumption. Now we want to increase this share of renewables to 47% by 2030. It is a performance that corresponds to the ambition we have always demonstrated. We were the first country in the world to commit to the goal of being carbon neutral by 2050 and we have an ambitious roadmap for carbon neutrality that draws us a collective path. Our Landscape Transformation Programme requires an effort to reorganize low-density territories. We approved the European Climate Law during the six months of our Presidency, extending to the Union the objectives we had proposed. And we have our own climate law, approved in this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I remember: 37 % of Portugal's Recovery and Resilience Plan is affected by climate change. This Government Programme values this heritage and has the ambition of enriching it. To achieve carbon neutrality in Portugal, we need to reduce our emissions by more than 85 % up to 2050, and strengthen our carbon sequestration capacity by using soil and forests up to 13 million tons of carbon per year. By 2030, we want to reduce greenhouse gases by 55 %, and in the transport sector we intend to reduce emissions by 40 %. For all this, we are committed to electrifying mobility, promoting active mobility and investing in public transport, increasing its supply and attractiveness. Therefore, we will strengthen our energy production capacity from renewable sources, increasing our energy sovereignty and ensuring the cheapest energy sources. Therefore, we will continue to protect our watercourses, encourage moderate and regenerating use of water and make the investments necessary to ensure it with quality in the parcels of our territory where it is scarce. Therefore, we will continue to support municipalities in strengthening their capacity to collect and value waste, promoting resource regeneration policies. So, and finally, but no less important, biodiversity and forest. These are topics to which we will give particular importance in this new political cycle. It is true that Portugal has never been as well equipped as today to make the change in low density territories. We know how much ecosystem services provide us with the air we breathe and the water we need. We have programmes that allow us to economically value our natural capital and a strategy for sustainable and circular bio-economics. We have the financial instruments that allow us, in the long term, to convert our territory. For the first time in many years, we want to increase protected areas and we are re-equiring services. For the first time, we established collaborative work models that allow populations of low density territories to participate in decisions about their future. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u113	In order to continue this work, nature conservation and biodiversity are intended for this year in the Environmental Fund, EUR 19 million, which is the highest value ever allocated to these areas. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These EUR 19 million add to the appropriation of the REACH-EU ( Recovery Assistance for Cohesion and the Territories of Europe) initiative a total of EUR 45 million. They are essential funds for the re-arboration of green spaces, for the creation of shadow islands, for the modernization and optimization of living forest habitats, for the benefit of natural parks and national forests and for actions to combat desertification, through the re-arborization and actions that promote the increase of carbon and nutrients in the soil. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Ministry of Environment and Climate Action will enhance cooperation between all actors and entities, whether municipalities, environmental associations or businesses, by collaboratively seeking to strengthen responses and capacity to meet the challenges. This transition will require decision-making capacity, but that does not mean hearing who is affected or even who opposes or contests a change. We will not close any doors, because the doors want to open. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u114	Nine Members have signed up to request clarifications. Members, to whom the Minister will answer in blocks of three. For the first request for clarification, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister of Environment and Climate Action, in the face of the profound uncertainties that developments in the international situation have brought about, there are a set of responses and solutions that are indispensable to the country, which, if they are no longer in the PS Election Programme, have not been put in the Government Programme. In almost all areas, the Government has chosen to leave everything in it and it is particularly significant that in the energy sector the Government programme has not introduced a measure on energy tariffs, electricity, gas, fuels. In the fiscal component, Mr Prime Minister announced yesterday a reduction in the ISP — as the CFP had already put forward proposals for double taxation and additional tax — but if it has opened up for tax amendments, we ask: do you have the political courage to face great interests and to intervene on margins and prices, using legal instruments at your disposal and others that are created to deal with these increases? It is that the Government has so far ignored the problem of the international quote of fuels, fixed by the oil cartel, which is at the base of speculation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u116	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u117	So far, nothing has been done with the "margins law" and we well know that ERSE (Energy Services Regulatory Entity) has protracted this process. But the truth is, when gasoline and diesel are sold above 2 €/l, a value much higher than it was sold when oil reached its historical peak, that means that there are those who are winning, and much, with these speculative increases. The CFP has put forward proposals for an urgent response. Using the Government's own proposal, we propose that the gross margins of refining, which explain these increases, should be fixed, removing the speculative component of the price formation mechanism. We propose to tax the profits of large oil, directing this tax revenue to a reduction of the price through the ISP, and we again place on the table the reduction of VAT on electricity and gas to its minimum rate, taxing energy as essential as it is.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u118	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u119	On the other hand, the PS Government's options do not point to a policy that ensures national development, ensuring public control of strategic sectors, and that of energy is an example of this. Will the government continue to put their heads on the sand with respect to tariffs, margins, prices? Do you have anything to say? It is that, looking at the Government Programme, there is a deafening silence about this problem that affects the Portuguese people so much. It is on these issues that it is important for the Minister to answer. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u120	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u121	Mr President, Minister, on climate change, he called for the report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, but he forgot to mention one aspect, one dimension: that is that we are on the road to climate disaster, and that part of that responsibility is that governments have been acting, above all, contrary to the commitments that should be made and to push in time the goals of economic decarbonisation. Nor can we, of course, stop worrying about the union of the Ministry of the Environment with energy. Will the Minister or will he be in a position to assure us that the environmental policy of conservation of nature and climate policy will not continue to be hostage to economic interests, which have so far marked and called into question the safeguarding of the common good? It is that we need to guarantee energy independence — we could no longer agree — but that cannot mean destroying protected areas, forest areas, agricultural areas. We all bear in mind what happened in the Heritage of the Bella Tower, in the Azambuja, or in the Cerceral do Alentejo, in which the survival and food of small farmers were called into question. We cannot continue to be dependent on the outside, but the strategy cannot effectively be to question natural goods. With regard to energy autonomy, the recent change in legislation for energy communities has been a positive step, but we must go further, we must ensure that, in Portugal, we stop dying cold in the dwellings. So I ask the Minister : when is a policy that directly supports the 2 million people who in Portugal have no money to heat up their homes? As regards transport and energy, we cannot understand what happened through the silence: the carbon rate for maritime, inland and air transport is now in favour of port administrations, thus distorting a port which was born through the NAP initiative in Parliament within the framework of the State budget for 2021. This port should be used for public transport rather than port administrations. Finally, Mr Minister, we do not find in the Government's programme a single reference to animal protection and at the moment we have not only to extend the criminalization of ill-treatment, but also to support families that have pets, creating veterinary hospitals. In addition, we have to put an end to anachronistic activities, such as Tauromachia, in our country. We well know that your colleague on board Adam and Silva believes that this should not, in fact, be a civil issue. Question : When will the government have the courage to face this lobby? It is that it is EUR 16 million for bullfighting every year, and for animal protection and not a word.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u122	To request clarification, Mr Hugo Pires of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u123	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, we have heard several speeches in this House, especially on environmental matters, which are embezzled speeches, expenses and which do not bring any novelty to the debate. I dare say that some of the parties who spoke today have not read the Government Programme, or have read it, but have paid very little attention, preferring to come here to throw soundbits, in a rhetorical exercise with no added value. on our part, on the side of the Socialist Party, we will be here, without the slightest tibias or the slightest hesitation, to do what we have to do, to combat climate change with renewed energy and with the ambition to continue to improve and transform Portugal. We are starting, with this debate, for a new cycle. A new cycle for the government, a new cycle for Parliament, a new cycle for the Portuguese. A cycle that starts very hard, with a very difficult environment: a war, a pandemic from which we are still going out and an energy crisis. There is an energy crisis to which urgent, effective and short-term responses must be given — which, yesterday, Mr Prime Minister has already announced — but which also requires structural responses which move forward towards the energy transition, which take advantage of our natural resources for energy production, which ensure our energy security, which promote the reduction of electricity prices and which at the same time reduce carbon emissions, to move towards carbon neutrality. Mr. Minister of Environment and Climate Action, Portugal has been very successful in recent times in solar auctions and, above all, in environmental policy and in renewables. In addition, Portugal anticipated in five years the 2030 targets with regard to the injection of renewables into the network.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u124	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u125	this week, we were aware of another success of a solar auction for a floating wind and solar project. The questions I wanted to ask you, very simple, are the following: what are the gains for the final consumers regarding these wind and solar floating power auction projects? What do consumers gain from these auctions? And what are the next energy production projects, particularly offshore energy? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u126	In reply, Mr Minister for Environment and Energy has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u127	Mr President, I am grateful for the questions that have been put to me. I want to begin by saying that there is a reason for Portugal to be from countries that have had less pressure on energy price inflation for consumers: it is that the work that has been done to protect the energy price for consumers has not begun now, with the crisis in Russia. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] All the work that has been done in recent years — and I am referring again, as I have had the opportunity to say in my speech, that I not only share the pride of this path as I objectively intend to strengthen our commitment to the path we have defined — has allowed, among other things, to work at various levels. It allowed us to extend the social tariff and allowed us to bet on the launch of a set of electrical production by renewable sources, which allowed us to have low rates. As has been said here, and well, by Mr Hugo Pires, the auction of floating solar was an innovation, a novelty launched by the government. It was a success and allowed to hit a record by registering, for the third consecutive time, the lowest energy price worldwide.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u128	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u129	But that's not the point!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u130	And you know what this means, Mr Bruno Dias? It means profits for consumers, because when these gains were recorded, it was the electricity consumers who benefited from them, in about EUR 114 million, in the tariff. It is a concrete gain, which removes pressure for what might come to be the review of the tariff. in the same way, this happened in the auctions we had in 2019, with effective gains of about 600 million euros, or even in the 2020 auctions, with gains of about 559 million euros, in a total of 1, 3 billion euros from the point of view of gains. Therefore, the road is not an opposition between the value of renewable energy and prices. Today, we have the opportunity to combine security, sustainability and energy savings. Look closely at everything that has been done in the last government and want to value this government and think that it does not mean saving consumers is not looking at all the policy and all the gains we have with these same policies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So our way is to continue. The same is true for wind farms, whose production capacity we have to increase, and the same could be said of the price of fuels, because, indeed, we have adopted the following set of policies: the suspension of the carbon rate — the update of which we had suspended until 30 June — Mr. Prime Minister has announced now that it will continue until the end of the year; a mechanism for automatic compensation of the rise of VAT at the price of fuels, via the ISP; the 'AUTOVoucher', which we have already had the opportunity to strengthen; and also the law on margins, which the honourable Member has referred to and we hope that it will be possible to operate from 23 May, because it is now being completed, particularly by the regulator. Therefore, there is a very significant set of measures that aim to benefit and protect consumers. The path we want to follow is this, a path of appreciation and articulation of all policies that allow us to realize, on the one hand, that energy is sustainability and, on the other, that there is a compatibility between the goals we want to achieve and the energy policy objectives that the country has promoted. Then I would also like to say to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real that there is no ministry resonating with economic interests. We will defend environmental interests and this is also, in many respects, to defend the sustainability and energy security of the country. I would also like to say to you, Mrs Commissioner, that if you have not seen any reference to animal protection, it has been for lack of attention, because the commitment we have made with the NAP in the last legislature, as regards the extension of the law on the criminalization of animal abuse is not only in our Programme as it is, of course, a matter which we assume during the election campaign would be a commitment from this government and of course a compromise for the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would therefore like to assure you that this has always been a compromise. Regardless of my current duties, I have had the opportunity to share with Mr. Prime Minister a long history of progress in the protection of animal welfare and I certainly hope to continue to strengthen this agenda, now in the Ministry of Environment and Climate Action. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u131	Thank you very much, Minister for the Environment and Climate Action — and that is how I have corrected my recent time. We continue with the requests for clarification, now giving the floor to Mr Bruno Coimbra's PSD Member. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister, I would obviously like to begin by congratulating you, thanking you for your presentation and wishing you success in the new functions, which is very important, even because you have a lot of work ahead of you and, contrary to what you said, you have a lot of time to recover. We are going to do a very assertive scrutiny of their government action, even because the governance that preceded it was marked by the absence of reforms, short measures and a divergence between the government's narrative and reality. And today's programme, unfortunately, follows in the same direction. In the face of the energy crisis, we have announcements, ad hoc measures, but there is no overall plan. In fact, they now seem more concerned about embracing the Spanish Podemos proposals than they do about being focused on Portuguese, who no longer know what they are going to do to pay for their electricity and fuel accounts.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u133	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u134	Energy interconnections, which were abandoned by VV. For example, they now return to the Programme, but without saying what will be done and how. They speak in more than 2 GW of solar energy, but they have not even managed to solve the strangulations on the network and there are still panels of successive auctions to install. On the waste, his words do not remove the widespread failure of goals or chaos that has settled in the sector and, as regards contaminated soils, after six years of apathy and numerous alerts, his predecessor came to this House in May last year, to apologize and say that in two months everything would be resolved. Well, seven months have passed until the dissolution of the Assembly of the Republic, nothing has been done and there is nothing in the Government Programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u135	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u136	Continuing on the theme of water—or the lack of it! — its Government Programme refers to the drought of 2017, olympically ignoring the situation we are going through. The list continues — so time would allow us to preserve nature and ecosystems, in which it was the government itself that recognized the failure, in air quality or even in noise, in which it is Brussels that alerts us and places us in court, and, Minister, it is not worth talking about in the removal of asbestos from schools, in the grid of electric charges or even in green taxation, that they have killed and used only to fatten the Environment Fund and that now, perhaps imbued with this pascal spirit, they say they want to resuscitate.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u137	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u138	There are also risks and problems in the government's organics, because joining folders as dense as Environment and Energy under the care of a Secretary of State who has always despised the environment and the opinion of the people in the cases of lithium and mining leaves nothing good in the open. Don't wish anything good. And since we speak in lithium, this has also disappeared from the Government Programme, but we know how they count on it and how they want to do it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u139	He's hiding!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u140	Therefore, Minister, what is really important to know is whether this Programme is to do or whether it is just to say and whether your arrival even means a change in the Ministry. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u141	To request clarification, on behalf of the Left Block, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u142	Mr President, Minister, speaking in economic interests, please tell us whether EDP has already paid or not the tax on the sale of dams to Engie and is not mistaken on this matter. To date, the government has not touched a finger on EDP's millionaire incomes. The drop in the price of gas is going to be a tariff deficit and will be paid by consumers. The dams of EDP and other companies are paid at a price of four times that of 2020. EDP will distribute EUR 750 million while profiting from rising energy prices for those who need to heat up their home and cannot. So, Minister, you have to tell us: will you or will you not create a tax on EDP's extraordinary profits? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u143	To request clarification, Mr Filipe Melo has the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u144	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the war context that we are going through and the consequent energy crisis, the priorities have changed, or should have been changed, but the Government's programme that you are part of remains the same. The priorities of our country and Europe should no longer be the climate or digital transition, but rather the energy and water sovereignty. The government seems to think that war in Ukraine is an isolated event in time and does not have a robust strategy to respond to war and post-war. It is vague and absent from executive action measures directed to this reality. The government should think macro rather than with audacious measures, in the taste of the calendar and the political agendas that characterize it. I would leave you two very brief questions, Minister. First, in view of the instability we live in the energy sector, does this government expect political revisionism and the redefinition of the priorities of the plans, particularly those related to the energy transition, to achieve its energy independence? Is this a top priority political objective? He also said recently that the work of this guardianship is not now, that it has already been done by previous socialist governments. So with regard to the said implementation of the ECO.AP 2030 ( Resource Efficiency Programme in Public Administration ), I ask the Minister what results have been achieved so far and what methodology is now used by you in the monitoring of energy and water consumption in such buildings managed by the central administration. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u145	To reply, Mr President, the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u146	Mr President, I would like to thank you for the questions that have been put to me. Mr Bruno Coimbra, thank you very much, I am also looking forward to our debates — it will not be possible to do all of them today, despite the comprehensive list of issues, and the contributions that the PSD has on this matter. I do not have a view of the policy in which there is no contribution from the parties, except from the one that supports the government, especially in a matter which is so dear to us all. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I have had the opportunity to read the PSD Election Program and there are good contributions, valid contributions, and I also look forward to those times when the PSD can contribute to the appreciation of our country's environmental policy. I would also like to tell you that the success we have had on the floating solar this week tells us that we obviously have a path ahead, which allows us to expand and achieve the objectives of the solar we have in our electoral programme. There's nothing that leads us to believe that we can't do it. Even so, yesterday, Mr. Prime Minister announced that we are working on mechanisms to speed up the licensing process of photovoltaic panels. For what? Exactly in order to accelerate the strategy with regard to solar installation. With regard to the issue of drought management, with the rains we had in March, fortunately, we have a little better situation today. We are no longer in extreme drought, but we have a long way ahead. We have a way of working on efficiency in water consumption, whether domestically or from the point of view of agriculture, and that is obviously something I have to do with my government colleague. We have a way of doing this, particularly as far as it is concerned — and it is in the Government's programme — on the issue of water plans. We have to adopt, especially in regions that have been most affected by drought, and we have all a work of efficiency of the network's own structure and of the use of our waste water, of our rainwaters, as well as of innovation plans, particularly in the desalination projects we have in the Algarve, which, if they run well, will allow us to expand this type of new solutions that enable us to draw pressure on the current system. But I also want to give you, in a very concrete way, an answer to the question, which I am grateful for, about the organics of the Ministry of Environment and Climate Action, which already had the environment and energy. Therefore, somehow, this compatibility already existed. On the concerns that have existed and that you have expressed, I would also like to make it clear that within the Ministry we will be able to separate each other's responsibilities. The business part of the State will be with Mr. Secretary of State for Environment and Energy, the part of water resources will be with Mr. Secretary of State for Nature Conservation and I myself will keep environmental licences. thus, all concerns that may exist in this area are safeguarded, making us move forward in this regard. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That should not even be a matter for us to worry about, because, in the same way that these skills already existed in the past, we will be able to deal with them in the future. I want to make it absolutely clear that this Ministry is really to do, not just to say. Mrs Mariana Mortágua, I would like to thank you for your question, but I must first say that I am not a Minister of Finance, so you should address to the Minister of Finance some of the questions you have asked me. Secondly, the mechanism we are negotiating with Spain, which was obviously the result of a victory of the Prime Minister and the Portuguese Government at the last European Council, to isolate the Iberian Peninsula from the pressure of the price of gas in relation to the price of electricity in any way, shares the gains that you want to pay. So what we're doing is we're taking the system's gains and bearing lower rates for consumers. Consumers will benefit from the lowest rate of gas, because if we set a lower rate of gas we will be setting a lower rate of electricity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u147	And who pays?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u148	We now have a more secure system than the rest of Europe, and that is why we have lower inflationary pressure on the price of electricity. Why? Because, fortunately, we have many companies that have medium- and long-term contracts and we have regulated tariffs for consumers. We have now had a 3 % increase. If we could achieve that as we are negotiating with the European Commission, we could even reduce the reversal of the increase that we have now had in the electricity tariff for consumers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, if this is not a profit for consumers, then I do not know what will be gained for consumers, Mrs Deputies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We often have to find the best solutions, which are those that enable us to respond to the problem, to protect consumers — I agree — but at the same time to protect the market, i.e. to protect companies in virtuous solutions that we and the European Commission are able to make progress in the objective we have: to isolate and protect consumers and companies from the pressure we are currently having on the gas market. Therefore, in this field, we are united in the same objective and we will obviously, over time, share the solutions as soon as they become clear. With regard to Mr Filipe Melo, I must say that there is a world that separates us because its strategy regarding war is to become more dependent on Russia. [[CH protests.]] Our strategy is to be less dependent on Russia, Mr. He should read very well the Socialist Party's Electoral Programme and the XXIII Constitutional Government Programme. It is very big, I know, but you should try to read it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u149	It's short, I read!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u150	There is at present the ability to combine the country's priorities of greater security and energy sovereignty with the priorities of greater sustainability and better price for consumers. And all this is achieved in a very simple way. You know how? Valuing renewable energies. I will quote a right-wing politician—it will certainly not feel affinities, because he is liberal—which is the German Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u151	Liberal is not right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u152	You will not feel great affinity, I think, because he is liberal, but in some things you must share your thoughts. Mr German Minister for Finance, Liberal Minister, said in a very synthetic way, something that I endorse: « Renewables are at present the energy of freedom. This is what moves the action of this government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH Member's protests Filipe Melo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u153	In order to make requests for clarification, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister, the Programme presented promises to face the challenge of climate change. It reminds us, well, that Portugal is one of the most vulnerable countries in the European Union to climate change and its impacts, which affect us now, with large periods of drought or fire. therefore we strangely look at this Program and realize it's more of the same. It is obvious, Mr Minister, but no substantive action is taken. For example, the Government intends to reduce by 2030 40% of emissions in the transport and mobility sector, but I ask: how does it intend to do so if it does not take any step to strengthen the conditions for access to the social pass, which must be extended throughout the national territory and accompanied by the strengthening of the supply of public road, river and rail transport? The Government recognises that between 2015 and 2019 there was a 23 % increase in demand for public transport — in fact, the Minister referred to it in the intervention he gave — from the adoption of a CFP measure on the social pass. So, is it recognized that this is the most efficient measure in recent decades in the context of the transition to public transport and to the protection of the environment, because it does not advance in the freeness of this pass for all young people up to the age of 18 and why does it not assume the clear objective of taking a path that ensures the freeness of public transport? Mr Minister, I would also like to make a reference to the nature conservation policy. Having been assumed by the former Minister of the Environment that this section is not as necessary, we wonder if the government has not realized that it has to change tactics. Through the Programme presented, it seems to us that it refuses to take measures to strengthen the ICNF (Instituto da Conservação da Nature and Forests), an essential service for the conservation of ecosystems and environmental values, and insists on deresponsibility over protected areas. The government tells us about water resources in its National Strategy for the Rehabilitation of Rios and Ribeiras, but we do not understand how it intends to protect the masses of water without workers to do so, without technical and human means, without an integrated plan and without hydrographic management plans. The Government's programme does not assume the commitment of public water management, which is fundamental to ensuring access to water at affordable prices, bearing in mind here that water is an essential asset to life. The Government insists on making waste a business, not by reverting the privatisation of EGF ( General Development Company ), which meant the degradation of the quality of services, the reduction of investment, attacks on the rights of workers in the sector and the increase in prices for users, all to satisfy the profits of the concessionary company. This way of marketing the environment and nature must also be combated and reversed, but it is clear that this is not an option in the Government Programme. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u155	Mr António Prôa, Member of the PSD, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u156	Mr President, allow me to congratulate you on this first speech after you have returned to Parliament. Mr Minister for the Environment and Climate Action, you have taken on a central portfolio for the future of the country: the Environment. Among the relevant issues is the problem of energy poverty, which takes particular seriousness because it affects about one third of Portuguese. About 3 million Portuguese live in energy poverty and people die every year from excessive cold or heat. This situation is particularly serious in Portugal, which is 4. the European country with the highest rate of energy poverty and was only 19. o in the effort to reduce this serious situation. The high percentage of the elderly population, the electricity costs of the highest in Europe and one of the biggest tax burdens on energy further exacerbate the problem. It also adds the increase in the price of electricity, which is already being felt. Mr Minister, in view of this scenario, the Government's response is clearly insufficient, in time and mode. With regard to rising electricity prices, it announces measures which, contrary to what it wants to believe, will not decrease its cost, but will only mitigate its rise. In other words, the price of electricity in Portugal will continue to rise, exacerbating the problem of energy poverty. The Government also refers to the Sustainable Building Support Programme, which is positive, and even to a “wheat” of millions of PRR, but this initiative does not solve the problem immediately and is far from meeting the needs. In the Government Programme, the issue of energy poverty is referred to the Long Term National Strategy for Combating Energy Poverty 2021 - 2050, which was in public consultation but which, however, remained in the drawer. With this mechanism, the Government intends to take 30 years to address energy poverty. I repeat: 30 years! Mr Minister, are you satisfied with the prospect of taking 30 years to solve the problem of energy poverty in Portugal? Don't you think the needs of 3 million Portuguese deserve more commitment? Can you be of calm consciousness when Portuguese die every year for cold or excessive heat-related causes? Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the drama of energy poverty, which affects almost one third of Portuguese, is one of the most gruesome social inequalities and imposes more ambition, another priority and immediate measures, not at the age of 30. The Government's Programme on Energy Poverty is a Franciscan poverty! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u157	To ask for clarification, Mr Nuno Fazenda of the PS now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u158	Mr President, Minister for the Environment and Climate Action, Portugal has been leading climate action to the international sphere and are the facts and results that demonstrate it. Between 2015 and 2019, we reduced CO2 emissions by 26 %. We have reduced more than in the European context and made it with more economic growth, with growth above the European Union average. That is why Portugal is recognised by the European Commission itself as one of the countries that are in a better position to achieve the targets set for 2030. Despite the good performance of recent years, this is an ongoing challenge and that is precisely why the government is continuing — and well! — putting climate transition at the top of the priorities, with a renewed ambition. And here, as Mr Minister mentioned just now, 37% of the RPP's investment volume is precisely for the climate transition. in this context, there are two major challenges for the protection of the Minister and, indeed, concerning the autonomy and sovereignty of our country: energy and water. On energy, the wager on renewables has been and is a winning bet that has to keep moving forward. As has already been pointed out during this debate, about 60 % of electricity produced in Portugal originates in renewable energy and we have an ambition that by 2026 it is 80 %. This means that we will have greater energy autonomy and lower costs for families and businesses. There is also another very important strategic challenge, that of water, and it is important to continue and strengthen investments in this area. Much has been done about investments in rivers and rivers, in the water cycle, and we still have investments in the PRR and Portugal 2030. This is, as Mr Minister recently pointed out, a strategic challenge. In the last 20 years in Portugal, rainfall has decreased by about 15 % and will continue to decline in the future. Drought in Portugal is not conjuncural, it is structural, and therefore it has to be a strategic design that brings together everyone: public entities, companies, authorities, the agricultural sector — which is responsible for about 70% of water consumption — citizens and, of course, the government, which has placed it as a priority in the Government Programme and in the public policy instruments. It is on this subject that I would like to ask the Minister. What investments are planned in the next cycle of Community funds, notably in Portugal 2030 and the PRR, for better use and more efficient management of water? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u159	To reply, Mr President, the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u160	Mr President, I would like to thank you for the questions that have been put to me. Mrs Diana Ferreira, I would like to tell you that we attach priority to public public transport, to the value of supply and also to the accessibility of transport prices, but it is important to be aware of the point where we are. We had a very significant growth of about 23 % of the number of passengers by 2019 and then we had the pandemic. We haven't recovered the number of passengers we had before the pandemic. At the moment, we have a very significant value inscribed in the PART(Tax Reduction Support Programme in Public Transport) which allows the metropolitan areas to define many of their strategies with regard to tariff policy and supply. We currently have EUR 1 billion in the PRR for programmes relating to the supply of public transport in the metropolitan areas, but not only. Our strategy, from the point of view of transport, is very simple, Mrs Deputies, although we can have different perspectives in the immediate and short term. Before extending the conditions to which you already have transport, the aim of the Government at the moment is to ensure public transport to which you do not have transport. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So, on the one hand, we want to recover the passengers we have lost because of the pandemic—and we have a long job to do! — and, on the other hand, we want to ensure that this cycle of investments we have in front of us is realized to transform, revolutionize the supply of public transport in our country. That's our focus. They do not distinguish us, nor do they separate us from the concept of transport policy, some of the proposals that you have put before us, but it is important to have the priorities defined and we know how to distribute them over time. That is what we are going to do, even though we agree with you, Mrs Deputies, in which it is desirable, in the long term, to continue to have an attractive transport policy, especially for young people, to seduce them into more positive traffic habits for the environment, particularly in urban areas. That is a matter to be discussed in time, but I want our priorities to be absolutely clear. I would like to say to Mr António Prôa — I am delighted to see him now in this circumstance — that the policy to combat energy poverty is made by several strategies and not just one, and we must know once and for all break the dichotomy. A long-term strategy for energy poverty is the same, a long-term strategy for energy poverty. This does not mean that the government does not work in the short term for the answers that are necessary for the families they need. That is why, again, we have been working on reducing the price, particularly the tariff, and we have had the lowest tariff increases for consumers when we compare them with other countries at European level. That's why we extended the social tariff. I must tell you, Mr, that it was certainly not the PSD who cared about the social tariff, because in 2014 there were 47 000 beneficiaries of the social tariff, and in 2022 there were 762 000. In the gas, Mr. Member, in 2014 there were 5000 beneficiaries of the social tariff, and today, in 2022, there are 48 000. Do you know what this is, Mr? There have been changes, in particular from the last government, to extend the social tariff to whom it most needs. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But we don't stay here. Yesterday, Mr Rui Tavares spoke of an important energy efficiency recovery programme, particularly for families. Mr Prime Minister said, well, that we want to have an ambition to be faster in the implementation of that same programme and we are going to make the faster implementation of the energy efficiency support valleys. Once again, it was announced yesterday, and I hope that this is present in the proposal that we will present, which we intend to reduce at the minimum rate, at the reduced rate of VAT, all kinds of equipment that allow any family to be less dependent on gas and with lower energy consumption. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is one of the measures of the emergency package we are going to present. Mr Nuno Fazenda, I fully endorse what you said about the priorities and the objectives we have before us — it would be wrong, if not so. We will also have to have our differences, certainly throughout this legislature, but I would like to reaffirm that, obviously, water is one of the most important priorities that we will have, until, unfortunately, we will have to adapt to the circumstance of having less water available. That is why it is essential to apply what we have in mind with regard to water efficiency plans and to bet on the efficiency of water consumption, either in the domestic context or in agriculture, which is a large consumer of water in our country. It is essential to bet on maintaining balance with regard to water consumption, while safeguarding that human consumption is our priority. And we must continue to have conversations with the city halls, looking for solutions to all places where we obviously have greater problems with drought, bearing in mind that one of the intelligent ways of valuing the resources we have is, for example, the expansion of waste water. This is an intelligent way to take advantage of water that we have for multiple uses, taking pressure on drinking water. I conclude by saying that innovative projects, such as desalination, will also allow us to recover new sources and thus put pressure on the system. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u161	I would like to thank the Minister for Environment and Climate Action for his first greeting in this plenary session. Following the order of speeches, Mr Alexandre Quintanilla now speaks on behalf of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u162	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is normal that at the beginning of any legislature we seek to identify the foundations that help us to trust in a better future. There are several current challenges. In addition to the pandemic, which has not yet ended, climate change, the weakening of employment, economic instability, the attack on equal rights and opportunities and the autocracy that dominate most of the citizens of this planet, we now have war in Ukraine, with the uncertainties and fear associated with it. To this foundation we give the name of knowledge. Why? Because we want to trust that decisions — our decisions and those that govern us in health, energy, social security and the economy — are based on existing knowledge and not on multiple opinions, which, as we know, not only proliferate as they often contradict themselves. [[P.S.'s applause.]] However, we forget that knowledge takes time. And it takes time because it is based on three essential pillars: education, research and innovation. They are pillars that feed each other slowly and never linearly, and require trust, also in democracy itself. It will always be unfinished work, which requires an ongoing bet. Knowledge has as its origin the doubt and its objective will always be to reduce uncertainty. of the answers that accumulate, there are invariably more questions and doubts. COVID-19 is an excellent example of this process, not only in Portugal but in the world. No one should be surprised that certain decisions have to be reviewed regularly. It's always an unfinished job. It is in this context that we have begun this legislature, a legislature that has at its base a very clear vote of confidence in the work that has been done by the Government of António Costa. It is a confidence that was gradually built over six years of governance and that gave continuity to the vision and memory of great socialists, such as Mário Soares and Jorge Sampaio. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is a confidence that has been reinforced during these more than two years of pandemic, not only by the commitment to the systematic refusal of austerity but also by the transparency of the media and the general population. It is a confidence that is reflected in the result revealed in the last Eurobarometer, published at the end of last year, on the 27 countries of the European Union and 11 other countries. The Portuguese are in 1. the place regarding trust and curiosity through knowledge, but also in the ability of this knowledge to solve the challenges we face. No one can doubt this one. the place is the result of ever increasing and continuing investment, over the last six years, in the areas of education, research and innovation, as well as in scientific culture. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today, most Portuguese, including the most qualified of all, trusts in knowledge and trusts that the government will use knowledge in its policies. It took time and will always be an unfinished job. The desire to reach 3 % of GDP invested in research and innovation by 2030 is an old ambition that we are pleased to see now realized in the Government Programme, as well as the law on programming investment in science. As I have already had occasion to say in this forum, it is always when we face great challenges that we realize that the greatest enemy of democracy and knowledge is not uncertainty, it is the lie. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The lie is always assertive and categorical. He never has doubts, because he is based on ignorance. It's easy, it's simple and it explores the fragility of the other. Normally, it hides powerful economic, political and ideological interests and is therefore widely funded, even at the international level. Repeat often the same lie works and insecurity and fear are easy to sell. And perhaps the most serious of all these aspects is that the lie is at the base of autocracy. That is why, Mr. President, Mr. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, promote knowledge in all fields of knowledge will always be the most effective way to fight insecurity, fear and lie. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u163	The following is the speech of the Minister for Labour...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u164	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u165	Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u166	Mr President, the arrival had brought Mr Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro to the Bureau for clarification from Mr Alexandre Quintanilha.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u167	I'm sorry, sir. To request clarification, Mr Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u168	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, other members of the Government, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, before speaking to Mr Alexandre Quintanilla, I wanted to leave this note to Mr Prime Minister : yesterday, I recorded his state of denial, perhaps even a certain hypocrisy. This is to tell you that there is more Lusophony in the coming Parliamentary Group than in many parliamentary groups in this Parliament. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Keep the record. The question I will ask Mr Alexandre Quintanilla is this: how can one speak in a knowledge society, interested in knowledge, when there are fundamental problems in teaching that have been emphasized for decades by the political class? What I mean is that teachers continue to be unauthorized,... [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u169	... emotionally weakened, humiliated, demotivated, insulted, assaulted, depressed. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It is not possible to build a knowledge society with this environment that we have in our schools. Question: Why is there not a single word for combating indiscipline in schools in the Socialist Government programme for this cycle of 2022 to 2026? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u170	I raise the question in another way: why does there continue to be no intransigent defense of the authority of teachers? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u171	And the shock!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u172	Some tabes solve that!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u173	To reply, Mr Alexandre Quintanilla has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u174	Well, sir, I confess that I have some difficulty in finding an answer, because I thought that the domain of the regattas at school and the way the authority is paid... [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] ...it was no longer part of our school experience. [[Protests by CH Member Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro.]] So the only thing I can say is that I hope we don't go back to that. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u175	They're hitting the PS, the PS thanks.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u176	There's a lot of highlights there!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u177	Keep beating hands... when you're alone with a deputy, thank the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u178	This is followed by an intervention by the Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u179	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are presenting the Government's programme in a setting once again challenging, under the weight of a terrible war. But this does not inhibit our permanent determination, quite the contrary. We know—and how we know well! — what are challenges. In the last two years, we have faced the most challenging challenge of our lives, caused by a pandemic. A pandemic that has moved us all and that has needed strong responses from the social state. New answers, never before tested, never before experienced, that required a full reorganization and mobilization of social security and a permanent focus on the protection of citizens, incomes, employment, support for families, businesses and the social sector. In record time, 3 million and a half people were covered by new, different protective mechanisms created according to the new needs that arose. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the results show that this has been a right path. Two years later, with the full impact of the pandemic, we have a minimum historical value of 6 % at the unemployment rate, particularly with the numbers already showing us, by March 2022, once again, the reduction of about 18 000 people enrolled in the IEFP (Employment and Vocational Training Institute) and a record of workers declared to social security, which for the first time reached the number of 4 million and 800 thousand people. Mrs. Members, the pandemic has not prevented us from continuing to move forward with structural reforms in the social state and in employment. We have increased the minimum wage, which, as far as the right is concerned, has not led to an increase in unemployment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the contrary, we have had the greatest number of workers ever to contribute to social security and to become part of the system. We have gained 26 years in the sustainability of social security vis-à-vis 2015, as a result of the capacity to maintain and create jobs, with more than 600 000 new jobs and a 40% increase in declared social security remuneration. Today, we all have more confidence in the public social protection system and, not by chance, the miraculous solutions that seemed unique to the privatization of social security have disappeared from the public discourse. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have mobilized structural investment, with the approval of EUR 250 million of investment in new social equipment, in full pandemic, for 21 000 people. We launched the free of charge of the day care centers. We created the « Pension in Time », in the middle of the pandemic, which now covered 13 000 people, who had their pension allocated on their own day, at a time of disruptive simplification of the system. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have signed the social agreement on training and investment in qualifications. Together we have built the National Strategy for Combating Poverty, focused for the first time on target audiences and with very concrete measures to remove, by 2030, 660 000 people from the risk of poverty or exclusion, including 230 000 workers. Here you are, gentlemen. Members, we live the time of a new cycle, with increased social legitimacy and an express and clear option of the country, made on 30 January, for a framework of stability supported in the values of the social state. The choice of the XXIII Constitutional Government translates this clear option of the country by the path that it places on a growth that can only be inclusive, which assumes the imperative to ensure that all — but all — are part of it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Of course, about demography. in this context, in which it is evident that people are the most valuable resource that any country has and in which the evolution of the demographic pyramid is evident, it is critical to ensure, as Country, that we create the conditions to attract and fix young people. That is why we have taken priority to conclude, finally, the dignified work agenda as the basis for the valorisation of young people in the labour market, setting new forms of work, ensuring stability in labour relations and promoting the real reconciliation of personal, family and professional life — in which Portugal is, in fact, a pioneer in the debate today — promoting real sharing between men and women, in particular in parental responsibilities and in the labour market,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... seeking to achieve the ambitious goal, which we assume in the European Pillar of Social Rights, to reduce by half the difference in the employment rate between men and women and their active participation in the labour market. But we also take as a priority a commitment to the social partners in the income and competitiveness agreement which guarantees young people, workers, companies a framework of confidence and enables them to increase the weight of GDP by 3 percentage points by 2026, balancing the weight of wages in national wealth, and at the same time to continue to increase the minimum wage without taboos.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u180	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u181	We also assume the need for focused investment and a response to youth unemployment and young NEET(not in education, employment or training ), with an ambitious goal of lowering the rate of young NEET to less than 8%. We also assume the need to attract workers to Portugal without complexes, placing the country at the forefront of welcoming new forms and models of work, as well as picking up digital nomads and remote workers, who can work from here to anywhere in the world. But we also assume to continue to ensure the inclusion and easy recognition in the social security system of any person who chooses Portugal to live and any Portuguese immigrant wherever he is. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Being part of the social security system is to be integrated and to ensure that we eliminate networks that take advantage of exclusion as a form of wealth on people. And that is why, as we created the allocation of the number of social security at the time, we were able, within two years, to bring 300 000 people who were already here, but who were outside the whole system. Also with the example of the reception of refugees coming from Ukraine, as a result of this capacity for reinvention and integration into the system, we already have 530 people working in Portugal covered by this system of inclusion. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We also want to continue to promote active policies for the restoration of the interior, with positive discrimination, dynamizing the geographical mobility of workers and taking advantage of the new forms of work, which allow us to work from here, from within, from our nerve center in the Iberian Peninsula, to any part of the world, and also to take workers from the Public Administration, which, from within, can work to any place in the country. At the same time, we have taken priority in supporting childhood, which is the first focus for equal opportunities and actual breakdowns of poverty cycles, with very clear objectives and goals: to remove 170 000 children from the poverty situation or exclusion by 2030; to extend the capacity of day care centres, so that everyone can have access, and free of charge for all children; to create the guarantee for childhood, ensuring a minimum value of € 1200 for children at risk of poverty or exclusion; and to assume it - as our fundamental collective mission; to strengthen family allowance and tax deductions for families; and to promote the deinstitutionalization of the 8000 children who are in foster homes today – and many of them could be in family care – and to be in the models of self-reliance for young people who are institutionalized. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We cannot waste 20% of our children, who are at risk of poverty, and that must be our mission. As for older people and people with disabilities, our commitments are also very clear. We will promote an agenda dedicated to the longevity and promotion of active participation and citizenship of older people. We will create a part-time reform mechanism as a means of progressive transition from the labour market. We will also implement new responses dedicated to active and healthy aging, with the promotion of autonomy and non-institutionalization of the elderly and people with disabilities. We will continue the updating of pensions, the replacement of the reference value of the solidarity complement for the elderly and the complement of the social benefit for inclusion above the poverty threshold. But for all this and as a basis of all this it is essential and crucial to continue the digital revolution in social security, making it closer and more understandable for citizens and businesses and more suited to the challenges we face. From then on, by reorganizing social security — a social security that the pandemic has abandoned — exposing the urgency of its transformation and its digitization to the service of people, creating a unique social benefit to eliminate complexity, noise, difficulty, making social security simpler and more effective. Making social benefits into automatic social benefits, without the need for an application, as is evident from what we can do with family allowance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Social security that only serves its function of promoting equal opportunities if it is simple, close and accessible to all, in particular to those who need it most and who are in a situation of greater vulnerability and with less information. Social security for people, this is our mission. A society that only grows with equal opportunities for all, in a country that is renewed, in a country that needs everyone, a country that only grows with innovation, diversity, inclusion and the force and mission that moves us and — I am sure — that unites us all. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u182	Thank you very much, Mrs Minister, who I have already welcomed, in this which was your first intervention in plenary, in this legislature. The Bureau registered eight Mrs. Members to request clarification and was informed that the Minister will answer in blocks of four. Therefore, to request clarifications, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs Minister, are the workers of our country who produce our wealth. Those who in the present work and keep the country working and those who, being reformed today, have worked in the past, many with long decades of contribution to social security. the general increase in wages, which is a national emergency, must also join the one which is the pressing need to ensure an extraordinary increase of all pensions, in order to restore the lost purchasing power over the years and what is being lost in relation to inflation numbers. Whoever has worked for a lifetime is today choosing to pay this month, because reform is not static at the end of the month. It is that the brutal increase in the cost of living that is being imposed is also a way to cut wages and pensions, Mrs. Minister. And if there is a party that has been struck by the appreciation of pensions is the PCP, and the five extraordinary consecutive increases that were achieved result exactly from this insistence that we had,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u184	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u185	... although they had fallen short of what we proposed, because the government had shown resistance to ensuring this increase to all pensioners and pensioners.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u186	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u187	But what is also required, in view of the reality we have today, in the face of the difficulties felt, is even an extraordinary increase in pensions for all pensioners and pensioners who effectively restate the purchasing power that is being lost. It is also essential, Mrs. Minister, to recognize and value the long-term careers of those who have contributed to a life of work for the country, ensuring the right to reform without any penalty to those who are 40 years of discounts, regardless of age, and to end the sustainability factor, as well as penalties that affect workers who have been pushed into early reforms and who continue to have unfair cuts in their pensions and reforms, and this is not a way for the government to take on the programme that it presents here. Mrs. Minister, you spoke about social security. The defence of public, universal and solidarity social security requires that it be able to carry out its mission. This requires the strengthening of workers, not workers with a precarious link, but workers with an effective link to social security, which are properly valued, and also requires the creation of employment with rights, the exploitation of wages, the fight against unemployment, the end of precariousness and not their legitimization, the fight against escape and avoidance of contributions and the expansion of sources of social security financing, but in addition to what the Government proposes in its Programme. The guarantee of social protection and the social rights of workers, families, reformers, children, people with disabilities requires better conditions of protection in unemployment, to which the Government has fled, but also the strengthening of social benefits, the universality of family allowance, as a right of the child, the strengthening of social benefits values for inclusion, as well as the better access to the same provision. But it also requires, Mrs. Minister, a public network of social equipment — households, day care centers and others. The Minister spoke of social equipment, but what is required is a network that has public management, in the responsibility of social security, which responds to the still persistent deficiencies, combats inequalities in access to such equipment and promotes the rights of users. Mr Minister, what answers does the Government give to reformers, children, disabled persons and families in the context of social protection and their social rights? It is that what is in this programme is very much less than what is necessary and also what is possible. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u188	Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, from the PS, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u189	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, this debate of the XXIII Constitutional Government Programme occurs in the context of the devastating war launched by the Russian Federation to Ukraine, with all its military, social and economic consequences, which are felt by companies, workers, pensioners and Portuguese in general. We are fighting this turbulence with several measures to safeguard purchasing power and combat inflationary pressures in the short term, especially in the agri-food and energy sectors, which Mr. Prime Minister here announced yesterday, but this is a four-and-a-half-year legislative programme, with a set of structural objectives, of growth with social cohesion, which Mr. Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security here now presented. We know that several of the measures that the Minister has put forward here and which are part of the programme could in fact be in force with the Portuguese in their pocket since January. I have now heard the CFP's intervention on this subject, in particular on pensions, and, with all esteem, Mrs Diana Ferreira, pensioners do not feel the extraordinary increase in pensions because the CFP has joined the right to bring the State budget where these increases were. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, there were those who decided to interrupt the course we had followed since 2015, opening up a political crisis that the Portuguese resolved by giving a solid majority to the Socialist Party, the Prime Minister and this government. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Portuguese who follow the various interventions made by the opposition parties must indeed hear with great strangeness what we are hearing here, what we have heard yesterday and today. This is because this absolute majority, which is exercised and will be exercised in a spirit of dialogue and humility, is not a majority that will replace the program of those who have won by the program of those who have lost the elections, as the opposition parties here seem to want to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Because it was the Socialist Party who won the elections, because it was this Prime Minister who won the elections and because it will be this government, with the majority support of the Portuguese, who will take the country forward. This programme presented here follows a line of cohesion reformism, which is the structural brand of the governance of the Socialist Party — between 2015 and last year, the increase in the budget allocation for social security was EUR 5.2 billion. We have cumulatively increased the minimum wage by 40 %, valuing the life of those who work; we have increased pensions year after year; we have increased the average wage; we have replaced income, careers, rights; we have increased social benefits and created new social benefits; we reverse privatisations and other dismantling measures, with the privatisations that you have made in the country, and we have made changes to labour law. [[P.S.'s applause.]] More recently, we are fighting for the greatest social and health emergency of the last century, protecting citizens and businesses, showing the difference that the Socialist Party's governance makes in response to a crisis, because we, unlike the right, have replaced austerity by solidarity and have replaced fear for hope. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH's laughs.]] [[PCP protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I know you don't like to listen, but you're gonna have to listen to it till the end. [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]] Take it easy, Mrs. Deputy! Take it easy, there's no second round of the elections! Take it easy! All of this allowed economic growth, a historical fall in unemployment, convergence with Europe, certain accounts, poverty alleviation and widespread improvement in Portuguese living conditions. In the heart of national solidarity, in just six years, one in four people at risk of poverty left that condition. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u190	More than 700 000 compatriots were removed from the social exclusion condition. These were years of progress that we are proud of, which the Portuguese have recognized in the legislative elections, and that is what we will continue to do: to move forward, to move forward, to move forward, even if you do not want to. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u191	Mr President, you have already exceeded twice your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u192	Mrs Minister, I would like to ask you about the Dignified Work Agenda and the income recovery policy in this Programme, in particular by deepening the vector of wages and working conditions of young people, taking on these concerns a majority of stability, progress and development that responds to all national generations. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u193	Mr José Moura Soeiro, from the Left Block, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u194	Mr President, Madam Minister, I have listened to your statement, of course we read the Government's programme and, leaving aside the euphoria with digital nomads and « unicorns», with Startup Nations and incubators, there is no intention of any serious transformation in the field of work: wages seen, guaranteed contracts, combat real abuse, end of impunity, social protection for all. In recent years, there has been no lack of government talks on inclusion, on qualified generations, on the importance of combating precariousness, of ensuring decent work, but at the same time as this rhetoric has become current, the pattern of precariousness has remained intact. We still have 10 % of poor workers; who studied and thought he was going to have a decent job continues to jump between term contracts; who earns €850 or €900 in a qualified profession has to do an absurd gymnastics in order to pay the household income and the situation is worse with inflation. Those who work in culture continue to receive green and without access to unemployment benefits; those who are stolen by temporary workers or are thrown into an outsourcing situation to earn less than their colleague still feels that companies enjoy the law and supervision of work. And in the same Pingo Doce that speculates, now, with prices and that distributes millions in dividends, a worker with the minimum wage would have to work 257 years to earn what his company manager earns in a year. Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the government, this creates disbelief, feelings of injustice for those who work and cannot get out of the cake strain, generates a feeling of impunity, because among what the programs, laws, rules and what really happens in practice goes a world away. The government has in its programme promises that have been dragged on for years. Announcing this government programme that is now going — attention! — apply the rate of turnover, which has announced about 50 times in the last six years and which still does not exist, even after being in the law. And it's not a single case. of the so-called Dignified Work Agenda, the Government has decided to place some parts of the Government's Programme and not to put others. What was the criterion? He left aside what could cause some irritation to the employers' confederations, which already disturb the absolute majority. Mrs. Members of the Government, we need a transformation against injustice rather than the same words as always and we need, immediately, an increase in wages,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u195	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u196	... in the public and in the private, because if this is not done what the government is truly announcing in this debate it is a condemnation. Those who live from their work will have part of their food wage by inflation and will therefore be punished by this policy, while the large energy and large distribution groups remain in touch with their profits and their speculative practice. This, in practice, in real life, will no longer be, Mrs. Minister, than a revision in the absence of inequality. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u197	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Clara Marques Mendes of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u198	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, I have a very simple explanation for asking you, very simple but very relevant, because it has to do with matters relating to the lives of workers, families and businesses. These are changes to labour legislation, the Dignified Work Agenda and social dialogue. In this respect, the Government has spoken to several voices and the Government's Programme does not explain to us either. Yesterday, Mr. Prime Minister said here that this absolute majority would promote social dialogue and the Minister today spoke in social dialogue and said that she would promote social dialogue. Last week, the Presidency Minister said that the amendments to the labour law follow up on Parliament without returning to social dialogue. Is that how you see the social dialogue? [[PSD applause.]] I would remind the Government that these amendments, which were adopted at the end of the previous Parliament, led to the fact that for the first time the social partners had announced the abandonment of social dialogue, that was how they were treated. In fact, Mr. Prime Minister had the opportunity to apologize. Therefore, it is essential to realize whether the Government will effectively lead this matter, as it should be, to social consultation or whether it will start here by giving the example of absolute majority / absolute power. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u199	To answer, you have the floor to Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u200	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, trying to answer each of the questions that have been asked to me, I shall begin with Mrs Diana Ferreira. Mrs Diana Ferreira, which is essential at the moment, is even ensuring that the State budget enters into force quickly, because the State budget has already responded to problems, particularly those which have identified, from the outset, ensuring the extraordinary increase of pensioners, with retroactivity since January. This is crucial at the moment we live, and it is therefore urgent that this State budget come into force quickly. I think we have all lost too much time to ensure that these measures are actually put on the ground. With the State budget that we will have for 2022, we will cover 2 million and 300 thousand pensioners, with an extraordinary update, with effect to January, to ensure that all people who have a pension up to €1108 actually have this extraordinary increase of €10, which corresponds to EUR 200 million in terms of the social security budget. What we assumed, after approval of the State budget, was also to ensure, from the outset, the measures to support families, in particular, the strengthening of the family allowance and the implementation for the first time of the guarantee for children, to respond to the situations of extreme poverty of children, which, at the moment we live, would say is even more critical and crucial. We therefore quickly need the State budget to enter into force in order to reach the most vulnerable populations. Having said this, Mrs Deputies, as well as the question of the diversification of sources of social security financing, I would say to you that this is in fact a dossier which we want to have an extended and informed debate on the part of all and with the mobilization of all, for a reflection on the diversification of sources of financing and on the models of financing, as well as on the changes in the labour market that we have experienced. It is critical to place this theme at the heart of our agenda, without any sudden or sudden changes, because this needs a global reading to ensure that we continue with the confidence and security of the system that we have been able to achieve, collectively since 2015, and that has allowed us, in fact, to have this debate and not another debate, which is that of privatization. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, this is even the time for the strategic fund discussion on new forms of financing and models of financing for social security, for which, in fact, we have already launched the challenge for everyone's involvement. Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro asked how we put it on the agenda and we guarantee that priority is given to the value of income and the value of young people in the labour market. That, I would say, is actually the country's highest priority right now. It is not just a problem for young people, but also for the country and businesses, if we cannot retain them and attract them. Therefore, this is a global challenge, to which we must answer in a global way. This compromise must therefore be a commitment of all, involving all the social partners in this discussion and ensuring that we have, in a stable way, a predictable framework that enables us, in fact, this solution, in a tripartite form, between the state, the social partners, representatives of employers and workers' representatives, so that each, within his or her responsibilities and capabilities, also takes the shared effort to make it happen: the State, of course, in which it is its size for discrimination and encouragement of companies that value wages and that value young people in the labour market and innovation, in particular through the extension of the Youth IRS or tax mechanisms, and also, of course, in its shared effort through valorisation and wage increase, which is even critical for us to retain talent, the decisive factor of our assertion and our collective future.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u201	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u202	Of course, this global commitment must have several dimensions, in addition to the value of wages, but also the ability to find the instruments that encourage and value collective bargaining as the privileged space for this to happen over the next few years, with the creation, in particular, of instruments of positive discrimination, incentives and conditions of access for companies that have collective bargaining, dynamic and active social dialogue. At the same time, the ability to retain and attract talent and young people in Portugal depends on a broader global framework of intervention, which also needs, here, this capacity for mobilization, not only of public housing policy programmes, which are being developed and are being strengthened, but also on the level of family support measures, specifically through the extension of the day care network and also freeness, which is critical for young people to be able to decide, with freedom and ability to decide, without constraints, their choice for Portugal. Mr Soeiro, with regard to the doubts which you have raised, once again here I reiterate that it is urgent, indeed, that we can implement the Dignified Work Agenda, which, for reasons which are not imputable to the Government, was interrupted precisely by the dissolution of Parliament. Therefore, we must once again ensure that we accelerate and recover lost time. We are at a stage in which it is essential to ensure the Dignified Work Agenda — evidence shows it in the companies themselves, which already demonstrate the great difficulty in hiring and finding human resources available to work — as the decisive element in demonstrating to young people that this is the country to decide to live and work. Of course, and looking at the development of precarious numbers in recent years, the fact is that we have had very strong, non-permanent end-of-contract rates, particularly in post-troika, of about 22 % in 2015, and at this time the percentage of non-permanent contracts is still 14, 4 %, which means that we still have a long way to go and that this has to be our total priority, not only through...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u203	Madam Minister, let me remind you that you still have four requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u204	Let go!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u205	Not only through the strengthening of legal mechanisms through the Dignified Work Agenda, which is a very extensive and strong Agenda, but also in terms of strengthening supervision and, also, new forms of framework for workers, as was the case with the Culture Statute, which we must also extend to other types of situations in order to frame ever more new ways of adapting to the labour market. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u206	Mr. Minister, before moving to the second series of requests for clarification, I must inform the House that a motion for rejection of the Government Programme has just entered the Bureau, submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, which will be immediately distributed by all parliamentary groups as well as to the government bench. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr João Dias, from the CFP, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u207	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, allow me first of all to say that he misses the truth. You know perfectly well that the extraordinary increases in pensions occurred only on the initiative and proposal of the CFP and we did not go any further because the PS government did not want to. He could have gone, had economic and political conditions to have done so, and he didn't do it because he didn't want to. [[PCP applause.]] At least assume the truth of what has been done! Mrs Minister, the Government's programme says that "the conditions for people to have and raise children in Portugal are still perceived by many young couples as insufficient". The CFP wants here to make it clear that this is not a problem of perception. The policy of devaluation of work, of workers, of wages, of public services, yes, has made it increasingly difficult for a young person to empower himself, the more he has children, to have a project of life and to create conditions for having a family in peace. How can young people plan whatever it is when the instability of bonds is already more a rule than an exception? How can a young person be autonomous without knowing whether he will be employed tomorrow or, then, knowing that soon he will be replaced by another, equally precarious, when wages are not worthy and do not come to pay an income, when the high housing costs are what they are, crushing any possibility of having his space? When working hours are becoming more and more irregular, preventing the reconciliation of professional life with any aspect of personal life, they will certainly not have the possibility of having children and being able to accompany them, as is their right and the right of children. Madam Minister, how does the Government answer these questions? As far as precariousness is concerned, Mrs Minister, the Government ends up legitimizing it when it should simply end with permissiveness and enforce the principle that a permanent job must correspond to an effective bond.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u208	Mr President, I ask you to conclude your statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u209	I shall now finish, Mr President, by saying that if we do not have a free public network of day care centres, the present and the future of children will not be guaranteed. Why does the Government refuse to accept this commitment, Minister? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u210	For a request for clarification, Mrs Rita Matias of the Arrival has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u211	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, Mrs Minister, today, we have already talked about young people and Mr Economics' response was that they will try to find a way. The Minister's replies are equally vague. Question : Six years later, are they still looking for a way? It is that young Portuguese have no more time, because being young in Portugal currently means belonging to a real risk group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u212	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u213	We have the fifth highest rate of young unemployment in the European Union. The young Portuguese are the ones in Europe who have the greatest difficulty in leaving their parents' home. More than 70% of young Portuguese workers receive less than €950 per month. This should embarrass the gentlemen. Ministers. [[Congrats from the CH.]] With this value, and in view of basic expenses, such as income, water, light, how is it possible for a young Portuguese to arrive at the end of the month with a positive balance in the account? How is it possible to save to gather the money needed to enter a house? These are the questions that young Portuguese people want to see answered here. So far, the answer given by the socialist governments is that young people do not leave their parents' homes and, if they have done so, return as quickly as possible or, then, look for a future out there. We see in the document that we are discussing a number of programmes and targets for young people, for young employment. It's all very nice, but I wonder what the realism of them is. If we look at the programs that already exist, such as Porta 65, and compare them with reality, we perceive a breakthrough. This program, this year, defends as the maximum allowed income for financing, for example, in the city of Lisbon, T0 and T1 up to €581. Where can you find a T1 in Lisbon for this value? Maybe just a tent in a campsite. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Portuguese youth do not need to waste money on ideological charities in schools, ridiculous questionnaires or programs other than reality. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Young people need to know if they can have a future in Portugal. And what I ask is if you will have the courage to go beyond this program, which, as you have already seen, promises a hand full of nothing to the young Portuguese. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u214	For a request for clarification, Mr. Francisco César, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u215	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mrs Minister, allow me - let me fulfil it for your new mandate, but also for being responsible, or partly, for an Budget which was probably the leftmost budgets of the history of Portuguese democracy. It was from the budgets that he was most concerned with social issues, with inclusive growth, and it was this Budget that, by chance, was plunged on the left, the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Minister finished her speech with a sentence which is very significant in what is the Socialist Party's programme and matrix: a society grows only when it provides equal opportunities for all. The work done by the Government of the Republic was providential, essential during the COVID-19. It was also a work to combat precariousness, to promote decent work, with priority being given to reconciling working life with personal life. It was also a work of establishing a social network without parallel in the history of Portuguese democracy, a social network that is, in fact, complemented by IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity) and mutuality. It is in this sense that I ask you, Minister, what predictability these institutions can provide in terms of support to help and complement the State in its work of social support. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u216	Finally, to request clarification from the Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, Mrs Joana Barata Lopes, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u217	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs Minister, said yesterday Mr Prime Minister : « We now have the conditions to do what is necessary to do. Do not keep on seeking. ” I therefore had the hope that the Minister here would speak with clarity and concreteness of the need to discuss the sustainability of the pension system, without dogmas or ideological popes,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u218	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u219	...the serious sustainability and not the one that falls into those who try to access the pension and are about a year, or more, waiting to receive. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u220	It is that the defence of the social state, which Mr Prime Minister told us yesterday, is the defense of all, of those who receive pensions today and of those who will receive them, and it is only really the defense of the social state that it defends the protection of the rights acquired and of the rights to information, as all that must be. Mr. Prime Minister said that I would ensure that the most prepared generation was also in our country the most accomplished generation. Mr Minister, the European Commission anticipates that someone who is reformed in Portugal within 20 years will live with a pension corresponding to about half of the salary he was living with until that time, with a marked tendency to get worse by 2070. Madam Minister, do you think this generation will feel fulfilled? It will tell me that they financially strengthened social security during the pandemic. Madam Minister, this report that I am speaking to you is that of updating pensions in 2021 and you, who come in your programme, talk about encouraging adherence to identical retirement or savings certificates, are unable to recognize that such avulden measures are insufficient to resolve the deterioration of our pension system's response.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u221	I ask the honourable Member to conclude, because his time is up.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u222	I shall conclude, Mr President. The PS has led here all the proposals presented by the PSD for transparency and debate. They say they now have the right to do what is necessary; I ask you the courage. Finally, Mr President, remembering that Mr. Prime Minister has already quoted Jorge Palma, and I pay: « Ai, Portugal, Portugal, Portugal, what are you waiting for? » It is that pension reform can no longer wait. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u223	To reply, Mr. Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security has the floor. Mrs. Minister, it has only 3 minutes and 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u224	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reiterate my earlier concern, which is the following: we cannot delay implementation any longer than is urgent and critical for Portugal. We've already lost too much time with interruptions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u225	Very!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u226	It's really crucial that we speed up. In fact, we are delaying the implementation of the Dignified Work Agenda resulting from the inability of us to realize that this was an interest that unites us all and should have allowed us to overcome barriers, walls and ameys. Clearly, we can no longer delay implementation. I could not agree more, and this is an issue which, with the social partners — also taking advantage of to answer Mrs Clara Marques Mendes — was very much debated over two years, in which we worked together on the Green Paper on the Future of Work, and so we will always continue to do, in a permanent dialogue and without ever closing doors to improve all that we have done. In fact, we will also have the space here, in Parliament, to do so,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u227	But are you going to social concert or not? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u228	... but always open doors, with the social partners, and to improve everything we can, jointly and in social dialogue. Mrs Rita Matias, I imagine what it would be like to support young employment measures or public policy measures to support young people. Just think or remember the theory that one should distinguish between good people and people who are not. I wonder if we would distinguish, then, who would be the young ones of good that we would support. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]] On the other hand, I have to say that the pandemic has shown, in fact, and has given all of us an added social legitimacy to accelerate investment and focus on investment, in addition, with the opportunity of financial instruments that have been mobilised unpublished, also to respond to the social weaknesses and problems that we have had to respond in a more accelerated way, as was the example of support for young employment. It was in this sense that we have mobilized a large part of the PRR resources, and will also be mobilised from the PT 2030, to support qualifications and training, particularly in strategic areas of development.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u229	What are they?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u230	in this sense, I take advantage to say that we have already planned a large investment by the IEFP in critical areas, such as the digital area, the environmental area and the social sector area. In addition, we also have a programme, which we have already launched in March, dedicated to supporting the recruitment of young people in permanent contracts for the first time to support the decisive fight against precariousness, supporting only contracts that are permanent contracts. In 15 days, the programme has already covered 3300 young people, showing their great capacity for mobilization on the ground.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u231	I ask you, Minister, to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u232	Mr President, I conclude by taking advantage of Mr Francis César's challenge, to say that at the moment we are given a high priority, also as a result of the agreement signed with the social sector, the creation, for the first time, of a centre of competence dedicated to the social economy, which will remain in the Guard. This is an Iberian centre, with a partnership with Spain, to reach the entire social economy of the Iberian Peninsula, gaining scale here, and assuming a fair share in the costs of social responses, especially to the most vulnerable people, because this is a commitment of all, of the social state, and the social state is done with everyone, with the public sector, but also with the social sector, to whom I deeply thank all the work during the pandemic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u233	Mr Rui Paulo Sousa, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u234	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr. Members: In its programme, the Government intends to combat fraud and tax evasion and to build a fairer tax system. However, we cannot understand, and perhaps they can explain to us, how there can be an effective fight against fraud and tax evasion without speedy justice. How do you want to fight fraud and tax evasion if offenders can count on slow and ineffective justice, which brings impunity? The Government programme states that justice is intended to become closer, more efficient and faster, but nothing concrete is proposed for the resolution of delays in tax courts, which, in some cases, reaches 20 years in the first instance and more than 10 years in the higher courts. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Is the government's lack of interest in resolving, in a strong, immediate and effective manner, the procedural delay of these courts lies in the fact that its failure to function justifies the existence of a kind of «private courts of large taxpayers », which is the so-called tax arbitration? It is a shame that, at this time, there are two fiscal judgments in our country, the justice of the rich and the justice of the poor. Question: how can the citizen fully understand that the large business groups and the BES ( Banco Espírito Santo ) in our country can have a decision in very few months and the small taxpayer, to resolve their small dispute of IRS and other taxes, must sometimes wait 10 and 20 years? It is that the small taxpayer cannot pay the very high amounts of the costs required in tax arbitration. In fact, the small taxpayer can hardly pay the brutality of the costs that are required to access the courts in general today. So let's see: fiscal justice doesn't work, it's lagging behind, and yet taxpayers have to keep paying for excessive procedural costs. Is it the government's intention to turn fiscal justice into a justice aimed only at the rich? It is that, as you know, Prime Minister, a slow justice is not justice. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u235	For an intervention, Mr. Diogo Pacheco de Amorim, of the Arrival, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u236	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members: To be brief, I would say, with some irony, that this Government Programme is largely divided into two parts: a first, where the glorious facts of the previous two governments of the Socialist Party are sung, is epic poetry, a question of play of words. In fact, a little while ago, listening to Mr. Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u237	Again? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u238	... we realize what happens: it is called sobriety to austerity and we move from Portugal to Switzerland on a magic pass. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Then we have a second part, where we draw the four years to come, and it is lyrical poetry. In fact, it never happens, it is always planned, but it is never realized. In view of the programmes of the two previous governments of the responsibility of the PS, never fulfilled, nothing will have to do with the future reality because once again it will surely be impossible to comply. For example, as far as communities are concerned: in the 2015 Programme, which dedicated five pages to it, none of the many promises were fulfilled; the 2019 Programme, which was more modest or more prudent, dedicated only one page and everything was to be fulfilled; now, in this current Programme, which makes virtually the same promises and on the same page, it is almost the same as 2019, all leads us to conclude that these promises will not be fulfilled. Let's try to help the government with a suggestion. This programme promises to strengthen the conditions of civic and political participation of Portuguese residents abroad. In order to materialize this vague promise, will the Government be prepared to promote the qualified majority necessary to open the possibility for members of communities living in Portugal too to vote in the autarchies at the authority of their residence? I believe that the government will find clear support for these amendments in the other parties. You can certainly count on him. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u239	For an intervention, Mr Pedro Pinto of the Arrival has the floor, to whom I remember that he has only 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u240	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Deputies: After we've been watching this in-law of lovers all morning between the Socialist Party, the PCP and the Left Block, the boyfriend is finished, the wedding is over, we realize, we're going on. It is good that this Government recognises that security is a fundamental pillar of the democratic rule of law. What is strange is, at the same time, to devalue the work of the public security forces. Very quickly: it is strange that in this Government Programme there is no word for the police, who are on the streets every day watching for our safety and for our families,... [[Congrats from the CH.]] ... despite the lack of appreciation of his work, the lack of conditions for the exercise of his functions and the lack of respect for which he is often subject. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Over the past two decades, 160 Portuguese police, 80 PSP (PSP) and 80 GNR ( Republican National Guard), have ended with their own lives. I leave two questions to which they will answer when they can, and it will certainly not be now: what is the Prime Minister and his government doing to combat violence against members of the security forces? Finally, he wants to know when the government will finally recognize and value the work of these professionals and assign them a decent risk allowance, which is not mere migalas. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u241	Mr. Deputies, you have already exceeded your time, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u242	Mr. President, I ask you for 10 seconds. Mr Rui Tavares, come here to value the families of Gypsy ethnicity is one thing, but you must also tell the truth: you must also value the family of those GNRs who have been attacked in the village of Cuba and for which you have no word. These were assaulted by a family of Gypsy ethnicity... [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u243	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u244	And more: the nurses at Vila Nova Hospital of Family was the same. But you have zero words. Hypocrisy, it's the only thing I have to say! Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u245	Mr President, due to a manifest lack of time, the other intervention which the CH Parliamentary Group had entered. Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias is registered and has 15 seconds. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u246	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Government members are 15 seconds, but that's enough. My gentlemen, I have tabled a motion of rejection, but I must say now: it is not happening! It's not happening! [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is a democratically elected majority. You have no choice. It's not happening! It's not happening! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]] It's not happening! And I must say more: here the debate is democratic; monologues is not in participatory democracy on 25 April. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u247	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, I would like to thank all the containment efforts that they have given evidence and I would also ask them to try to contain them so that we can start our work again at 3 p.m. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is suspended. [[It was 13 hours and 55 minutes.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have quorum to continue our work. [[It was 15 hours and 10 minutes.]] I greet Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Members of the Government. Mrs. Members, we will begin the closing phase of the debate on the XXIII Constitutional Government Programme. The first intervention is for the Free Party, and I give the floor to Mr Rui Tavares to make his speech, asking the ladies and gentlemen. Members who occupy their seats, thus creating conditions for the whole House to hear Mr. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u248	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Faces and Dear Colleagues: I said recently that the discussion between cheap labour or high value added, we were already doing it perhaps 300 years ago, but now I want to tell you that we cannot do it, even for more than 30 years. We cannot do so because, in a context of freedom of movement, the country becomes unsustainable if we do not bet on the high added value once and for all. Mr. Prime Minister said that we must have wages to the proportion of GDP in the same proportion as wages to the proportion of GDP in the rest of Europe. There is only one problem: the GDP of others is higher, the GDP per capita is higher and freedom of movement allows people to earn higher wages in countries with higher GDP per capita. That is why I say that mere convergence with the European Union's average is not enough and Portugal must be a vanguard economy within the European Union, and we can be that because there is the generation that will put us at the level of qualification of the rest of Europe. I believe that, perhaps, the main difference that is expressed in this debate between the Government's Programme and the Free Programme is that, in what the Government believes that the changes there are conjuncural and can come to pass, the Livre believes that they are structural and believes that even the conjuncural should be treated as structural, because each of them offers us an opportunity to make the changes that the economy and society in our country needs. We will create new models of public transport, creating a new school transport network. Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Ministers, it is possible to do so in the same way as the PART, but now by supporting a fleet of electric vehicles that carry out school transport and which, outside school transport schedules, support senior citizens in rural and urban areas. We will change the form of access to unemployment benefit so that, if a member of a couple receives an invitation to work in the interior, the other can receive the unemployment benefit as they both move inside, or while someone finishes their qualifications. Above all, let us make this Parliament a different legislature, because it is the 48th and 50th years of April and because a democracy that does not have objects of political desire cannot last. So at work, at work, because, as Manuel António Pina said, «it is not yet the end/or the beginning of the world», but, in fact, it is already getting a little late.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u249	For the closing intervention, on behalf of the party Persons-Animal-Nature, I give the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u250	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The elections have passed and are not necessary second rounds. This programme will need many laps, if it is really to apply in four years and six months, as Mr. Prime Minister told us. But first of all, let's go to the question: did the Portuguese realize that the government only wants to end energy poverty in 2050 and that even there will have to keep going cold at home? It is 2 million people without money to heat their houses and, with the fiasco that has been the Vale Efficiency Program, really, the country can wait 28 years. Did the Portuguese perceive that the sea has become under the protection of the Minister of Economics, who says that he still needs to know the ocean, when the risk of the sea is real being challenged by a voracious extractivism of mineral resources and when more climate action and less environmentalism of circumstance is required? Did the Portuguese understand that the increase in their wages will not cover, either near or far, the brutal increase in the prices of essential goods, where bread is included? And when Europe talks about VAT for bread, fruit, vegetables, putting on the table what is zero VAT, the government is not able to compromise and only reduces the ISP, does not set environmental criteria and keeps the tax bubbles for large pollutants. Did the Portuguese understand that the Government's Programme does not have a single animal protection measure? Between the proposals of the November State Budget and the election campaign, public veterinary hospitals were on their way. And, when money is missing to deal with, in general, the prices that are rising, we continue to give tax bills, incomprehensible, to the bullfighters and public money for the hunting baronate. With this programme, in four years and six months, young people will not be able to have stable employment, buy their own home, become a family. All this is a mirage. Women will have to continue to face the wall of inequality. More: with lower wages than men, with secure access to top positions and to have to shut up in the face of harassment, as well as we were also furnished by the House of the Republic. With this programme, those in poverty will continue to see the social elevator stopped. Mr. Prime Minister, this programme needs many laps. Let us hope that the first major return will now come from the proposal of the State Budget. We are seven years from the point of no return, at least in a decade to fulfill the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, we are far from being able to mitigate the effects of climate change, far from eradicating poverty, the barracks and having a country that is for young people, for the elderly, including for animals, for everyone. An absolute majority government, Prime Minister, will have no excuse for not giving the answers that the country needs; it is only dependent on its own political will. As for the motion for a rejection of the Arrival, the NAP has already announced that it will vote against. The solutions that the country needs do not go through populist show-offs and find no answer in antidemocratic political forces... [[CH protests.]] ... and that they do not respect full equality among all, without exception. from the NAP, the country knows what it will expect: a green agenda, environmentalist, progressive, feminist, animalist and strongly committed to human rights. A silent voice without being opposed.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u251	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u252	I really am concluding, Mr President. The country will have a voice that is a place of defense for all causes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u253	For the closing intervention on behalf of the Left Block, I give the floor to Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u254	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us have this debate at a particular time and, before the announcement of inflation, an economic statement to say that prices are rising but not wages, the absolute majority of the Socialist Party has come to this debate with a noisy silence. On the 181 pages of the Government Programme, zero references to the problem of inflation. But, of course, the Prime Minister broke the silence at the beginning of the debate and, where there was no word before, there are now two guarantees: first, the price increase has still begun and the government has already given up increasing wages; second, the Government's solution to combat inflation is to wait for it to pass. At the time that families look anxiously at an inflation forecast above 4 %, we heard the proud Prime Minister repeat that the problem now presented is exactly the same as the problem presented at the time when the inflation forecast was four times lower. If the world changed, the government stayed in the same place. Mr. Prime Minister, only since the war began in Ukraine, the price of the cabal of essential goods has increased by more than 5 %. I repeat: we are still entering this cycle of inflation and the price of essential goods has already increased by 5 %! This means that the life of the majority of the population, families, who were already accounting at the end of each month, has become more difficult. This at the same time as EDP, Galp, Pingo Doce and Continent distribute more than EUR 2000 million in dividends. The question is therefore about justice. Let us ask: What is fairer? Does a family pay more in the supermarket to protect profits from large distribution or a chain of hypermarkets earn less to protect income from a family? The Government Programme gives the wrong answer to this question. Without guarantees of price control and without a single measure to increase wages, leave intact the profit margins of large companies and pass the entire inflation bill to families. Jerome Martins or Sonae appreciate sympathy while distributing profits to shareholders with only one certainty: the only moment he knows how to pay so little is on the employee's payroll. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Sympathy also in this debate with EDP, which, as it is known, continues to pay taxes on the sale of six dams to Engie and still guarantees that nothing will cut the fallen profits of the sky. The government says it will lower the light account with the request you made in Brussels to impose maximum ceilings on gas. Nothing against it! But it doesn't tell the whole story. All energy will continue to be paid at the price of the most expensive gas, which means that even with the promised cut, the energy produced by dams, for example, will continue to be paid four times above the price, already exaggerated, of 2020. On the other hand, it will not be the energy to pay the difference between the price of gas and the maximum that the Government now says it will impose. In other words, this difference enters the system and will end up being paid by consumers, who know that in any case they will pay much more expensive energy than they paid in 2020. in this debate, the Minister of Economy has still reached the hypothesis of a rate on the fallen profits of heaven. in this case, the extraordinary gains of the EDP with the dams, for example, could be used to lower the account of light and neutralize future climbs. But that rate had a very short life, it didn't come one morning. The Minister of Economic Affairs reached the hypothesis at the beginning of the morning and by the end of the morning the Minister of Environment had already dropped that idea. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u255	EDP smiled and consumers learned that, in some way or another, they did not get rid of paying for the increasing and astronomical profits of the electricity, with their wages getting shorter and shorter. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in this debate it is good not to forget the role of the right. We heard everything, but we didn't hear a word on the right about who's playing and winning with inflation. We heard a PSD deputy at a rare time taking a mistake in the years of the troika austerity. The PSD error, he said, was not to leave public servants without one or two months of salary. This is because — guaranteeing the Member — would be a lesson for the people, « a little girl». Yesterday, as today, the PSD has only one stalemate: to cut in the wages of those who work, to protect the economy from privilege. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD protests.]] It is worth recalling that in 2002 there was a Liberal-led Prime Minister who made a prophecy: the liberalisation of fuels would lower prices because, and I quote, « competition normally works for consumers ». Do you know how much a litre of gas oil cost in 2002? It cost 67 cents. Today, it's above 2 €. The right may well wish to hide its past, but the country knows that there have been few "price reductions" that have gone out so expensive to the consumer portfolio.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u256	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u257	And it is not surprising that a liberal right, which presents itself as a new one, has not had a word about the oligopolies that strangle the economy — liberal but little. Even those so beloved « unicorns» and start-ups will have to pay the guaranteed income to EDP, because the owners of this all never make the voice gross. [[Congratulations from BE.]] But, Prime Minister, the irresponsibility of the right did not preclude the responsibility of the Socialist Party to respond to the country. And the answer you propose, as much as you want to call it from the left, does not go through the simplest tests. The Government, in its Program, abandons the goal of the National Health Service, to ensure a family doctor to the whole population, and resigns itself to the lack of teachers in public school. It is good news for the private, it is bad news for those who cannot afford it and it is bad news for democracy, which does not provide the conditions of equality that only universal public services can guarantee. And I'm going back to the beginning: who pays for this crisis? There are sectors speculating and earning millions with inflation. It will continue. The wages are already losing, every day, with the increase in prices. It will continue as well. The government may call it a transitional problem. But, in fact, the same António Costa that ensures that the crisis is transient recognizes that the end of the war is unpredictable. Only one certainty, therefore: with the refusal to update wages and pensions for inflation, what the Government has announced to this debate is the actual cut in wages, more or less transitional, for a period of more or less unpredictable, but it is the cut in wages. The guarantee of the Block, on our part, is that we will be opposed to this Programme. Portugal defends itself with justice in the economy and with respect for those who work. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u258	For the closing intervention, on behalf of the Portuguese Communist Party, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u259	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister and other members of the Government : After obtaining the absolute majority that he aspired to, the PS Government now undertakes functions with the certainty both of the approval of all State budgets and of proposals for legislation to be submitted to the Assembly of the Republic, or of the confirmation of decisions to be taken in the Council of Ministers, or of the ability to defeat any proposal other than theirs. If, since 2015, the PS did not have institutional conditions to carry out all its options, this conditioning now ceases to exist. And the debate of the Government's programme has already given rise to what can be expected of its action and its options over the next four years. Both in the Programme it presents, and in the way it considers its implementation, the Government refuses to recognize the existence and depth of the country's structural problems, in order not to have to confront the responsibility and consequences of these problems in the lives of workers and the people and the embarrassing and blocking factor that constitute a sovereign development project of the country. It is limited to indicate temporary or transitional measures. To mitigate them, refuse solutions that could ensure a comprehensive response to national problems and send to third parties, in particular to the European Union, the possibility of conditionalating decisions on them. The CFP has brought to this debate about three dozen concrete solutions and commitments to address national problems, some more immediate, others more substantive. There was no one to whom the PS or the government expected to want to correspond, and thus allowed the vain proclamations of openness and availability to dialogue and convergence to be carried out by the wind. They have not even expressed openness to those who are most urgent, such as the valuation of all wages, including from the national minimum wage to €850 in the short term, but also from reforms and pensions, ensuring an extraordinary increase that restores the lost purchasing power with inflation. It is not surprising that these are the options of the PS nor the attitude of its absolute majority, which negatively weighs on this circumstance is what they reveal of refusal in response to the problems that infern life to the workers and the people and compromise the development of the country. The great problems facing the country are neither new nor unexpected nor unknown. The major problems facing the country are the injustices and inequalities, the lack of production and the impoverishment of productive resources, the demographic deficit, external dependence, the lack of public investment in the modernization of the country and its economic, social, scientific or technological infrastructure, the denial of the citizens of their social rights. The precariousness, the uncertainty of having work and wages exposed the weakness of social protection mechanisms, exposed the inability to recover quickly from the consequences of years of disinvestment in the social functions of the State and in public services, such as SNS, public school, social security or civil protection. During these years of the epidemic, millions of Portuguese have seen their living conditions deteriorate significantly and the situation has not yet been more dramatic because some of the measures proposed by the CFP have been adopted. But in the same period, the large economic groups that control strategic enterprises and sectors essential to the functioning of national life have accumulated profits and distributed dividends of billions of euros. In recent months, inflation, war and sanctions, which our people are already paying, while others are threatening millions of profits, are again exposing the dependence of a country that wastes capacity and productive resources in the agro-food production of intermediate goods or production factors, again exposing the vulnerability of a country to the liberalized market of energy and fuel, in which profit gains prevail, again exposing the fragility of a country where wages, pensions and the purchasing power of the people are always referred to as a factor of economic adjustment, used to respond to the crises of the casino economy. As for the government, when it claims that the response to inflation cannot be the increase in wages and pensions, then it is saying that it will be the workers and the reformers to pay the crisis with their living conditions. When the Government considers only tax measures on energy and fuel, refusing to control and fix prices, what it is saying is that the profits of oil will be unaffected and will not lose weight in the economy and in the lives of the people as long as the State can subsidize them with tax money, even if it is lacking in the National Health Service, in public services, in public investment, in housing or in day care. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and other members of the Government : Portugal needs a policy to combat inequalities and injustices, to enhance work and workers, a policy to guarantee the future of new generations and the rights of parents and children, to defend social rights and to strengthen public services, a policy capable of breaking with external dependence and ensuring national development, defending rights, freedoms and guarantees and combating corruption. A policy that values wages and pensions, which changes labour legislation to defend workers from lay-offs, precariousness, deregulation of working hours and other ways of aggravating exploitation, a policy that ensures the public investment necessary for the modernization of the country and the guarantee of the future, with the creation of a public network of day care, access to housing, the qualification of public services in the SNS, in public school or in culture, a policy that guarantees social protection for the unemployed, people with disabilities, all those who are victims of social exclusion. Portugal needs a policy on national production, agriculture, fisheries and industry, a policy that puts companies and strategic sectors at the service of national development, whether in banking, transport, communications, energy or science, a fiscal policy that relieves labour taxes and lower and intermediate incomes, effectively taxing the highest incomes and profits of economic groups, combating fraud and tax evasion. It is this policy that the people and the country need, that the Government Programme does not speak and that the PS refuses. But that is the policy that can guarantee the overall response to the problems of the country, to ensure sovereign development and a future of progress and social justice, that is the policy that the CFP will continue to beat. There's no reason for us to lower our arms. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u260	For the closing intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative party, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u261	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : These two days of debate around the Government's programme have shown more of the same: the Socialist Party has no idea how to grow Portugal. And this disability is not merely conjuncural. We are faced with a document structurally similar to the 2019 Programme, only cut and paste, is « turn the disc and play the same ». We are facing a document that denies the impacts of the pandemic and the wrong decisions that the previous government has made. We are facing a government programme that denies the existence of a war in Europe, with impacts that are already felt, and will make it feel even more, on the day-to-day Portuguese. The Socialist Party joins its incompetence, in not knowing how to grow the country, the characteristic of the denial of reality. The Socialist Party refuses to see the problems, to imagine that they do not exist. We are talking about the Government of a Party Programme, the PS, which insists that Portugal has been stagnant for more than 20 years. A PS which insists on denying that Portugal continues to be overcome by others in the most diverse development rankings, particularly economic ones. A PS that insists that the high tax burden is an obstacle to growth and competitiveness. A PS that insists on denying that fiscal effort limits the freedom of Portuguese, preventing them from going up into life. A PS which insists on denying that Portugal is the fifth European country with the highest percentage of young unemployment, above 20 %. It says the government's propaganda that this is the most capable generation ever, and what reality demonstrates is that the PS is a party unable to create opportunities for this generation. [[Applause from the IL.]] PS is a party unable to retain this talent in Portugal. It is a party that resigns itself to see from the most capable, the most qualified. It's a party that condemns younger people to emigration. This PS insists that poverty has always been rising. It denies that there are 1, 6 million Portuguese living below the poverty risk threshold. This PS is a party that speaks of a pink Portugal that no one else sees, which denies that the SNS is in collapse, denies that the social elevator, education, is damaged. in one case as in another, there is no desire to reform. in one case as in another, PS is a party that does not trust the Portuguese, giving them no choice, to each of the Portuguese. Reforming the health system? Nothing they do, nothing changes. With this PS, the only guarantee is waiting lists, and we will still feel the impact of all the diagnoses that have to be done in recent years. Reform in education? Nothing they do, nothing changes. With this PS, the only guarantee is the imposition of the school and a centralized regime, schools and kindergartens where they insist on the absurdity of the imposition of masks. There are children who have not yet met the smile of colleagues, teachers and educators. It's urgent to change! Enjoy your school holidays, Prime Minister! [[Applause from the IL.]] And in justice, which is slow and where the most disadvantaged are harmed before the strongest, where the state itself is included, the reforms are non-existent. Also in justice, nothing they do, nothing changes. Fight corruption? They do nothing, nothing changes, as if the problem did not exist, as if corruption was not a social chaga, as if corruption did not undermine democracy. In social security, threatened in time, there is no way of reform that guarantees a future beyond 2050. Once again, nothing they do, nothing changes. The Socialist Party is the party to immobilism. This PS is unable to change, this PS is unable to innovate, this PS is unable to respond to the concrete problems of several generations, especially younger generations. Not a pandemic, not a war, not an absolute parliamentary majority are enough for the PS to change. Therefore, the Government Programme is more than the same, it is a programme that only proposes more state, it only proposes more directness, whether in the areas already mentioned, such as health, education or social security, or in the real economy. The country managed by the PS is fully dependent on European financial tournaments. In the face of the largest amount of money coming from Europe, it loses another opportunity to change lives, to make reforms, to apply this money in the economy that generates jobs and makes Portugal grow. The Socialist Party thus joins with incompetence, denial of reality and immobilism another characteristic: it is "Central State". instead of believing in the creative and entrepreneurial capacity of the Portuguese, the PS government insists on fattening the state. instead of providing resources to people and businesses, the PS burys Portuguese in taxes and inferns them in bureaucracy. More and more bureaucracy. It is a party which, in its own hands, has the capacity to reduce energy costs, especially fuels, by lowering taxes, opts for complicated solutions, as was the case with the AUTOvoucher. Complicater is one of the PS slogans. We see the tax system that we have: between steps, exemptions and deductions, are only complications. And they want more, they want more complicated. The Socialist Party joins with incompetence, denial of reality, immobility and statism the inability to simplify. In the face of the Government Programme of this PS, one cannot even expect something new. But it was possible, because there are alternative ways. In the services available to citizens, especially in health and education, the bet should be in more freedom of choice, as the Liberal Initiative defends and is practical in many European countries, thus improving the access and life of Portuguese people. In the tax system, the bet should be on simplification, beginning with reducing steps and rates in the IRS, as the Liberal Initiative defends and is practical in most European countries, thus creating conditions for better wages, more saving capacity and more purchasing power in Portuguese. For companies, the bet should be an effective low of taxes, starting at IRC, without forgetting the many fees that companies charge and increase bureaucracy. in a country with a business fabric based on small and medium-sized enterprises, it is essential to start by decomplicating the life to whom you want to produce. In social security, it is urgent to abandon a system with an intended end and which does not guarantee the future to those who are now starting to work. Everyone must be able to create his own plan and ensure that he is reformed. In the electoral system, it is unacceptable to create a model that approaches electors and voters, the uninominal circles, ensuring pluralism and increasing representativeness, a national circle of compensation. This is the only way to combat abstention, and it will only be possible to put an end to the unacceptable waste of votes, which in the last elections was about 700 000. [[Applause from the IL.]] In justice, effective reforms must be made and not merely cosmetics. There is an urgent need for speedy justice, where processes do not continue for years. A justice in which the State does not have prerogatives that inhibit disputes. Efficient, specialized and comprehensive justice is also essential for combating corruption, which must be a national priority. These are some of the examples from where and how it is possible to think and make different. Is it necessary to counter and combat installed interests? Of course. Is it necessary to fight corporateism? No doubt! Is it necessary to counter customers? Obviously! Is there a need to counteract entrenched habits? No hesitation! But for that, it takes courage, which is something the PS has not shown. Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and members of the Government, Mr. Members: The Portuguese are looking at all of us. We cannot miss another opportunity to put Portugal on the path to progress and the future. We cannot resign ourselves to immobilism while other countries overcome us. We deserve much better, we don't deserve more than that. In Europe there are many developed countries with robust economies. Several of these countries have exceeded us in recent years since Mr Prime Minister began his duties as Head of Government. Mr. Prime Minister, Portugal is staying behind. Mr. Prime Minister, although he brought yesterday the example of Holland, the Netherlands, as his inspiration for housing. But the success recorded there does not happen by chance. This is a country that puts uncomplexed in liberal policies on education, health and taxation, both for people and for businesses. [[Applause from the IL.]] If it is inspired by housing, it should also be inspired by other liberal examples of Holland. It's still time to learn from good examples. It is that these are exactly the policies that Portugal needs, are the policies that can make Portugal a prosperous country and opportunities for all and not just for some. Liberalism is the alternative that brings us closer to the prosperous and dynamic Europe that serves as a model. Finally, Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, as you mentioned yesterday about Coca-Cola, and then you pass the publicity, let me quote a great Portuguese, who said about that drink: "First strange, then come in. This same, Fernando Pessoa, a liberal, who would say the same thing about liberalism as he said about Coca-Cola: "First strange, then enter. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PS protests.]] If Pessoa today was here, I am sure that I would also say: « Liberalism works and needs Portugal. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[IL applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u262	Mr André Ventura has the floor to speak on behalf of the party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u263	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This Programme and this Government presented today must be rejected by this Parliament. They must be rejected by inefficiencies, they must be rejected by the inability to respond to the problems of the population and, above all, they must be rejected because they do not present the list of ministers we need for Portugal. We already knew that, among ministers, we had those who severely destroy the TAP, those who contribute intensively with the Russians and those who prepare on 25 April at the price of gold. But this government is not only about those who are here, it is also about those who have gone out. Yes, those who went out and today we knew that they went out with a reform of €6750 per month. I look at the Portuguese people who are looking at us, face to face, and I wonder if it is normal for a Minister of Justice to reform with €6750 per month, when there are firefighters to receive €300 and €400 each month. I wonder if they think it's normal for this to happen. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I wonder if this country of impunity and this paradise in which we live is normal, in which, after they have made a fool of it, in this government, some leave for a golden reform. It is not The Golden Gaiola of the cinema, it is even the golden reform with which some insist on enjoying the Portuguese. In the midst of this reform and this golden cage, police continue to have risk subsidies that shame any country in Europe, firefighters continue to have rotting facilities and teachers remain without authority and without careers. Yesterday, a teacher told me personally that being 500 km away from home or 1 km away from home in this country is practically the same. I would like these Portuguese people to know that there is a minister and several ministers who, while they do not have any money in their pocket, are flocking thousands of euros every month to their own purse, to their own wealth and to their own personal greed. That's what I'd like to see in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]] But no. The Government of Antonio Costa came here to say that it's okay. Announces down in the ISP, but knows that it can do much more and much better; ignores a fact that today we all know, from 12 hours and 15 minutes in the afternoon, i.e., that this year's tax burden was the greatest ever. The Prime Minister, who is right here, symmetrically, below me, impatience and serene, in front of a country that has the greatest tax burden ever in 2021, does not apologize to the Portuguese! If I were Prime Minister today, I would start by coming here and say: "Portuguese, excuse me, because, in fact, expropriating you and continuing to take your money out of your pocket is something that no Prime Minister should do. Do not keep on seeking. ” That's what I'd do here in the gallery! [[Congrats from the CH.]] We are this very curious country in which political parties do not pay IMI (municipal property tax), but Portuguese are sunk in IMI. We are this very curious country, in which we, sitting here, do not pay taxes, the parties do not pay taxes, but the Portuguese, out there, pay an IMI that shames any country in Europe. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u264	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u265	Mr. President, what's not...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u266	Sir, I'm talking. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to create the conditions for listening to the speaker. You may proceed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u267	I do not understand how, while the Hall protest, the time of the Arrival continues to count, but it remains for future memory that this continues to happen. Yes, the parties do not pay IMI and approve measures for the Portuguese to pay more and more IMI. You may yell at your will, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, whoever's out there knows well what I'm talking about! Yes, this is the socialist government that said it would solve the great demographic problems of our time: the problem of birth and its chronic decline, which we have faced throughout Europe. And how do you solve it? Opening the doors to all kinds of immigration! That's how this government wants to open the doors. And we have a Minister of Labour who comes here to say: "No, for the first time there were discounts in much higher number. Of course there have been, we have opened the doors to everyone, it was the policy of 'come in anyway, come to take away everything we have'! And today, we reach the point of having refugees to earn 600 € in Portugal and pensioners to receive 200 €. That's what we have today in Portugal! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, the Minister of Health remained silent during this debate, attached to her own cell phone. I understand — now it is better to keep, Mrs. Minister, everyone is already looking! -,... [[CH's laughs.]] ... there are debates in which it is worth, in fact, nothing to say. After two years of COVID-19, in which consultations remained behind and where millions of Portuguese did not have access to health care, it is best to be silent, when you arrive here, to Parliament. I think it was Wittgenstein who said that, from what you don't know, it's better to keep quiet. In fact, Mrs. Minister, about health chaos, it is better to keep silent. A minister who comes to the presentation of the Government Programme, the Government led by the same man who led us in the previous one, and has no word about millions without consultations,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u268	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u269	... about thousands who did not have their surgical acts performed, about thousands who died for lack of care, about ambulances at the hospital door, while we, at home, witnessed this, improvised and serenely, in this country at the seaside planted. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Three years, I repeat, three years: there are Portuguese, like us, who are not different from us, who are just like us, who spend three years waiting for a consultation. Three years! That's why Mrs. Minister is holding on to her cell phone. It's been three years waiting for a consultation! If I had been waiting for three years for a consultation, if you were all three years waiting for a consultation, we might have thought twice and, instead of just saying second, third and fourth rounds here, we would start by solving a problem that is structural in Portugal and that violates the right of Portuguese to health in this country. Mr President, Prime Minister, today is the International Day of the Roma Communities. As you have already been well remembered today, it is a day when we must not forget the minorities and that conversation that has been feeding us all 47 years—very good! — which is fine for the tea of the five and which we all love to hear. What we do not understand is that this Parliament is always so ready to applaud the gypsy community. And we all see this news: « the first gypsy is licensed» ; « the first gypsy is medical» ; « the first gypsy is judge ». However, we never see news that the gypsies attacked GNR, Alentejo, or firefighters, Alentejo, Lisbon, Porto or Leixões. [[Congrats from the CH.]] This ability to say yes to the Roma community must end in Portugal! Because, yes, the minorities must not be confronted by us, but they cannot be pinned down, to the point of ignoring that they have to have the same duties as all Portuguese! I know that many of those who are seeing us now know well, in Alentejo, in Algarve, around Lisbon or Porto, what I am talking about here. They know that there is a paradise of impunity that still now, in the death of a PSP agent, once again came true. Yes, Prime Minister, there is an escaped gypsy who is in another country after having killed a PSP. And the patriarch of the Gypsy community says that in his own way, in his own time, he will deliver him to justice. On this point, this Parliament has not had a word! My respect for the PSP agent who died in this man's hands. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u270	Mr President, allow me to interrupt you to say that there are no collective responsibilities of guilt in Portugal. [[PPS, IL, PCP, BE, L, standing, PSD, standing members, and PAN.]] [[CH protests.]] I therefore ask you to continue your intervention freely, as is your right, respecting this principle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u271	Mr President, I will resume my speech, telling you this: as a Member, I do not accept that any other Member or the President of the House will limit my intervention in this House. [[Ch's applause, stand up.]] After all, where is April 25, 1974,... [[He's here!Oh, my God!]] [[He's here!Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u272	... where could we express ourselves freely? Oh, my God! [[PS and BE protests and CH counterprotests.]] Now, do you want to take that right away from us? Oh, my God! Mr President, I will continue to use the expression "gypsies" whenever you have to use it and Mr President will, in his right, punish, when you have to sanction, knowing that I will never stop saying what I believe in, in which millions of Portuguese believe, because they know and because they live every day in their skin. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are now talking about government and education. Yes, in a government that says nothing about corruption in its Programme and that also has a State Secretary to be investigated by the DCIP ( Central Department of Investigation and Criminal Action ), I would like to pay tribute to the Public Prosecutor's Office and to all those who, even in the claws of an absolute government, have the ability to pursue their efforts independently. How is it possible for a State Secretary we all know to be under investigation to continue to be a State Secretary? Oh, my God! We know today that there is a questionnaire on education that is going through our entire public space. I want to tell you the questions that are asked to students who are 12 years old: is it possible to be heterosexual either by feeling afraid of people of the same sex as you? Why are there so many heterosexual mental patients? Most sex abusers are heterosexual; do you think it is safe to expose less to heterosexuals? This is being distributed or distributed to 12-year-olds!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u273	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u274	I repeat, 12 years! This is what we're giving our children. Any day, being white and heterosexual is a crime in this country! I am therefore addressing the millions who are outside Portugal to be the most blocking of this minority of interests that want to destroy education in Portugal! [[Congrats from the CH.]] I am addressing the rural world, the farmers, those who know what this country really is and who see, with their eyes, the taxes that they do not stop to increase, the price of food goods that they do not want to increase, the inability to have the minimum production in the hands of an increasingly wild European Union in agriculture, production and the sea. I am addressing the rural world and the fishermen, the farmers, the Tauromachic sector, all those who make Portugal we know. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I address those who make Portugal that we know and that the Socialist Party wants to destroy: have hope, we are still here to defend this deep Portugal that does not fall back on the elites of half Lisbon and that, indeed, wants to be represented. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we have tabled a motion for rejection of this Government Programme. This government is ineffective and will not be able to take us home in times of deep crisis. I appeal directly to the Democratic Social Party and to the Liberal Initiative. [[PS Members' laughs.]] The truth is that we need to clarify today who is on the side where the Left Block and the PCP were — and we saw how they ended up with the taxi and bike party! — or if we really want to be opposed in Portugal. The path that was followed by these two parties stood out: being the puppet and the support of Antonio Costa undeniably leads to destruction and disappearance. The Free, sympathetically, goes the same way. I won't even mention the NAP. I mean you, PSD and IL, directly and, above all, you, Dr. Rui Rio, because I have it as a man who knows how to lead and who is capable of doing it. [[PS laughter.]] Today, when the PSD votes this motion of rejection, I know Dr. Rui Rio is out of party leadership. It is not only in question how the PSD will position itself over the next few years, but whether it will be opposed to the PS or whether it will support this PS government. Today, this legislation will begin and I am addressing you, Dr. Rui Rio, to ask you whether we will be able to create an alternative to the Socialist Party right or whether it is the Arrival, alone, that will have to oppose the Socialist Party. [[Congrats from the CH.]] That's the question I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u275	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u276	I will finish, Mr. President. That's the question I leave you, Dr. Rui Rio, with all the respect you know I have for you. [[Ah!]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u277	What legacy do you want to leave in this PSD: the legacy of collaborating with the PS or joining us in the fight against the PS? [[Ch's applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u278	For the closure intervention on behalf of the PSD, I give the floor to Mr Rui Rio.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u279	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members : Between the programme presented by the PS in the recent legislative elections and that of the Government, which we see here, the difference is little, but the reality we live is substantially different. The unqualified invasion of Ukraine by Russia with intolerable war crimes has transformed the reality that we live in and, above all, the reality that we will be going to live. We will certainly have a slowdown in the globalisation of the economy, with obvious implications for economic growth. We will have to make a greater effort in terms of spending on the area of national defence, with the consequent reflection on the state budget. We will have the « ricochet » effect of the essential economic sanctions to Russia, with an even greater pressure on the prices of raw materials. We will have, tow this pressure, a strong increase in inflation, with the inevitable rise in interest rates, which is particularly painful for Portugal, due to the enormous indebtedness of our society at all levels: state, families and businesses. This new reality, which did not exist on 30 January, but has existed since 24 February, should lead to a greater difference between the two programmes I mentioned. Inflation is, of course, a new phenomenon that significantly changes the circumstances in which the government has to operate. Complying with the promise in the legislative elections implies an income policy that accommodates inflation as we have not known in the past. For the promises made by the PS to be fulfilled and for the given word to be honored, then, the values promised, either for the national minimum wage, for the retirement pensions or for the salaries of the public service, must be adjusted to the level of inflation that we must face. If not, we will have a sharp loss in the purchasing power of pensioners, civil servants and workers in general, that is, the opposite of what has been repeatedly promised. It is even more obvious in this respect that the price of fuels is still high. On them, the tax burden was always heavy, but, with the PS to rule, it reached historic peaks. More than half of the price that the Portuguese pay for gas and gasoline are taxed, which, in respect of VAT, are filling the state's coffers in an amount never previously seen or foreseen. The adjustment of the ISP, announced yesterday, reduces from now on the government's extraordinary gain, but does not cease to maintain the aberration of having families in economic difficulties and the government to profit tax with the war. Taxed more, as it is the timbre of socialist governance, they always give rise to less business initiative and less economic growth. Therefore, greater support for companies was also required in this Programme, in essence, to be seen with the relevance that they really have, which is weak in terms of immediate voting, but which is much, in terms of building a more robust and competitive economy. It is the companies that can create the best jobs and the best wages that we all claim. To support them today is to fulfill the promises of a better life for all Portuguese in the future. To do the opposite, as the PS has commonly done, is in practice to deceive people, whether they like to be deceived or those who, naively, insist on believing in the pink Christmas Father. [[PSD applause.]] It is not worth showing concern about the growing emigration of our young people, when socialist policies continue to bring our average wage closer to the national minimum wage, raising society below. If we want to give young people an opportunity and offer them some future in Portugal, this is not compatible with a short-term vision that only leads to the achievement of easy voting. If we really want to build a country where young people have a future, we must improve our competitiveness by promoting rigour, increasing productivity, rewarding merit and supporting those who have striven to be better prepared to fit into a labour market that we need to be more qualified. To distribute before producing is to promote inflation and external indebtedness. The way is to produce more and better, achieving technologically more advanced and therefore more competitive companies. In fact, the government has even supported some companies, precisely those that should not support: large companies, with greater dependence on the state and political power. There has been no lack of public money for the New Bank, for TAP or for tax losses to EDP. In fact, TAP does not disrespect taxpayers. After having accumulated losses for decades, which the State was painfully paying, it has just received more 3, 2 billion euros, i.e. on average, plus 320 euros from each Portuguese. Still, it has the need to give up its public service obligation, having recently decided to eliminate seven more destinations and 700 more places, in this case from Porto. As far as TAP is concerned, it is time to say'sufficient'. It is a bakery of public money that, due to its negative results and its behaviour, does not deserve the respect of Portuguese taxpayers. [[That's right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u280	With the active complicity of the last two governments, TAP has become even more a bad regional company paid with the money of all of us, even those that it shamefully despises. It is true that the election results legitimize the government in its policy, but that cannot be the reason why the PSD silences its voice of deep disagreement and indignation with what we classify as an authentic shame. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the programme we are considering, it seems to be read in the interlines that the government finally began to realize the misfortune for it to shoot our public services. For decades they were not as inefficient and unmasked as they are today, after six years of a government marked by facilitation and lack of rigour. Removing the citizen card, driving license or passport is today a bureaucratic adventure with which the Portuguese have to live. Incompetence and disillusionment are evident and reach their maximum exponent when social security takes much longer than one year for the simple deferral of the retirement pension of those who have worked their entire lives. [[PSD applause.]] This disorganization is one of an underdeveloped country, a country governed by whom it shows that it has no ability, not even love-self, to manage reasonably the services under its responsibility. The same conclusion must be drawn if we look at the health or justice sector, where performance has also been declining sharply. In health, from waiting lists for surgeries or specialist consultations to the lack of family doctors or the difficulty in getting care in health centers, everything competes for the worrying growth of mortality rate in Portugal. The PS has been able to distort PSD's proposals in the field of health, inventing that we wanted to substantially change the Constitution, but it is in fact the government itself that does not comply with the same Constitution when, in practice, it denies citizens' access to public health services in good time. [[PSD applause.]] In justice, I can repeat to them what I said here at the time of the discussion of the previous government programme, because nothing new happened, because the previous government did nothing relevant in this degraded area of governance: «... the administrative and fiscal courts continue to take a long time to decide ; the procedural tricks continue to rule ; the execution and trade judgments to drag themselves, painfully, to despair of the creditors; the courts to function without conditions; the criminal investigations to be shared in the public square, to the advantage of the human rights opponents and disheartening of the Democrats; and the corporateism to rule in the sector. » So I pronounced myself, and so I must continue to pronounce myself before the apathy and complicit convivence of the government towards such a state of affairs. Mr President, as I have been saying for a long time, it is absolutely clear to me that, almost half a century after 25 April, it has become imperative to revitalize the regime. It is not enough to reduce democracy to its formal component to assess its quality. from a noun point of view, its evolution is the obvious erosion in the hands of time. The growing preponderance of minority powers, which, in a corporate logic, are imposing themselves on a political power with notorious problems of credibility and public respectability, shows a weariness that needs to be corrected through structural reforms at the most different levels. Without these reforms, we will not tear new horizons, nor can we expect degradation to pass like a miracle. Revising the Constitution, reforming the electoral system, modernizing the Law of the Political Parties and its functioning, promoting decentralization and modernizing justice, strengthening the effectiveness and transparency in its functioning, are neurotic aspects for the quality of democracy and for the development potential of the country. They are fundamental aspects of returning the action and decision to those who truly engage in the service of the collective interest and not for the sake of the best interests. This is what we would like to see poured into the political intentions for this legislature. That is what we have not discovered in the political will of those who will continue to rule us. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: By virtue of election results, the PS has all the legitimacy to form government and to present the programme that it fully understands. on the part of the PSD, and as we would expect, we are faced with a document and a political stance in which we do not see ourselves. For us, there would be more rigor and less facilitation, more long-term vision and less marketing concerns, more reformist spirit and less focus on social communication, more business support and less tax burden and, very clearly, less state and more civil society. That's the direction we've always defended. It is therefore with him in mind that with conviction and consistency we will continue to defend the interest of Portugal. [[On your feet, applause from the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u281	For the closing intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u282	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members: This is the first debate of the 15th Parliament. It is the debate of a Government Program based on an absolute majority, which is not absolute power, but a majority built by popular vote, secret, in which each Portuguese in the voting booth could choose and, by choosing, chose the PS and its Election Programme. That is why it is not surprising, and it was very much present throughout the debate, that this Government Programme, of the XXIII Constitutional Government, of our Government, is our Programme, based on the free choice of Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Democracy defends itself every day. Democracy and freedom, which we have conquered, are defended every day. Yes, you have to say that, I have to say: April 25 went right through here. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I should like to stress, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this legislation has been going on longer than the time of the dictatorship. This government has taken over more days of democracy than the fascist dictatorship. This House, the daughter of the popular vote, is the choice of our community, a community that fought for democracy and, it must be said, for a single journey, that has on 25 April 1974 a unique and summit place and that we will celebrate in this Parliament as a single day, « whole and clean», as Sophia said, which allows us, in community, to develop public policies. The country is not today worse than it was on 25 April 1974, despite what some say. The country's better. It is better because it was in community that it developed public policies in education, in the National Health Service, in social security and because collectively, despite democratic differences, it was always able to find solutions to its problems. At the conclusion of this debate on 8 April 2022, an efemeride is also celebrated, and I want to underline it : today it is 49 years from 8 April 1973. On 8 April 1973, the Third Congress of the Democratic Opposition was closed in Aveiro, where among many others were Maria Barroso, Aarons de Carvalho, Pedro Coelho or Manuel José Tengarrinha. On 8 April 1973, a democratic Portugal was discussed. The historical evocation that I make is not only a worthy witness to those who at the time fought for democracy in Aveiro, it is because they continue to be the inspiration, the continuing concern we have in the defense of democracy and freedom. And here, in this Chamber, nothing is done without democracy and without freedom. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Deputies, Mr. Members, Portugal is currently facing a central challenge: that of adjusting its model of growth and economic development to the legitimate expectations of the so-called 'better-prepared generation'. It is here that there is an important part of the potential for innovation, creativity, new know-how, after years of investment in education, vocational training, science, research and development centres, in the qualification of people and institutions, which, above all, allowed to change expectations, build a new reality in the country, change the value profile of the Portuguese economy. If it is true that much is about to be done, the truth is that today the country is able to produce more complex goods and services, with more value added, with a more cohesive community. That is the ambition to pursue this path. This ambition is to build a future of opportunities that is well reflected in the XXIII Constitutional Government Programme. And that is why this Government Programme, based on the Socialist Party Programme, is essentially a Programme to harness the energy of everyone, the energy of everyone, the energy of those who are able to innovate and transform, but always, always without leaving anyone behind, seeking to pay better the work, seeking to pay better the factors of production, but continuing to bet on the qualifications and opportunities that only the younger ones must and can grasp so that we can have a more cohesive country, with sustainable public policies, and not to break the intergenerational bond that is fundamental to keeping our community cohesive and social justice. [[P.S.'s applause.]] For those who say that Portugal has not changed, that everything is the same, that Portugal of 2022 is worse than Portugal of the past, left two points. In 1986, when Portugal joined the European Economic Community, past 10 years of the April Revolution, almost 40 % of exports of goods were from the textile, clothing and footwear sector, based on low wages, with a competitiveness centred on low labour wages. Today, Portugal exports much more. Not only much more textile, clothing and footwear, but Portugal exports more value added, with better wages, and was able, with an open economy last year, to exceed for the first time 75 % of foreign direct investment in gross domestic product. This is a modern country, open with an industrial matrix, with an increasingly value profile closer to our European Union counterparts. This is a country with more opportunities, that has changed, but that has to continue to change. And, if it is true that this territory has changed, it has changed the concrete reality of each Portuguese. It is true that more opportunities must be created, that the synchronisation between qualifications and the supply of the labour market remains a challenge that we must develop, but it is also true that, if we are not able to do so together in the community, if we are not able to develop the appropriate public policies in the qualification of people and institutions, if we leave each one of us, if we leave the community and follow the example of the neoliberals, of the 'each one', the community will relax, as said: less opportunities for the poorest, more concentration of wealth, more social injustice. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, emigration is legitimate. Emigration, leaving, knowing other territories is legitimate. Portugal and the Portuguese have left and it is good to welcome different people also in our country. But emigration for necessity is not fair. Emigration is not fair because we have to emigrate. Emigration because we do not have the conditions to fulfill what we want for our lives is not fair and it must not be possible to happen in our territory. But the great truth, the big question is that, in order to do so collectively, we must maintain our status as a social state as a precious asset, with public education, with the National Health Service, because otherwise, lords of the Liberal Initiative, will stay together and leave others, the richest and the poorest will depart. And with us, that's not it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[IL protests.]] That is why the Government presents an ambitious agenda for young people. That is why the Government presents the IRS Young, an ambitious and coherent housing policy and also the Return Programme. Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members, this was the moment chosen by the Portuguese people so that the Socialist Party, as the central party of Portuguese democracy, could exercise the absolute majority, could have the absolute majority in this House. The absolute majority is not a refuge for the Portuguese—it is a choice for the Portuguese. It is a choice because they have the confidence and security that this Program is the Program that best serves your life, your choices, your options. But it is a choice that not only enables the Socialist Party to carry out its Programme, but also necessarily sends it to us—because the absolute majority, as I said, is not absolute power—to be able with each of the democratic oppositions to discuss the alternatives, to improve the proposals. But, of course, this Government Programme is the Government's programme chosen by the Portuguese and, if there is no absolute majority that is absolute power, neither is there any absolute minority that hinders the absolute majority in achieving its objectives. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members, Parliament will soon be confronted with a motion of rejection; but it is more a motion of rejection presented to the PS opposition than a motion of rejection to the Government itself. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u283	Let's see!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u284	During this debate of the Government Programme, no alternative was presented.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u285	It was only 20 alternatives!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u286	No alternative. This Government Programme is the majority programme, but it is also the only Programme which, in addition to democratic legitimacy, was naturally discussed in this Chamber. And the absolute majority of 120 Members is the absolute majority that not only guarantees the viability of the government, even with openness to the oppositions, is a majority that supports here four and a half years of government and, when a motion of rejection is presented, it is good, it is responsible for another majority in this Chamber. But once again, we have a motion of rejection that is not a motion of rejection to the government, because there cannot be another, but a friend caught from the extreme right with the democratic right.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u287	That was you with the left. You've been dating for six years!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u288	Therefore, right now, we must tell the Portuguese with quietness, with confidence: your choice will be respected. The PS is here to ensure that this happens. [[On your feet, applause from the PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u289	You have the floor to make the closing statement on behalf of the Government, Mrs. Minister of the Presidency, Mariana Vieira da Silva, which I welcome in this first speech in plenary in the 15th Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u290	Mr President: Allow me, in this which is my first intervention in this Parliament, to greet Mr President for his election, which honors us so much, and that, in his own person, health to the ladies and gentlemen. Members, who in this House represent the Portuguese in their plurality and diversity, wishing all a good mandate. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the last day and a half, this House discussed the XXIII Constitutional Government Programme. And what we were able to see was the same kind of accusations and predictions that were made here in 2015 and 2019: that the policies then planned would destroy employment and penalize growth, that we would not be prepared to rule in difficult times, that we were not preparing the country for the challenges of the future. They guaranteed it in the past. They said it today. They have failed in the past and will fail today as well. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The truth is this: the prognosis and bad auguries that the oppositions here presented were denied year after year. Disclaimed by the facts. And denied by the votes of the Portuguese. All the evils seen were denied by the facts: in employment, income, growth and budgetary policy. We have today, despite the pandemic, the levels of employment in historical peaks; we converged with the European Union in 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019 and we will resume this path as early as 2022 ; the national minimum wage has risen 40% since 2015 and the average net income of the employed population rose 23 % ; we had the first positive budget balance of democracy and, despite the pandemic, in 2021 we are already below 3 %. The pessimisms of the oppositions have also been defeated by the votes; every time the Portuguese were called to the polls in legislative elections since 2015, they have given more strength to the path we have seen trailing and to the policies we have been pursuing. The programme we have presented is, therefore, the same as it could not fail to be, which was borne by the voters. And the composition of this House is, in fact, the most faithful representation of the majority approval of the Portuguese to this Government, to the programme we have presented and discussed here, to the strategy we have defined for the country and also to its results. The voters vote to choose Members, but also to choose an electoral programme, a way to their country. It forms a government that has the capacity to approve its programme. What we have seen in the last day and a half is that it seems that some parties were waiting for the government to take stock of their electoral commitments and election results and to appear here with the ideas and agenda of the opposition parties. And let's not be mistaken. We can have—and very well— in this House criticisms, often symmetrical, from left to right. But out there, this was the way that the Portuguese chose to Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is a programme of challenges and convictions. We are well aware that the climate and environmental challenge is decisive and urgent. And Portugal can overcome this challenge if it strengthens the weight of renewables, invests more in energy efficiency and increases the weight of the circular economy. These are the responses that give shape to the Government Programme. We know that we do not consolidate the path to development for all if we do not respond to the demographic crisis we live in. And we can respond to this crisis if we move forward with the Dignified Work Agenda and the conciliation agenda, with the commitment of day care for all and accessible housing, if we do not give up an open country to sustainable and inclusive immigration. These are the commitments that give meaning to this programme. We know that we have an opportunity for convergence and development, but that we will only do so if we are prepared and fully exploit the digital transition. And we can take advantage of this opportunity if we take a new leap in qualifications, if we bet on knowledge, science, innovation to transform our productive fabric and if we bet on digitization to make companies and public administration more productive and more capable of giving effective answers to the needs of citizens. And that is why we are making commitments and measures here. Finally, we know that combating inequalities is an imperative of social justice and citizenship, but also of sustainable growth. And we can respond to this challenge if we carry out a fight without hindrance to poverty, if we bet on supporting childhood and education to eradicate the reproduction of poverty, if we increase the weight of wages in the country's wealth and if we continue to remove obstacles to the full personal, social and professional realization of women, because a country that abdicates the full potential of half its population is self-limiting its development. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And, once again, these are the policies that are included in this Programme. This is a programme that pursues the path of growth and development, a path of convergence with the European Union. This is a project for four and a means of intense work, focused on the recovery of the country, which responds to the needs of families and businesses, in order to achieve more prosperity, justice and equality. And this was the way of progress, of eyes placed in the future, that the Portuguese chose for Portugal. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, another of the criticisms here very repeated was that the government will not be prepared to respond to the emergency of the moment we live. After two and a half years of hearing that the previous government has done nothing more than respond to the demands of the pandemic, it is not surprising to hear this accusation now. In the face of an unprecedented and absolutely unexpected crisis, we have been able to adapt to the circumstances that have profoundly altered the conditions of governance and have been able to design unpublished public policies to respond to this emergency, ensuring the vitality of our economic fabric and ensuring that no one was left behind. We have already demonstrated that we are fighting in Europe for the best solutions to the problems we share. We did it in response to the pandemic. We are doing so in response to the crisis caused by the Russian invasion of Ukraine. In the difficulties we already know and in those we do not yet imagine, but which may come, come what comes, here we will be to answer, to protect the Portuguese and defend Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was precisely a government with this ability to respond to the most unimaginable conditions and to the greatest storms that the Portuguese chose for Portugal. That is why today the measures announced yesterday by the Prime Minister will still be adopted. These are measures that add to the measures we have already taken and that we will take whenever necessary. The current price evolution, which all institutions currently assess as a conjuncural, imposes immediate action. An action that responds to inflationary pressures, acting on prices rather than on measures that may, in fact, have the perverse effect of exacerbating inflation. Sometimes the simple answers no longer make it worse than the problems we want to respond to. These measures aim, as has already been said, to contain energy prices, in particular with the fall of the ISP equivalent to the reduction of VAT to 13 %; support companies, bearing part of the energy costs of the energy intensive industries; support families, extending support to the most vulnerable aggregates; and accelerate energy transition, with emphasis on reducing the VAT of electrical equipment that enables families to lower gas dependence. Often, over the last day and a half, there seemed to be a strange conviction in some parliamentary groups that there is a rigid frontier between structural commitments and conjunctural responses. But I ask you: where would we be, ladies and gentlemen? Ladies and gentlemen, in response to inflation in energy prices if we had not advanced, as we have done, in the energy transition? Where would we be without strengthening the income of families? Where would we be without the reinforcement we did in our national scientific system? Our ambition is not to allow the conjuncural pressure to overcome the structural challenges, so many of them so urgent, but also to make structural responses support the emergence of the environment. And it was also this ability to consistently reconcile structural advances with the conjunctural responses that the Portuguese chose for Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, to implement the Programme, to govern Portugal, we will always be attentive to the voices of all. We will be open to political convergence and political and social dialogue. But no one doubts: we will be faithful to our history and to our values. We know that this is a critical moment in the history of Europe and the world, but we defend our unique legacy, the heritage of those who have always believed it was possible to reconcile firmness and tolerance, freedom and equality, Portugal and Europe. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today, as in the recent past, we have the awareness of the firmness needed to guarantee the freedom to invest and create, to innovate and to undertake. Without that freedom, progress is a far-reaching goal, if not even unattainable. But we also know the urgency of saying that human development requires strong and effective public policies. This was the case in the past, with the eradication of child labour, with compulsory schooling, with universal health, with the protection of the most fragile. They were always the rule of law and the strength of public and state policies that made us move forward into a more decent society. That was in the past. It will have to be so in the present and in the future, guaranteeing equity, stimulating innovation, supporting the weakest, never mortgageting social cohesion to the interests of the strongest. [[P.S.'s applause.]] To pursue this path of ambition and balance between a dynamic and innovative economy and a strong and sustainable social state, the Government of the Republic has decisive resources. It has the resources of the PRR and other structural funds, for which there are few beatings. It has the resources of a free but determined support of the majority of this House. Above all, however, it has the calmness and conviction that has come to us from the fact that this has been the path that the people have chosen. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This path, and not any other, that may be and should be discussed in this House. That is why we will be here, in other words, to comply with it by the Portuguese and Portuguese. For Portugal! [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u291	Thank you very much, Minister. We have thus concluded the closing period of the debate on the Government's programme and therefore this whole debate. Making use of a right as Article 217. the Rules of Procedure grant it, the proposed parliamentary group of the motion of rejection, the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, requested an interruption of work for 15 minutes, so we will resume them at 17 hours and 5 minutes. I ask everyone to appear at that time. The session is interrupted. [[It was 16 hours and 51 minutes.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. [[It was 17 hours and 5 minutes.]] Mrs. Members of the Government, I ask you to occupy your seats. [[Pause.]] I believe that we are in a position to move on to the voting period, and the first concerns the motion for a rejection of the Government Programme, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival. I'm asking all of you and all of you. Members who have not yet done so to register their presence. I request the services to operate the quorum verification system necessary for the vote. I recall that the vote on the motion for a rejection requires the clearance of a qualified majority and we will therefore turn to the electronic vote. This means that, since the quorum verification system is open, Mr. Members and Members of Parliament should register for this purpose for quorum clearance. Anyone who does not register now will be prevented from voting because the system will prevent it. Therefore, all must be registered for quorum verification purposes. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the electronic table records 225 presences, which means that we have quorum to vote. In any case, I wonder whether any Member or some Member has not been able to register. If this has happened, I ask you to indicate it to the Bureau. [[Pause.]] I believe that a Member of the PSD board could not register. Do you ask the honourable Member for a word?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u292	Yes, Mr. President, I can't register.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u293	All right, Mr. Deputies, it's registered. We shall then proceed to the vote on motion of rejection No 1 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — of the XXIII Constitutional Government Programme. If you vote in favour, please stand up and vote in the electronic system in this regard. [[Pause.]] Those who vote against will do their best to stand up and carry on their own symbol in the electronic system. [[Pause.]] Anyone who abstains will do the favor of getting up and loading in their respective electronic symbol. [[Pause.]] All present were able to exercise their right to vote, but there are colleagues who, because they are in custody, are attending and participating in the session remotely, so I give the floor to Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to proceed with their identification and to grant them the opportunity to exercise their right to vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u294	Mr President, I call Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u295	Good afternoon.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u296	Madam Member, I ask you to tell the House how you vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u297	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u298	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I now ask Mrs Alexandra Tavares de Moura of the Socialist Party to tell us how she votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u299	Good afternoon, I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u300	Thank you very much. I now call Mrs Cristina Mendes da Silva of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u301	Good afternoon.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u302	Good afternoon, Mrs. Deputy. Can you tell us how you vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u303	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u304	Thank you very much. Mr President, the vote is over.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u305	We are in a position to indicate the result of the vote on motion of rejection No 1 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — of the XXIII Constitutional Government Programme. [[Having put to the vote, he did not obtain the votes of the absolute majority of Members in office effectiveness, with 133 votes against (120 of the PS, 6 of the PCP, 5 of the BE, 1 of the PAN and 1 of the L), 12 votes in favour (CH) and 81 abstentions (73 of the PSD and 8 of the IL).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u306	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u307	Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u308	Mr President, it is in order to inform the Bureau that we shall make a written statement of vote on this vote and to inform the Bureau that in accordance with Rule 77. the Rules of Procedure, we intend to make an intervention of protest regarding what happened.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u309	Mr President, I do not remember, but I do not think that the Rules of Procedure allow protest interventions to be made at the end of the vote. So if there is no objection, then we will. Mrs. Members, let us now proceed to the vote on the draft resolution No 1 / XV / 1. a ( PAR) — List and composition of standing parliamentary committees. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We then vote on the Resolution Project No. 18 / XV / 1. a ( PAR) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Madrid and Málaga. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's now hear the protest put forward by the Arrival. Mr. André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u310	Mr President, using the minute that the Arrival has for the protest, I would like to make the following clear: I have no memory, and certainly many Portuguese will not, of an intervention made in the Assembly of the Republic by a Member elected by the Portuguese people, with the same legitimacy as all others, be interrupted by the President of the Assembly of the Republic... [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u311	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to create the conditions for Mr Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u312	I have no memory, Mr President, of a Member elected by the Portuguese people, as much as everyone here is, to be interrupted by the President of the Assembly of the Republic in relation to the content of his speech. Of course, since 25 April, which will be celebrated in a few days' time, there has been no such thing in this House as a censorship act on a party and on a parliamentary group. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS and L protests.]] That is why, Mr President, this protest is directed directly at you. I believe that under the Rules of Procedure you can make a counterprotest if you so understand. [[Congrats from the CH.]] In any case, I wanted to keep track of, for future memory and for the Portuguese who are seeing us, that since today, April 8, there are words in this House that can be used and others that cannot be used. What a fine example of censorship when we celebrate April 25th! Open... [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u313	Mr, Article 89 ( 3 ). the Rules of Procedure determine the following: 'The speaker is warned...' — he does not say he can be warned, he says he is warned! — '... by the President of the Assembly...', who I myself am, '...when he deviates from the subject under discussion or when the speech becomes insulting or offensive, he may withdraw his word. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[P.S.P.'s applause, standing up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u314	It wasn't the case!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u315	What I have done was to comply with this obligation that the Assembly of the Republic, which is sovereign and has approved its own Rules of Procedure, commits me and I intend to do so whenever necessary. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, before reading the agenda of the next plenary session, I should like to make it clear that, having been voted on and rejected by the motion for a rejection of the Government's programme, the Government has its programme duly approved by the Assembly of the Republic and now fully performs its functions. [[PS applause, stand up.]] Of course, I wish the Government the greatest happiness in carrying out their duties. I remind the House that the next plenary meeting will take place on Wednesday, April 13. The first item contains political statements and, secondly, a debate on the situation in Ukraine, followed, exceptionally, by a period of votes. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your participation in the debate and good weekend.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u316	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u317	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u318	Mr President, I apologize, but do we not need to vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-08.u319	All the votes have been taken, Mrs Deputies, but in any case I thank you for your speech. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 21 minutes.]]
