ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs and Secretary of State for Civil Protection. The Bureau shall present the VV. Ex. His compliments. The session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 2 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the gates of the galleries to the public, please. Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha will immediately report a set of information that is of greatest relevance to all of us. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u2	Mr President, very late for everyone. I am going to announce that they have entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr. President, Bills No. 263 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 284 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 286 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission, 287 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 288 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission, 289 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 8. The Commission, in connection with 5. a and 6. a Commissions, 290 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) and 292 / XV / 1. a ( BE), lowering to 8. the Commission, 293 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 295 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 297 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 7. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission, 298 and 299 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), down to 5. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission, 300 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 304 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 305 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 306 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which drops to 1. the Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission, 307 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, and 308 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which drops to 1. the Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau and were also admitted to Resolution Projects Nos 229 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which drops to 8. the Commission, and 230 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which falls to 4. the Commission. I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary. Let us then move on to our agenda, fully devoted to the Government's Question No 2 / XV / 1. a (CH) — On successive failures in the fight against fires. To open this debate, I have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr André Ventura, to whom I remember that he has 10 minutes for this intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The reason why we are here today is easy to understand. The disaster that was the socialist management of fires in Portugal led us, as a parliamentary group, to assume what others preferred not to do, i.e. to confront the government with the incredible failures...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u5	Mr President, I would ask you to stop your speech for a few moments. I call on all the Members and all the Members. Members who occupy their seats and create the conditions for us to proceed with this debate. [[Pause.]] They wanted to take your seats, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Pause.]] Please proceed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. I said that the reason we are here today is the disaster that socialist management has printed on fires in Portugal. This debate, which should have been held at the peak of fire in Portugal, is held today to determine responsibilities for what happened. And what happened was too serious and had too many consequences: it was too serious for the populations, too severe for the land, too serious for Portugal. That is why we could not start this debate, with all this seriousness above, without noting that the Minister of Internal Administration did not deserve to be present when we have to take responsibility for the fires in Portugal. You were not worthy to be here in the Assembly of the Republic! [[Congrats from the CH.]] This morning, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration had a meeting with experts on the management of rural fires, but he was not worthy to come to the place where and before which he must respond to the Portuguese and the Assembly of the Republic. And this, if I had not already shown the authoritarian tick of the absolute majority, the contempt for the institutions and the contempt for Parliament, would show the new attitude of the Socialist Party, which is that in the face of the crisis, in the face of the problems, in the face of the seriousness of matters, to take refuge in their palaces and government offices, without having the courage to come face to face.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u8	We saw this with the Minister of Justice. We saw this with the Minister of Health. We had the Minister for Parliamentary Affairs to talk about PJ ( Judicial Police ) and Europol. Today, we have the Secretary of State for Civil Protection to give the face and answer that Mr. Minister should give. Be ashamed, Minister, and come to Parliament when you have to explain! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mrs. Members, this year, Portugal had the highest percentage of burned area in Europe. I'd like everyone at home to hear us out. Portugal had the highest percentage of burned area throughout Europe. Portugal had the third largest burning area, in absolute terms, of all Europe. They now compare the size of the Portuguese territory with that of the Spanish territory, for example, with that of the French territory, or with that of the Romanian territory, and they will see the seriousness of what we are saying. In the face of this tragedy, which resulted in deaths, in numbers of these, in lives lost, in destroyed lands, in dead animals, in destroyed properties, the Minister understood that it was not the day to come to the Assembly of the Republic. Mr. President and Mr. Members: If in 2017, in the tragedy of Pedrógão Grande, everything failed in 2022 almost everything failed; if in 2017 the tragedy fell on Portugal, we can say that in 2022 only a miracle guaranteed that the tragedy was not greater, because on the part of the government, everything did so that the tragedy, at least, was similar. I would like to refer to a number in this House to mark once again the absence of Mr. Minister of Internal Administration. In 40 years, my friends—in 40 years! — Portugal has lost the equivalent of half its continental area. In 40 years, half of the country was burned and the Minister thinks it is more important to be drinking coffee in the ministry than to come to Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u10	This has a word,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u11	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u12	... a word we use very much: shame! Shame of Government, that it is not worthy to be answered to Portugal! [[Congrats from the CH.]] The Natural Park of Serra da Estrela, the largest protected area in Portugal, of its 101,000 ha, has seen 26,000 ha burn, but the Minister understood that today was not a good day to come to the Assembly of the Republic. In Leiria, in the large fires that again struck this district, firefighters were forced to use alternative communication systems because once again the SIRESP (Integrated System of Emergency and Security Networks of Portugal) did not work. But where is the Minister? Taking coffee with the Prime Minister! Where is the Minister, before death, before life, before destruction? Where is he? Oh, my God! Isn't that where Wally is? , is it « where is José Luís Carneiro? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Where is he? Oh, my God! It's just that we liked him being here today, and that's where he should be! And, Mrs. Minister, excuse me, excuse me for looking at me! There is nowhere in the world where the Minister, when he sees his country burning, should be today that he is not here in this Parliament! There is no place in the world where he should be! There is no place in the world where he should be! He was here! [[Congrats from the CH.]] But political cowardice is like this today, and it will always be that way, and that is why it is here to face this political cowardice.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u14	Mrs. Minister, Secretary of State, we are talking about 26 000 ha of the largest protected area in Portugal. In Palmela, civil protection failed again in the aid against fires. This was not denounced by the Arrival, but by the president himself of the humanitarian association of volunteer firefighters, in such a way that the Civil Protection Association returned this year to hand over to the Attorney-General of the Republic — who I hope will launch the proper investigation — a letter on what failed in the SIRESP. Of course, the government had a great deal of money on its side.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u15	The anti-smoker gums! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u16	Mr. Prime Minister had Kamov helicopters. I have here some images of the Kamov helicopters, which I would like the whole country to see, and which I would like the Assembly of the Republic to see. The speaker displayed the images he mentioned. They must be in the same place where Mr. Minister of Internal Administration is : hidden! They're hiding in a garage! [[Mr Pedro Pinto's laughs.]] It's 42 million of our taxes,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u17	...costs on these helicopters, which were useless! While the Portuguese died, while their areas were destroyed, the government spent money on helicopters that were stopped. This is the mirror of the socialist government! It's the mirror of the disaster, of the waste, it's the mirror of the inefficiencies of your management. Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, during this summer, we all witnessed extraordinary things, such as news such as this: "Incendiary left in freedom has destroyed six more fires during the summer. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u18	Great! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u19	I would like the country to look at this: "Incendiary left in freedom has shot six more fires during the summer. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u20	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u21	“ Cruel!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u22	How is that possible? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u23	But I'm sure the people who saw their homes burn, their dead animals and their families in danger understand what we're saying.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u24	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u25	It is not up to justice to do what the law does not allow, it is up to this Parliament to guarantee what I am going to say now, in all words: a good incendiary is incendiary in prison! [[Congrats from the CH.]] This is what we have to say to Portugal: a good incendiary is incendiary in prison, not where the PS and the extreme left want them, who is out here, to continue doing what they have done over the past few years. Unfortunately, the PS told us you don't have to put them in jail. No need! And I quote António Costa :« We will do the rehabilitation process that has never been done in Portugal. “ Maybe it would be a laugh if it wasn’t a tragedy. But this news, which I have here, is this year and says that the rehabilitation of the arsonists promised in 2018 — imagine! — is at an experimental stage. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's laughs.]] It is like all the committees of the Socialist Party, in the experimental phase of study, analysis, weighting. This is how, as the country burns, as long as half the territory burns. It will pass this winter and the heat will come back again, with the same dramas as ever, and we are in experimental phase. The Government is in the experimental stage and the Secretary of State, if she is not fired for next month, will also be in the experimental stage. But I am glad that the Secretary of State is here because I have long wanted to be with you in Parliament. A long time ago! You know why, Secretary of State? Because these are your words which I shall now read to Parliament: 'It only burned 70% of the area we expected to have burned. And the Secretary of State Patrícia Gaspar said: "Therefore, the scenario is not as catastrophic as we expected. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Mr Filipe Melo's laughs.]] And today here is the Secretary of State who said that the scenario wasn't so bad. You know what I liked? I would like to see everyone in front of this Parliament come, all those who saw their houses destroyed and their land burned down, those who ran to and fro through the mountains of Leiria outside. I wish they were all here in front of Parliament! And that they would say, "Look, Madam Secretary of State, do you know what your algorithm is worth to us? Do you know what your algorithm is worth to us? It's zero! Zero of compassion, zero of empathy, zero of tolerance with who treats the Portuguese. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Congrats from the CH.]] I ask you, and you should not be the Secretary of State, but, yes, the Minister of Internal Administration — eyes in your eyes, if you still trust your work. It is because those who say this in the middle of the fires—and I apologize if I offend you— do not deserve to be in the place where the Secretary of State is now. This Parliament has the task of monitoring the government and, if it gives someone a note today, it should be the departure note of the Secretary of State. But it was not just the Secretary of State who failed and offended the Portuguese. Minister Mariana Vieira da Silva, number two of the government, said that until the greenhouse of the Star will get better...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u26	Go, go! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u27	...and that, therefore, we had an opportunity with these fires. The Vice President of the Chamber of Covilhã, also socialist, did not say better: "These fires are a great opportunity. Do not keep on seeking. ” I wish everyone — everyone! — they were out there and those who are seeing us at home really realized what this government said about their lives, their properties, their futures, their dreams.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u28	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u29	I will finish, Mr. President. I'd like you to know that's how they were treated. This debate, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, this is about the tragedy of the administration of an absolute majority government that failed to look at its own and failed them at the most difficult time in their lives.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u30	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u31	I do not expect anything from you, Madam Secretary of State, but resignation at the end of this debate. [[Ch's applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u32	The next item is the opening statement by the Secretary of State for Civil Protection.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, the Government is presenting itself in this Parliament to respond to an inquiry on combating rural fires. Do so not only because of constitutional and regulatory duty, but also in the expectation that this debate will be able to add the contributions of the different political forces that make up this House, in order to improve the response of the civil protection system to rural fires. Today's world is quite different from what we've known 10 or 20 years ago. The challenges we face today call for a generational battle against an enemy without mercy, who does not recognize borders or regimes. Climate change is not a myth, nor so little an excuse: climate change is perhaps the biggest crisis and the greatest emergency we face in Portugal, Europe and the world. The dramatic images that we have seen this year in newspapers and televisions cannot leave us indifferent. It is the heritage of all who are lost, are forests, that have grown for decades, that disappear in a few hours, are animals and ecosystems, so often unique, irremediably affected, is the work, dedication and life savings of so many Portuguese people who burn, are lives in danger. Hostel-a-Velha, Alvaiázere, Ancião, Carrazada de Elders, Mesão Frio, Murça, Ourem and Vila Real were some of the municipalities most affected by rural fires in July and August. The most expressive example, however, cannot fail to be the great fire of the Serra da Estrela, in August, with economic and environmental losses of an unparalleled dimension in the municipalities of Celorico da Beira, Covilhã, Gouveia, Guarda, Manteigas and Seia. For all this, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, in this rostrum, to convey a word of solidarity to all those who have somehow been affected by rural fires in the representation of the Minister of Internal Administration. In 2017, Portugal cried the loss of so many lives and the territory became stained by destruction. Since then, on the basis of the analysis and proposals of the Independent Technical Commission established by this Parliament, the Government has carried out a thorough reform of the civil protection system based on three fundamental principles: the approximation between prevention and combat, the professionalization and training of the system and its specialization.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u34	It's okay! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u35	Since then, the Government has implemented the institutional reform of the National Emergency and Civil Protection Authority ( National Emergency Authority ( National Emergency and Protection Authority ), which is worth highlighting the adoption of a new territorial model, based on regional and sub-regional structures, which aims at a greater approach to populations. As regards the approach between prevention and combat, one of the lessons learned from the 2017 fires was the imperative need to strengthen institutional coordination and cooperation. It was thus approved the Integrated Rural Fire Management System, which aims to strengthen coordination among all civil protection agents and which involves a strategy for the different phases inherent in rural fires. Having been approved and entered into force at the end of 2021, but incorporating measures that have been implemented since 2018, this is a fundamental instrument for greater coordination of all entities involved in prevention, in the self-protection systems of people and infrastructure, with emphasis on the programmes Aldeia Segura and Seguras, in the mechanisms to support decision-making and in the fighting device. In addition, I note that the revision of fundamental regulatory instruments at the operational level, including the Integrated System of Protection and Relief Operations and the Operations Management System, is at its final stage. Also in this context, the Government approved in 2021 the National Strategy for Preventive Civil Protection 2030, which will guide the action of all government areas over the next 10 years — an innovative and pioneering instrument in meeting international policies defended in the context of disaster risk reduction. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government has strengthened the aspects of prevention and surveillance, in particular by intensifying campaigns for forest cleaning and strengthening control actions, but awareness of risk must be an effort taken by all, involving national authorities, municipalities, Freguess, forest producer organisations or farmers and all civil society. We have been working on planning and preparation to ensure that combat forces are able to operate safely and efficiently. This is what happens every day and enables more than 90 % of rural fires, even under extreme adversity, to be resolved in the first 90 minutes. The mechanism for combating rural fires has been strengthened annually, both in human and material means. In 2022, the device was the largest ever, involving nearly 13 000 operations and nearly 3000 land-based media. In the context of the means of combating rural fires, the Government is building a state-owned air resources system under the management of the Air Force, with 14 air assets between 2022 and 2026 including 2 heavy amphibious aircraft using Community funds exceeding EUR 70 million and 12 helicopters financed by the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Programme ) in more than EUR 63 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u36	How is that possible? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u37	In total, between own resources and leased, the aircraft device this year was 60 aircraft, which represents an unprecedented financial and logistical effort. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Apart from air resources, the Government will acquire more operational vehicles over the past 40 years, particularly in the fight against fires.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u38	Kamov? Oh, my God! Are you going to buy more Kamov? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u39	These will be allocated to firearms, special civil protection force, the operational structure of the National Emergency and Civil Protection Authority and the Emergency Protection and Relief Unit of the GNR ( Republican National Guard). This is a financial effort greater than EUR 20 million under the RPP which allows the acquisition and distribution of more than 220 vehicles of different types. However, investments are not exhausted in both air and land. The Government continues to invest heavily in the firefighters sector, with constant and significant increases in the ongoing financing of humanitarian firefighters'associations, and has also strengthened the sharing of the costs resulting from firefighters'interventions in the field of protection and relief operations and the amounts transferred to the Firefighter Social Protection Fund. Also at the level of equipment, the Government launched the international public competition for the provision of services to the SIRESP emergency network, which will allow the modernisation and strengthening of the state emergency communications network. At the level of training, we continue to bet on strengthening teaching and training in civil protection, particularly through the National School of Firearms, an institution that is assumed as an instrument for raising knowledge and technical training of the elements of firearms bodies and other civil protection agents. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u40	No one's applauding back there!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u41	In turn, in parallel with the recognition of the importance of volunteering, the Government places on the increase in the professionalization of its agents who integrate the civil protection system. in this sense, 734 permanent intervention teams are already authorized, serving nearly 3000 firefighters in this scheme, in an effort financially supported, in equal parts, between the National Emergency and Civil Protection Authority and their municipal chambers. Let me mention, with particular pride, that since the beginning of this year, a mechanism is planned to promote gender diversity in the composition of permanent intervention teams, a small step in the right direction. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Ah! Is that important?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u42	That's gonna solve everything! Transsexual firefighters! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The measures I have just mentioned are a mirror of the government's commitment to strengthen the aspects of prevention and combating rural fires. Our commitment to reduce the number of occurrences and their resulting damage is total. Still, the occurrence of great fires this summer gave us at least two teachings.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u44	And in 2017 they didn't learn anything? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u45	First, these fires confirm that climate change requires a change in how we manage the territory, especially when this territory is depopulated or inhabited by an aging population. A process that summons all political and social forces to find a sustained response to this new reality. Secondly, the fires this summer proved the great complexity of combat operations, particularly in extreme conditions. The fire of the Star Serra is, in this sense, paradigmatic. Others will also deserve to be studied. Now it is important to analyze and learn with humility how the entire civil protection system has responded to the enormous challenges it has faced. Thus, the Government has determined the start of a process of technical evaluation independent of the major fires this summer, which will enable us to know better what has happened, what needs to be adapted and what needs to be corrected. The only sensible option today is to have the courage to evaluate the events of 2022, adjust what is necessary and continue the daily work to protect lives, heritage and environment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Government will continue to do everything possible to ensure that Portugal is an increasingly resilient and more secure country for all.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u46	We need to be more resilient! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, a final word of recognition: the civil protection system is based, above all, on women and men who, every day, with personal and family sacrifice, respond to the call to protect and help their citizens. Therefore, on behalf of the Government, I am grateful for the effort, generosity and dedication of all civil protection agents, with a particular word for the Portuguese firefighters who are part of the firefighting device in the countryside this difficult year. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u48	You must conclude, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u49	I conclude now, Mr President. Above all, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I thank, gratefully, for the resilience of our autarchs, our citizens, who, in a committed and so often silent manner, contribute to the strengthening of the Portuguese civil protection system and the security of our entire society. To all a sincere thank you. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u50	Let's move on to the clarification request period. I remember that the time available for each clarification request is 2 minutes. They signed up to request clarification from the Secretary of State 16 Mr. Members and the Bureau do not register entries for requests for clarification to Mr André Ventura. Mr Bruno Nunes ( CH ), Mrs Eurídice Pereira ( PS ), Mr Rui Rocha ( IL ), Mrs Alma Rivera ( PCP ), Mr Pedro Filipe Soares ( BE ), Mr João Moura ( PS ), Mrs Inês Sousa Real ( PAN ), Mr Rui Tavares ( L ), Mr João Carlos Alexandrino ( PS ), Mr João Dias ( PCP ), Mr Nuno Fazenda ( PS ), Mrs Rita Matias ( CH ) and the Members. Deputies Susana Amador, Joaquim Barreto, Antonio Monteirinho and Francisco Oliveira. These are the names of the ladies and gentlemen. Members who will make requests for clarification to the Secretary of State for Civil Protection, who will respond in groups of six, five and five. First of all, Mr Bruno Nunes of the Czech Republic has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u51	Mr President-in-Office, Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you say that we have all seen the climate change, that is, we are going to blame for the heat. What you deserved, with the curriculum you have, which is worthy, was that firefighters put their helmets here and refused to work for the lack of recognition that they have by this government and for the lack of support. And we saw, once again, the lamentable images of the firemen, eating by handcuffs, lying on the ground. [[Congrats from the CH.]] That is the shame, not to mention the issue, which has already been mentioned here today, of the algorithm. But let's talk about specific cases. With regard to the Sierra da Arrábida Natural Park, you have asked the lady here to clarify a number of doubts which have been raised by Mr. President of the Humanitarian Association of Volunteer Firefighters of Palmela. He refused the Socialist Party's compressor roll.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u52	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u53	He refused to come to the Secretary of State, the President of the Humanitarian Association of Voluntary Firefighters and the director of the park. And why did we want to hear them?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u54	Truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u55	We wanted to hear these entities for a very simple reason: we had the information — public complaint — of the lack of cleaning of a state-owned land, of the lack of permission to open roads for the movement of combat cars. But nothing happened, you did not authorize and you found that nothing should be done at all, nor any questions. With regard to the Sierra da Arrábida, in a confrontation I had with you in a committee, I asked you about air resources. She says that it is not your responsibility, that she received no call from the President of the Association of Volunteer Firefighters. And we asked you, too, at that time, and I would like you to say it now, here, how many planes, how many air vehicles were at the same time in the air, of the 60 that you say we had affection for the fight against forest fires. But I tell you more: you know that one of the things that was needed was the Florestal Guards, Florestal Guards, these, who, in 2006, the Minister of Internal Administration, Antonio Costa, made it necessary to extinguish, made it necessary to end them! The speaker displayed a sheet with a news from the Polygraph. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It is a question that I would like you, as a specialist in Civil Protection, to answer me, saying whether or not the Florestal Guards are making sense, whether you can go against Mr. Prime Minister's words.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u56	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u57	Mr President, for now, I will be here, but I will come back with other questions. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u58	Let me just, at this early stage of the debate, appeal to your sense of urbanity, which is of everyone, and of elegance in the treatment between us all: we must represent the Government in this debate, in addition to the Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, the Secretary of State for Civil Protection. I shall now give the floor, for a request for clarification, to the Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Eurydice Pereira Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, the Secretary of State, first of all, I would like to present our recognition, the recognition of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group to men and women who make up the great national civil protection team. I speak of the volunteer and professional firefighters, of the professionals of ANEPC, of the ICNF (Instituto da Conservação da Nature et das Florestas), of the GNR, among many others, without forgetting, of course, the authors themselves. We also have our solidarity with the above-mentioned operatives and, of course, with the families of whom, at the service of the country, have succumbed. This note of appreciation has even more meaning for us, when an agenda of these, formally legitimate — we do not discuss it — is based on a slight and generalist expression, which is, in fact, a practice of the parliamentary bench that required it: « successive failures in the fight. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u60	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u61	when using this phrase, obviously, they call into question the entire building of civil protection and the people who operate in it, which we greet here. [[P.S.'s applause.]] By the way, it is good to remember that 90% of the rural fires were fought in the first 90 minutes. The other 10 % exceeded this time and were indeed considered very problematic. It has already been announced the great need for, inevitably, and well, to be understood so that, in the future, there may be other answers, and answers that stagnate them.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u62	They've been in the government for seven years!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u63	But we are here to ask the Government — that was the request — and therefore, the Secretary of State, be welcome. What I wanted to tell you,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u64	There's no time! You've spent the two minutes!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u65	...and that is of public recognition, is that today we have more qualified combat structures. No one can deny this reality! Exactly on this line, our first question is...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u66	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u67	... with the means available or objectively, with the evaluation of this year's device, the scope of the reinforcement in the theatre of operations, which is a good example of the 60 air means which he referred to — more than 12 years ago — plus 300 — no, sorry! — more than 700 vehicles than in five years and more 3000 operational vehicles than in five years. Finally, Mr President, I would like to leave here a note on a sentence which was said very recently by the President of the European Commission on the purchase of air equipment: « No country can fight these extreme weather and its devastating force alone. » I would like to hear about this, Madam Secretary of State. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u68	He spoke for 3 minutes! Great!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u69	Madam Member, the time you have spent will of course be cut off from the overall time available to the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u70	So is ours!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u71	But it only took 2 minutes and 15 seconds!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u72	Mr Rui Rocha now speaks for the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, Secretary of State, the exercise we have seen here by the Secretary of State, is the exercise that has become normal whenever there are problems in the country. In the face of problems, the government presents data, numbers, some that have already happened, others that, perhaps, have already happened and are already exhausted, others that will happen. Therefore, the method is always the same: to throw numbers on the problems, to confuse people and to divert attention from the problems that exist. I have a specific question for the Secretary of State, which has to do with SIRESP. The SIRESP is also a long history of omissions, of tragedies in its management, of confusion, which has to do with the failures of the system itself — 2013, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 — and now, if it wasn't tragically loaded, with the episode that we all witnessed, in which the media bodies were called to witness the good functioning of the SIRESP and it didn't work. [[Mr Pedro dos Santos Frazão's laughs.]] This is the end of the line, the credibility of a system that should be fundamental in the management of emergencies in Portugal. But it is also true that this is not only about failures, but also about the whole process of lack of transparency in procurement, public procurement, the delay of three, four years in the publication of contracts, the news that points to internal reports that testify to the existence of system failures, and therefore this is also, in itself, a management tragedy. Finally, I would like to mention the issue of the value already invested in this system and nevertheless have these failures and this management totally non-transparent. We are talking about EUR 500 million and many million, of EUR 600 million that came out of the Portuguese stock exchanges, but that do not ensure a secure network in case of an emergency.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u74	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u75	I shall conclude, Mr President. You in the government are now dedicated to finding names for committees. The last was the Learning Commission. I have an algorithm that says you are unable to understand and learn whatever it is. So I don't think you guys learn, because if you had to learn, you'd already learn in 2017. But, Madam Secretary of State, I wanted you to look at the tragedy that is the SIRESP itself as a system that does not work in Portugal. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u76	For a request for clarification, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor by the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u77	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is indeed a very serious matter and there is much to be said about it, from the very beginning, in prevention, but also in the fight. In fact, the question for a million euros is this: when does SIRESP stop being heard? The government spends its lives ensuring that it works, which is a miracle, but reality insists on denying it. They find themselves guilty — now Mr Minister has already said that they are firefighters who do not know how to move into SIRESP — but the government is responsible for ensuring its operation and cannot always be irresponsible and attributing blame to others. Therefore, the first question I ask them is what measures will be taken, effectively, to overcome this situation and to ensure that the communication system for emergency situations works in emergency situations, which is when, by definition, it has to work. Another question is what evaluation the government makes, and this is absent from this debate, from the various fires this year and from the response of the civil protection system, given that there are obvious elements and successive complaints of discoordination of means, of delay in the response, especially in the early hours. How do they assess this situation and draw conclusions to overcome these limitations, which compromise the operation? Finally, the Government has recently presented an exceptional set of measures to deal with the economic and social situation. Regardless of the assessment of these measures—we have already done ours and know it—what was thought of for the firefighters in particular? We are aware of a distressing situation in the humanitarian associations of firefighters, we know the debts of the Ministry of Health to firefighters, we know the significant increase in expenditure, taking into account the increase in prices, and therefore we need to act. We make two challenges: firstly, if the government is available for exceptional measures, such as advance of the device's funds, or if, for example, it is available to ensure access to the coloured diesel oil,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u78	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u79	... also ensuring a reduction in expenditure. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that it is not enough to weave firemen and civil protection elements, that concrete measures must be taken that are right with those wolves. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u80	You now have the floor by the Left Block, for a request for clarification, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u81	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members, contrary to what Mr Minister of Internal Administration did, who, politically correctly, at every time we had more acquitted hectares, said that any acres of great concern is a hectare because we lost biodiversity and it is a burden to the environment, the Secretary of State came to say that in fact « it was a little burned, because our algorithm said that, in view of the conditions of land, it should have burned a lot more». The Secretary of State had the verdict of, with this sentence, tightening, in particular, the right, and transforming all her statement into news for several days, but we realize that it was more than that: it was a whole bunch of government responses to the most diverse issues. When asked the head of the SIRESP because it was the same, the answer was: "it failed little, because, in the face of the firemen's irresponsibilities, not even failed again is a novelty. Do not keep on seeking. ” When Mr.Minister of Education is asked why so many teachers are missing, his answer is: " few are missing, because, in the face of what the previous opposition, after all, they should even miss much more teachers. Do not keep on seeking. ” When the Minister of Social Security is questioned about why the PS wants to cut rights of future pensioners, what she says is that « until she wants to cut a little bit, because the right would want to cut even more». Basically, this is the government of the « little », but in fact, it is the government of the « little time ago ». That's the big problem in the country. The Secretary of State will always say: 'Civil protection is the end of the country's response to the problem of fires', and it is true. In fact, the men and women of civil protection, the firefighters, all the forces involved in it, are the end of the country's response to fires, but are the end of a line of non-policy, because the government does not have a serious forest land management policy. The country has 2 % of public forest, while 10 % are of cooperative property, and everything else, almost 90 %, is private property — the liberal dream is our nightmare — and therefore the government does nothing to revise the forestry system.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u82	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u83	I conclude, Mr. President. The government has no policies to combine the forest we have with climate change, nor does it even intend to do so. Therefore, in fact, civil protection is the end of the line. But I would like to conclude with a very direct question, because even civil protection apparently did little. I ask, for example, about all the confusions that existed in the fight against fire in the Serra da Estrela, what has civil protection been doing in that context? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u84	Now, in order to complete the first group of requests for clarification, you have the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr João Moura.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u85	Mr President, Minister, Secretary of State, I believe that the mission of the Secretary of State for Civil Protection is not the easiest of the Government, because it is a mission that is dependent on the performance of other colleagues of the same Government. And when the performance of these colleagues is manifestly negative, particularly with regard to forest planning and forestry planning, when climate indicators tell you that atmospheric conditions are going to be adverse, the Secretary of State and the Minister must be in the right hands, because they have a cocktail so that things are actually going wrong. But after what happened in 2017, in Portugal, with the great disaster of fires, from then on, things have worsened, and worsened a lot. Turning to the fires of 2022 now, I would like to ask the Secretary of State some doubts about what actually went wrong. Of course, I would like you to tell me, in the Serra da Estrela, whether or not there were operational failures that caused the size of the fire that came to be caused by a television broadcast. Secondly, and in accordance with the words of the Secretary of State — who today has an excellent opportunity to clarify — I would like to know at what level the blame of the volunteer firefighters is on the use of SIRESP radios. The Secretary of State said here today that civil protection is basically based on firefighters. For, more than a word of gratitude to firemen, here is an excellent opportunity to give them good news, from then on, telling them when it will pay the extraordinary expenses of the DECIR (Special System of Combating Rural Fires), because the directions of the different firemen, at national level, are still begging the government to pay them what should have been paid for a long time. Then I would like to know whether the idea of a pilgrimage, terrible and disastrous, with which no one agrees not to be this government, of the regional firefighter sub-commands, at the level consistent with that of the NUTS III ( Nomenclature of Territorial Units for Statistical Purposes III ).
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u86	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u87	I shall conclude, Mr President, with one last question concerning firefighters, to the affection and recognition they must have of society, for their role. If we are not waiting for the alms and initiatives of the municipalities of Portugal, on the part of the Government, the incentives are the vain words that the Secretary of State here left today: « Thank you very much for the work you have done. For the year we're here again! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u88	To respond to this set of requests for clarification, you have the floor of the Secretary of State for Civil Protection.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, trying to answer the different issues that have been raised in this block, I begin with the issue of the expected burning area and my statements, because I think this is the time to clarify. It is not expectable that one can genuinely think that someone who has dedicated 22 years of his professional life to civil protection, who has walked for several hours, several days, alongside firefighters, on the ground, can even congratulate himself or rejoice with 1 ha of burning area. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is just a misunderstanding of what has been said. What was said served only one principle: to value the work of thousands of men and women who daily respond to forest fires. That's all and that's all! [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to support for firefighters, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, these are not just nice words or simple words of gratitude. What the Government has done over the past few years is a sustained policy of support for humanitarian associations of volunteer firefighters. Each year, we have sustainedly increased the values of permanent funding, as well as the transfer values to the support of the financial directive, which cover part of the expenditure incurred in the context of protection and relief operations, in particular with logistical support and with fuel. The Government's support for the associations is unequivocal and we are obviously available, and it has already expressed this willingness to, together with the different representative associations in this sector, be it voluntary firefighters, be it professional firefighters, revisit some of the issues that are urgent and that need to be updated. We have to look at the organizational model of firefighter bodies, we have to work with the authorities to think about the future model more adapted to the challenges and demands of our country, in Europe, in the world, which are associated with the response to occurrences, which we know will be increasingly complex and difficult. So this is a sector that needs to be even more reinvigorated. We must look at the formula for funding firearm bodies, which is also a priority of our government. This is what we want to discuss with industry associations. So when they tell me we're throwing numbers on the table, I can say that's not what we're doing. However, numbers are important, because they are the mirror of the actions and concrete measures that the Government has carried out in the civil protection sector, in particular in relation to firefighters, to ensure that we can continue to respond effectively to the challenges that are increasingly and more difficult. That is, numbers are a bit unequivocal, that it is important to share with you and all Portuguese. As regards SIRESP, it is important to clarify and reaffirm what has been said in the past. The SIRESP while the system did not fail in 2022. We had in 2017 a year of enormous complexity in which serious failures were effectively detected in the communications system. After 2017, we started a process of robustness, modernisation and adequacy of the SIRESP system, in particular with regard to the implementation of an additional satellite network, redundancy of the energy system, the strengthening of base stations and the increase of mobile stations. It was precisely these measures that were taken in the post-2017 which allowed in 2022 — especially in the two major moments of stress that we had, particularly in the greenhouse of the Star and also in the fires of Santarém and Leiria — the moments of greater congestion caused slight delays in the order of the seconds, but never jeopardizing the operation of the system, nor the existence of safe communications. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is not what we say, it is a report by the SIRESP itself, which analysed these two occurrences in detail—and this is important to say. As for the 10 % of fires that run away from the initial attack and those first 90 minutes, there could be no greater transparency, greater honesty or greater humility than recognizing that this is the range of events in which we have to focus our attention. That is why we quickly put in place an evaluation process — it is intended to be free, transparent and based on scientific knowledge — to help us understand what we need to correct. We don't want to blame, we want solutions. We want to understand how, based on scientific knowledge, we are able to monitor as quickly as possible the time of climate change, which is a different time from the time of system transformation. And this is absolutely urgent. On support for combat and prevention actions, let me tell you something, because it seems to me once again that this is important data. In 2021, the State placed around EUR 316 million in this system. It is EUR 316 million to ensure that the system works both at the level of prevention and combat. Of this amount, 46 % is allocated to prevention and 54 % is allocated to combat. This is proof that we are balancing this ratio and ensuring that prevention and combat are effectively carried out by given hands, because they are realities that cannot be dissociated. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In conclusion, I just wanted to take into account a report by the National Emergency and Civil Protection Authority, with regard to the fire in Palmela, which I quote once again, reaffirming that political power does not interfere with the media and that I, in particular, did not have any interference on this issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u90	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u91	Says the National Emergency and Civil Protection Authority: « The two initial attack helicopters were immediately mobilized, with a coverage radius on Palmela ; a light helicopter from the Montijo Airway Center and a light helicopter from the Mafra Airway Center. Two medium amphibious planes and two heavy Italian amphibious planes, which had come from Italy, were also mobilized and, as soon as they were given as available in Portugal, they acted in this theatre of operations. A coordination helicopter and an assessment and recognition aircraft were also joined. Do not keep on seeking. ” In short, on 13 July, eight aircraft were engaged in this occurrence. This is what we need to clarify with regard to Palmela. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u92	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u93	Mr President, Mrs Secretary of State, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs Ladies and gentlemen, we have now heard the Secretary of State speaking about climate change and the impact that they have on the difficulty in combating fires, but there is something left out of their intervention. It is something that is in the sphere of government action as regards the prevention that must be done, particularly during the winter. I know it's not your guardianship, being transversal to other ministries. This is about the forestry reorganization that our country has to have. As long as we do not have the courage to politically face the monoculture of the eucalyptus, the monoculture of the pineapple and to contribute to reward the ecosystems—particularly through the use of what is known as "fired trees"—we will continue to lose the war against the great fires in the summer, and who will pay for the operations that are on the ground and the populations, with the loss of human lives and the loss of animals and also with the destruction of goods. The Secretary of State, having been on the ground, will certainly know this reality better than I,... The speaker showed an image. ...that shows that the only peak in the greenhouse that did not burn was a cassava of chestnut trees, that stopped the fires and that did not lack the intervention of firemen and civil protection. With regard directly to your guardianship, the Secretary of State spoke recently about the recognition of firefighters and their appreciation, and we could no longer agree. However, when we bring to this House simple proposals to ensure that there is, inter alia, the recognition that this is a quick-wearing profession, that there is its valorisation through increases and subsidies due to permanent availability, or also the recognition and appreciation of forest scavengers, or the recognition and allocation, for reform purposes, of the time spent on service for volunteer firefighters, all this is rejected by the parliamentary majority who now make up this House. So — taking into account your experience on the ground, which you have already reminded us today — I ask you if you agree that these are fundamental measures. At the time you presented these initiatives, we also presented a package that aims to respond to the problem of the Star Forest, but, as far as it is under your care, such as the appreciation of these professionals, firefighters and squatters, it seems to us essential that we do not only stay for the mere financing of voluntary firefighter corporations. Moreover, requests about something as simple as exempting from tolls the transport of non-emergency patients have been repeatedly denied to voluntary fire associations. As far as animal protection is concerned, we still do not have the national plan for the inclusion of a veterinary sector in the national civil protection plan and we continue to see every year thousands of animals dying of carbonisation in the major fires. It happened in Santo Tirso and it again happened now with animals that were running, besides livestock. So I ask you whether the inclusion of this plan, or whether you will follow the proposal of the NAP in this Assembly of the Republic, which is of the most fundamental justice for this action to be transversal to the various dimensions — to save people, save animals and save goods.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u94	To request clarification, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u95	Mr President, Minister, Secretary of State, Faces and Dear Colleagues, if the best way to fight fires is before ignition, if it is to prevent, prevent that happens, the second best way is to ensure that the burned area is the minimum possible and that there is no record of loss of life, of human heritage. From that point of view, firefighters, men and women fighting fires have increasingly managed to prevent these fires from taking houses. If we look at the heat of the fires, we see that many times what is there is a true Swiss map, in which we were able to prevent the fires from taking place around each house, from each village, from victimizing humans, so this is a thanks we have to make from here to firefighters in our country. I would like to ask you a few questions, which have to do with the technical means of combating fires. On the one hand, we still do not have our own means and therefore we are renting air resources to fight fires. I would therefore like to ask you whether all aspects which can generate perverse incentives in this rental are being guarded, which is a legitimate business, but which is, in a way, self-sustainable by the fires. It is much better to have the means — I know that the acquisition of some is planned — but what I ask you is whether all the perverse incentives for the use of rented means are cautious or not. Secondly, as much as every European country buys means of combating fires, airplanes and helicopters, in fact, the costs are high and, in order to realize economies of scale—because often these means can be used cross-borderly—the ideal is to have their own means, to have European own fleets. What are the advances you have to make in this area if you have them? What do you intend to make in the context of dialogue with your fellow citizens, at European Union level and at EU level ( European Union Civil Protection Mechanism ), i.e. the European Civil Protection Programme at Union level? Third, he spoke of the National School of Firefighters. It is perfectly worth supporting this project. But since Portugal is one of the countries that is most in line with the effects of climate change, I would like to ask you whether we are also in line with the research into structural changes in land use, on the one hand, and in fire detection and control techniques, on the other. When I read that, in California or Australia, there is, for example, the use of drones, not so much for the fight against fires, but for their detection and as auxiliaries in the fight against fires—and the future will probably bring us even more forms of use of these means—I wonder if there are university projects, if there are requests to our politicians, our universities, to develop projects in this area, or not. This is because we have to look at how best to fight fires within 5 or 10 years, not forgetting, of course, that the most important would be a structural transformation in land use. However, these questions are not about the state area of civil protection, which is on another line of fire fighting, but we have brought and we will bring here many proposals at this level as well.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u96	Mr Rui Tavares, as you saw today, I did not ask you to conclude. He has wasted his time in the meantime, which means that what is wrong, truly, is even the table of times. [[Laughing.]] I now give the floor, for a request for clarification by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, to Mr José Carlos Alexandrino.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u97	Mr President, Madam Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs, the Secretary of State for Civil Protection, having this opportunity, I cannot but give a word of solidarity to the defendants of the Pedrogon fires, as well as to their families, because of the anxieties they experienced during this trial. With the absolution, justice was done. After all, Portugal has justice. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u98	The Justice of the Socrates PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u99	Madam Secretary of State, I cannot fail to congratulate you on the work you have been doing with your team, in the continuation of the work done in the previous government, in the fight against fires and in its prevention. It is true, my dear friends of the Arrival, that these fires have nothing to do with the fires of 10 years ago, because of climate change, but I would like to tell you, Mr André Ventura, that in 2013 Mr. Deputy was still militating in the PSD — and it is not to blame the PSD — the number of fires was 19 000... [[CH protests.]] Don't you want to hear? Oh, my God! I didn't interrupt you! I know they have problems of democracy within the party, the more here! Open... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u100	This is not the Municipal House of Oliveira of the Hospital!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u101	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to let me hear the speaker, who is making his request for clarification, with all legitimacy. Please continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u102	In 2013 — and I have already said that there is no trial against the PSD/CDS government, I want this to be clear — there were 19,214 fires this year against 9961. Arderam, in 2013, 145 000 ha. This year, it burned too much and too much: 109 000 ha. I wanted to talk now about national surveillance. I would like to point out that, in terms of surveillance, we want to congratulate a great organization. Between May 7th and November 6th, 77 primary network surveillance posts and,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u103	You have to complete your request for clarification, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u104	... between 29 and 15 October, 153 surveillance posts worked in the secondary network. This means that, in all, there were 230 security posts working. It is the GNR that ensures the functioning of these posts, which corresponds to a great job. I also want to mention here, as an example, the autoarchs — I was autarch and President of the Inter-municipal Council of the Coimbra Region — because we cannot consider fires an exclusive problem of the government, and I would say to you why: the Inter-municipal Community (IM) of Coimbra and Viseu Dão Lafões have made a candidacy of EUR 3.3 million, which are currently applied in 37 municipal chambers and their respective districts, with video surveillance systems, which have been fundamental in the initial detection of fires and which transmit data to combat them. This was done by the autarchs, because we consider that we are also an arm of the rule of law...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u105	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u106	Mr. President, I'm just going to ask one question.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u107	The honourable Member is spending the time of his parliamentary group and is well past the two minutes that are calibrated in the Rules of Procedure. Please shorten your speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u108	Mr. President, I'm just gonna ask one question, it's 10 seconds. Madam Secretary of State, I would like to ask you the following question: do you have data from the area, at national level, that the video surveillance system already covers, since there are other municipalities to use it, beyond our CISG? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u109	It's spent 4 minutes not to say anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u110	Mr João Dias now speaks for the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, Secretary of State, for the CFP, the best fight against fires is prevention. As far as the structural causes of fires are concerned, they are more than identified, they are more than diagnosed. In fact, there is a lack and a gap in the structural response to fires, since it has to do with the abandonment of the rural world, with the degradation and closure of various public services in health, education and social security, not forgetting the CTTs (Correios e Telecommunications de Portugal) but also with the destruction of small and medium-sized agriculture, since there is a need for a mosaic that allows there to be no such thing as the monoculture of the forest. After great fires, we always see reactions through legislative measures, advertisements, propaganda. This happened in 2003, 2005, 2013, 2017, 2018 and, this year, there are also many ads, but then what is seen is that the government does not respond to structural problems, it does not respond to what is placed in terms of forest defense and that, yes, is the best way to fight fires. So, Secretary of State, I would like to ask you two questions, and one of them has to do with the forest slag teams. When the goal is to have 500 forest slag teams—which are an important civil protection agent, we can even say that they work both in prevention and combat, particularly in the first intervention—but, currently, at least 100 teams are missing, I ask: will or will not give the total dimension to the importance of forest slags, the first pillar that is effectively lame? What do we think should be done? Strengthening and setting up teams, having more means, more public support to build up and to enable teams to function, and more rights for forest slags.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u112	Sir, your time is up.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u113	Finally, Mr President, I would like to ask a question concerning the programme Aldeia Segura. Madam Secretary of State, what have we already achieved? How many Safe Villages have been made? What is the dimension and the results? What do you do for this program? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u114	To conclude this second group of issues, I have the floor by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Nuno Fazenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs, Secretary of State for Civil Protection, this summer, the biggest fire we had in the country, and the largest of the last 4 years in Portugal, happened in the Natural Park of Serra da Estrela, which saw 25% of its affected area. The Star Forest is one of the jewels of our country, internationally recognized by UNESCO (United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization) and therefore this good must be protected, cared for and valued. That is why it is important to evaluate what has happened, but also to design the future, and it is in this context, the Secretary of State, that I leave three brief questions to you. The first has to do with the causes: can you realise, in your perspective, what were the causes of these fires and their spread, and also the impact of climate change on the present and the future, on fires? The second question has to do with the measures and the means that have been mobilized in the fight against fires: what has been done and mobilized, on the ground, in the Natural Park of Serra da Estrela? The third and final question is about the future, and in this area we already have a number of answers today. Of course, it is important to highlight the partnership work carried out on the ground between the Government and the local authorities, the survey already carried out at the level of impacts, but also the state of calamity that was decreed, giving exceptionality and urgency in the action, and also the approval, in the Council of Ministers, of a resolution where EUR 200 million is made available to support the most affected territories by fires. They are very important resources and measures at the disposal of that territory. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was also determined the realization of a revitalization plan for the Natural Park of Serra da Estrela. The revitalization plan for this Park has to be a development booster, it has to have ambition for measures, for projects and for the ability to carry out, and that is our conviction. It is in this context that I leave to you, the Secretary of State, the third and last question: what does the Secretary of State consider essential for, in the future, strengthening the protection and appreciation of the Natural Park of the Serra da Estrela? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u116	To respond to this group of requests for clarification, I now give the floor to the Secretary of State for Civil Protection, Patrícia Gaspar.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, trying to meet the issues that have been raised, I think it is essential to consider the following: we must stop looking at the issue of fires in this constant dichotomy between prevention, on the one hand, and fighting, on the other. Rural fires obey, as well as most of the occurrences in the area of civil protection, to the so-called « disaster cycle ». If there is one thing that climate change makes us realize, with more and more pragmatism, we must stop looking at this question in silos, in blocks. All this goes through, all this ends up working in a very interconnected way, and what we have been doing in particular, in the matter of fires, is actually approaching this issue of prevention to the issue of combat, to avoid the divisions and differences that may arise. What we've been trying to do is to equip all the agents and the entire device of the real needs they have to be able to respond as best they can. To try to answer the question about the means, I can say that in 2022 we actually had the most robust response device ever. Since we know that there is no time of fire and that this type of occurrence is something that can happen at any time of the year, we have gone even further: the state finally has air resources available for the fight against fires, from January to December. We know that this was a fundamental change that had to be made. In the way we respond and have developed the plans for responding to this situation, animal rescue and animal protection have been a priority. If we do not have a specific rescue plan, however, I can tell you, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, that all emergency plans of civil protection, at this moment, contemplate the animal rescue. I can tell you that we have strengthened, at the level of coordination centres, both national and district, the presence of elements related to the area of veterinary and animal protection, so that these bridges can be made and that we can effectively give the greatest possible protection to this issue. Whether we have the State's own means or if we have rented means, the model we have adopted in Portugal is closer to the model of most countries of the European Union. The overwhelming majority of countries do not have fleets based solely on their own resources. It is a fundamental balance that we have to make between our capabilities and our permanent and seasonal needs, and it is this balance that we have tried to achieve. The last meeting, convened urgently last week with all the ministers within the European Union, and where Portugal was present, gave clear evidence that the European Union recognizes the issue of rural fires as an absolute priority for Europe as a whole. That is why the announcement has already been made in order to strengthen the means, at European level, whether with airplanes or helicopters, and so I would say that we are aligned. Returning to the question of silos and the question of how all these dynamics are linked, I would say that any fire, since detected in the first few minutes, is quickly extinguished, either with the foot or with a small bottle of water. Detecting fires as soon as possible is one of our main objectives, and it is this early detection that we have achieved that also guarantees such success rate of 90 % in the initial attack. For this reason, video surveillance systems are very competitive, and today we have the increasingly robust pillar of video surveillance and forest surveillance. Let me share with you some data that I find very important. We currently have forest video surveillance systems implemented in about 11 districts and 3 other districts where these systems are being implemented, in a total of 110 video surveillance cameras and about 55% of the continental national territory already covered by these systems. But surveillance does not run out with video surveillance: it also includes the network of 230 surveillance posts, which function in permanence during the summer and which allow to contribute to this effort. It also includes technological developments, as has already been mentioned, as well as drones. We now have about 6 heavy UAV drones (unmanned aerial vehicle) which contribute to this surveillance.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u118	But are they working?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u119	This year, they have already made over 200 flights and have made a fundamental contribution to the detection and early warning of rural fires. On the issue of surveillance, I believe that these data demonstrate well the investment and the bet that have been made, not only by the State, but also by the authorities and by the inter-municipal communities themselves. I would also like to make a note, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that the Safe Village Safe Persons programme is currently implemented in more than 2100 population clusters, with more than 1000 designated security officers, having already proved that it can make a difference in the protection of people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is also a clear sign that it is a component of prevention. Prevention is important and is not limited to forest planning, and these are unequivocal data. Finally, I would like to tell you that, with regard to the plan and the fire that broke out in the greenhouse, the EUR 200 million and the urgent measures that have already been announced by the Government are a clear sign that this was indeed a tragedy that it is important to recover quickly and that it is important to support those territories and those communities. Only in the area of civil protection, between immediate measures and medium- and long-term measures, are we talking about an investment of more than EUR 4 million, which will, very briefly, be translated into concrete measures to be implemented on the ground. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the signs on this issue are indeed unequivocal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u120	What about the Kamovs?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u121	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now entering the last group of requests for clarification to the Government. To that end, I give the floor to Mrs Rita Matias of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u122	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Secretary of State, 25% of this year's fires were set on fire, so the environmentalist mask falls to the ground when they do not have the courage to admit that those who damage the forest, as a national heritage, can only be called a terrorist. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u123	Therefore, to come to talk about climate change, drought or apocalypse is an argument that begins to be painful, and it is also unfortunate to say, at the beginning of this debate, that everything is fine, because now the combat teams have diversity and parity. Therefore, we have already favored diversity more than competence. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I must say that at this point the problem is called the Socialist Party and its lack of forest planning and management. I also say that over the past 30 years, forest management has been scattered and delivered to more than six different institutions and with different areas of action. A study by the Francisco Manuel dos Santos Foundation shows that 10 % of the national territory corresponds to land without or without known owner, something between 500 000 and 1 million hectares of land. In view of this, we can only ask: where is the promised mapping of the territories? After this summer, it is also too evident that the reform of the 2017 forest, made after the fires of Pedrogão, clearly failed, because, otherwise, Portugal would not be one of the countries with the biggest burning area today. Mr. Secretary of State, I wonder if you read the report of the Independent Technical Commission of October 2017, after the Pedrogon fires, and if you read it, I wonder why you ignored it. It is in this report that experts have already described SIRESP as an obsolete system. But the experts also wrote that the knowledge that has been developed in research centres and that proposes new forest management models has been successively ignored, this knowledge carried out through public funds. The experts still said that there is no use of trained professionals and that many of them end up not being called to intervene in key moments, when they could have a positive action.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u124	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u125	All this, described in 2017, could have been described now in 2022. The question I leave you with is: how long will we continue to ignore the data and recommendations of the experts and how long will we continue to cut off their funds and means of action?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u126	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u127	Finally, saying that forest management should not be done by socialists, it must be done by experts. Therefore, please invest in training and prevention. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u128	There is now the intervention of a group of Members of the PS Parliamentary Group to request clarification. You have the floor, first of all, Mrs Susana Amador.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u129	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members, the truth is that all experts recognize that since 2017 there has been a very positive evolution in the field of fires...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u130	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u131	... in three areas: in the knowledge incorporated, in the coordination and in the action of means in the fight and in cooperation between all actors that integrate the national civil protection device. It is a unanimous recognition, and in this recognition we greet the firefighters and our municipalities. However, we continue to be concerned about the size of the burning area. The whole European Union has also been seriously hit, with more than 60 % of fires and more than 69 % of the burning area, compared to the previous year, hence the importance of mobilising common resources and the duplication of firefighting capacity announced — and very well — by the President of the European Commission in his speech by the Union. Mrs. Members, an interpellation serves to interpelte and to obtain clarifications,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u132	It's not your case!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u133	... not to instrumentalize the fires or the pain caused to those who suffer from property damage. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We would like to question the government about effective firefighting, noting that, in 2021, EUR 316 million was invested in the Integrated Rural Fire Management System, which represents a growth of 120 % compared to 2017, and that overall the Financial Directive 2022 represents a reinforcement of more than EUR 3.2 million allocated by the National Authority to operational devices, that is to say, our firefighters, who also see the growth of permanent funding, which has increased, since 2017, 15% for the humanitarian associations of our firefighters.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u134	What's the question?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u135	Mr Secretary of State, we know that 90 % of the fires are dominated up to 90 minutes and 82 % do not burn more than 1 ha. I would therefore like to ask you a few questions. The first about the importance and results obtained in our strategy, based on the fundamental pillars of the initial attack, fast and muscled and also on the transition to the extended attack whenever the fire is not dominated in the first 90 minutes of duration. in this perspective of combat, I stress the importance of the installation of regional and sub-regional commands. The second on the role of support for operational decision-making in ANEPC, with regard to the incorporation of more and better technical and scientific knowledge, because we need to study the behavior of fires. Today there was the first meeting of experts and also asked what expectations on this issue. Finally, on the formation of firefighters, what prospects do we have for this training and, above all, for more differentiated training and for professionalization in the fight against fires, in an increasingly demanding and very complex context in earth's climate history? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u136	Mr Joaquim Barreto spoke for the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u137	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Ladies and gentlemen, before we talk about the fires, let's take a little look at the situations that lead to a greater number of fires and the size of forest fires. We recall in time to bring to memory all the factors that we cannot ignore in this discussion: in recent decades, we have witnessed a strong depopulation of the interior areas, where there were cultivated agricultural land, now uncultuated and very dead; we also had more permanent managed forest spaces with more cleaning, which, of course, have more killing and are, as such, more permitted to fires; we had a greater human presence in the forest, which allowed greater surveillance and closer proximity; we had a more stable climate. Today, as I said, we are in situations that have changed considerably, as we all know. The Government and other entities linked to the sector, including authorities, firefighters and producer organisations, have sought answers to overcome these difficulties as soon as possible. these proposals highlight the following measures by the governments of the Socialist Party : the creation of the National Emergency and Civil Protection Authority in 2006 ; the creation of the EIPs (permanent intervention teams) in 2007, and other structures related to prevention and combat; the creation of forest skimming teams in 2009 ; the increase of human resources in the ICNF; equipment for forest management and prevention and combat; the investment of EUR 3.7 million in municipal forest technical offices; the program of the goats;... [[Laughing from PCP MP João Dias.]] Are you laughing? Why are you laughing? [[CH and IL rice.]] ... the forest road network, with the intervention of nearly 8000 km; the management and cleaning of fuel by all entities of the system, in about 250 000 ha; the registration of the land; the forced lease on the uncultivated land of the owners who do not cultivate; the reduction of the daily planting of eucalyptus. Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask you whether these management and prevention measures have been important to speed up and facilitate the fight. Finally, I would like to congratulate the Government, in the person of the Minister...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u138	He didn't come!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u139	He's not here!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u140	... and of all entities linked to civil protection, due to readiness and effectiveness in combating forest fires. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u141	For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, Mr António Monteirinho now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u142	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members, the biggest fire to date occurred in the Natural Park of Serra da Estrela, having set fire to about a quarter of the total area of the Park. This fire has caused various damage, at the environmental, economic and human level, to the communities that are part of this Park. If there are already detailed strategies at the economic and environmental level to address this problem and mitigate the effects of the consequences of the fire, it is the human dimension that needs to do more. The scars in the populations of the region are profound and require urgent, robust and appropriate responses. The members of the Socialist Party of the area where the fire occurred were with the populations, at the time,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u143	And he's here too!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u144	...in the most troubled moments of this tragedy. It is a tragedy of great dimensions, without memory in the region. Members held meetings with the autarchs of the affected regions and made themselves available to intervene throughout the process of revitalization throughout the Park. [[So are we!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u145	Where have the Deputies of the Arrival been? [[CH protests.]] I know, I know where they were; they were in the basement, in the claw—and well— where I was too. They were not among the populations of the burned areas. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[It's fake! It's a lie!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u146	That's what happened. It is appropriate to state, in time of harvest, that «is a lot of raisins and little grapes». Even recently, the torrential rains that occurred in a parish of Manteigas, in Sameiro, have slid lands, muds and ashes,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u147	Have you cleaned up yet? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u148	... with consequences both for public and private infrastructures, and once again the Socialist Party Members were with the population. And where has he been? He wasn't there. [[Shame! It's a lie!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u149	The PS does not accept lessons from the Arrival. [[CH protests.]] Once again, they weren't on site, they don't understand the human dimension. On the failures that the Secretary of State speaks of, Mr.St., it is appropriate to mention what Xavier Viegas said the following day in his interview with the Public. He does not believe that there has been any discoordination or lack of means in this fire. He further affirmed that the conditions were still more serious than in 2017. Allow me to speak of the EIPs, the permanent intervention teams, which only in the Guard nearly doubled from last year to this year. [[CH protests.]] This means that there is a concrete government commitment to what should be the attack and the fight against fires. I will finish by highlighting the latest report of the ICNF from 2022 : until 31 August, the year 2022 is the sixth with the highest value in number of fires and the fourth with the highest value of burning area. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u150	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u151	Mr. André Ventura is asking for the floor. Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u152	It is for an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u153	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u154	Mr President, Mr António Monteirinho, certainly because he speaks rarely in the plenary, he has not been very closely aware of the political reality of his country, and I understand, he has more to do. Therefore, Mr President, let us ask the Bureau to provide information on the presence of the Members of the House, not where the honourable Member was, not where the honourable Member hid himself, but there at the foot of the fire.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u155	Mr. Deputies, you got it. We're waiting for your document.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u156	Therefore, I ask the Bureau to hand over to Mr. Deputies, who has not been here, information on the presence of the Arrival in Leiria, Ourem, Guarda, Salvaterra de Magos and in all the lands of the country where you have not been, because you hid. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u157	Mr President, I ask you to deliver the documents and we are going to distribute them. In this way, we move on to the last request for clarification. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, Mr Francisco Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u158	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group considers that one of the indisputable aspects is the functioning of the SIRESP. However, I do not see any of the Members. Members read the two reports available in 1. the Commission on the situation of SIRESP. Communication between the means involved in combating rural fires is essential for a rapid and effective response. by SIRESP reports we know that this network worked continuously and without failures in both fires. There were some peaks whose average duration was about 3 seconds. The question I ask the Minister and the Secretary of State, first of all, is whether the operation of the SIRESP network, with regard to the waiting times in the peaks of the number of communications, called into question the response of the operational means, or has led to some worsening of the fires in question. Secondly, what measures should be taken to prevent the response capacity of the SIRESP system from being exceeded? This is due to the re-evaluation of extreme-use communication plans. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u159	To respond to this group of requests for clarification, I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Civil Protection, Patrícia Gaspar. You have the floor, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u160	Mr President, I thank the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the questions you raised. I begin by taking up an issue that seems fundamental to me, which has to do with the gender diversity that we have tried to impose on the permanent intervention teams. Madam Member, playing gender or gender diversity with competence seems to me to be a dangerous exercise. What we want is to ensure, indeed, that this is a concerted policy in different areas and that we also encourage and support gender diversity in this type of team, which seems to us to be of the most fundamental justice and importance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would like to point out, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the absolutely fundamental role that the security forces have played, not only in the fight but also in the investigation of the causes of fire, which has already been raised here several times, in particular with regard to the Republican National Guard and also the Judicial Police. This is an absolutely difficult, very complex work, as you can imagine, but it has given much fruit. We know — because much of the fires are effectively investigated — that the vast majority of occurrences, despite the increased intentionality of the causes, which occurred this year, even when they are for negligence, often have human hands. And there is a fundamental work to be done, which, in our view, in respect of the rules of the democratic rule of law and what seems to us to be the most important justice, does not go through the question of legal frameworks. The solution actually goes by creating a framework of pedagogy and sensitization, in which we have increasingly been betting. It was this sensitization framework that allowed us to move, in about 10 years, from a daily reality, which I personally knew of many summer days in which we had 400, 500 occurrences—and we have come to have 600 occurrences per day—to, at present, more complex days, terms on average, 100, 150. This is due to the efforts to raise awareness and to the work of proximity that have been done by the various forces, not only security forces, but also firefighters themselves, and is due to the pedagogy that has been done at school curricula level. This is a fundamental action, which has made the difference in the theatres of operations, because, obviously, the less occurrences we have, the greater the effectiveness, the greater the ability to act by the forces that respond to the fires and better we will be able to maintain our strategy, which has been sustained for years in the initial attack and in the extended, robust attack. If the government were to insist, as has been said, on ignoring the experts, we would not be taking the path we have been heading for several years. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u161	We have, since 2018, installed in the National Emergency and Civil Protection Authority, the Center for Support for Operational Decision, which integrates scientists and technicians from the academy and different laboratories, which make a fundamental contribution to the development of our monitoring capacity, of analysis, but above all, of anticipation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is this anticipation capacity that has enabled us to develop operational planning, especially at the level of, for example, pre-positioning of means, which has made a substantial difference. With regard to the new territorial model of civil protection, yes, we are absolutely in line with the policy defined in 2019. We are implementing the Organic Law of the National Emergency and Civil Protection Authority and on January 1 we will move from 18 district commands to 23 sub-regional commands.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u162	It's a mistake!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u163	More work for the PS boys!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u164	This is a careful, mature, sensitive planning process that is being done in close coordination between the National Emergency and Civil Protection Authority and the Government, and in dialogue with all partners. This is the model that will allow us to be closer to the populations, closer to the different partners and ensure a more effective response and action. With regard to training, yes, we want and we will revitalize and rethink the model of training for firefighters as well as other civil protection agents. That is why we constituted a working group,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u165	More work for the PS boys!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u166	... led by a recognized academic in this area, who gave his report to the Ministry of Internal Administration, and which will now be analyzed, to see which best solutions to ensure that this school is affirmed and assumed as the reference entity in training, either in the area of civil protection, or in the fire department area. With regard to SIRESP, I mean you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is and has been an important compromise over the past few years. I have noted here the important changes, innovations and bets that have been made in this system. What do we want for the future of this system? We want you to keep answering, as you've been doing here every day. The SIRESP serves every day different civil protection agents, from north to south of the country, without any embarrassment. We want a system that continues to respond not only in these circumstances but also in exceptional situations, and that is why we will continue to bet on strengthening, modernizing and adapting this system to digital transition.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u167	You must conclude, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u168	That is why we will transfer the management of this network to the State in order to safeguard the public interest and sovereignty. Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u169	Mr. Secretary of State, we thank you for your answers. We will enter the intervention period. I remember the ladies again. Members who are concerned about the timing of the electronic panel and if there is any request for clarification regarding any intervention, it will have to be announced to the Bureau until the end of its intervention. We then move on to the interventions. For the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Pinto Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u170	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: This debate could not be more timely on the day when the Committee of Experts is meeting for the first time to carry out the technical assessment of the major fires this year. The creation of this panel of experts is the political recognition that the mechanisms that exist in the prevention and coordination of fire response are insufficient and ineffective.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u171	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u172	In fact, after the tragic events of 2017, little has been done so that the country is not regularly confronted with the drama of forest fires and that many families are not affected by this sad reality, sometimes defenseless. The Court of Auditors itself, in the audit conducted at the firefighting device in 2021, concluded that the measures announced five years ago by the Government are to be implemented and need to be improved. Thus a accumulated capital of knowledge on this matter was wasted, resulting from the extensive work done by committees, study offices and groups of experts formed at that time, with particular emphasis on the Independent Technical Commission. The bare reality of the facts is that the country is still on fire. [[PSD applause.]] This year, according to ICNF data, we recorded 106 639 hectares of burned area until the end of August. Compared to the history of the previous 10 years, the value corresponds to less than 15% of rural fires, but more than 36% of the area consumed by fires. in a position that is already classic in socialist governments, we are also in this indicator where no one in Europe wants to be: Portugal is the Member State of the European Union which leads, in a loose manner, the percentage of burned area in its territory. At the same time, the government applauds because it burned less than indicated by the PS algorithms. [[PSD applause.]] in this difficult framework there remain successive failures in the prevention and coordination of the response, especially to large fires, failures that are pointed out by several leaders, including the Firearms League and the Association of Safety and Civil Protection Techniques. So the Portuguese ask: what has been done to improve this reality in recent years? What measures have been attempted or implemented to improve operational coordination between firefighters and civil protection in larger fires and complexity? What concrete initiatives have been undertaken to expedite long-standing operational cooperation with the Armed Forces and the GNR itself? At this level, we know that regular joint exercises are not carried out between military forces and firefighters, allowing us to doubt whether this coordination would be effective. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is up to the Government to develop prevention mechanisms, either through the structural way of forest reform or through the operational way through the allocation of the necessary means: air, combat and coordination. We also have a government in this area that prefers propaganda and immediacy to the long-term coherence and effectiveness of measures. It was thus, for example, that the Executive gave up the acquisition of Canadair planes,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u173	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u174	... after taking possession in 2015, wasting 50 million euros of Community funding thoroughly lost. Six years later, it came to the conclusion that these, after all, were the best option. [[PSD applause.]] In the same line, the Kamov helicopters, acquired in 2006 by the then Minister of Internal Administration António Costa, for years without proper maintenance, were voted out, three stopped, one destroyed and two injured in the hangar of Ponte de Sor. Now, due to the international restrictions imposed on Russia, the rehabilitation of the six aircraft is conditioned and postponed sine die. We must not forget, in this context, the recent acquisition of six Black Hawk helicopters worth EUR 43 million, but whose operational capabilities are already challenged by the experts, considering this purchase of the government's casting error. Not only is casting weak, as the film seems to be not current, since we talk about equipment with 35 years of use. Therefore, it is not enough to form committees and working groups if the lessons learned are few. The diagnosis is more than done and the solutions more than studied; what is lacking is to act politically with knowledge, qualification and courage, for a real consolidation of the civil protection system, an agile system in prevention and effective in combat, which gives security assurances to Portuguese and their heritage. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u175	The Bureau shall not record any request for clarification. We therefore move on to the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group. Mr Rui Rocha has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u176	Mr. President, Mrs. State Secretary, Mrs. Members: The government has in fact systematically failed in the matter of fighting fires. Unfortunately, the failure of the government is not the exception, it is the rule that extends to many other areas. This is a government that fails in education. Now that we're talking, there are thousands of Portuguese students who are without a teacher for some of the disciplines they have in their curriculum. The government fails in health. Now that we're talking, the pediatric surgery emergencies at Braga Hospital were resumed, two and a half months after they were suspended on July 1st, during the night. Therefore, the government has continued to systematically fail during this period and failure, as we know, in justice. The Government is the principal responsible for a long-lasting justice system, which does not respond and which is a simulation of what should be. The government fails in all areas. The Government is indeed the "SIRESP Government": it is dear to the Portuguese, it is never present when necessary and obsolete. [[Applause from the IL.]] In the light of the firefighting perspective, there is a permanent name, either in the initial award of the SIRESP, either in the continuity of this emergency system, either in the design of the global emergency and civil protection system itself. That name is António Costa. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u177	It is true that the government also fails in the fight against fires, but this discussion on fires, on the forest, cannot and should not only be restricted to the issue of combat, because if we are only recording the consequences of the lack of effective combat we lose part of the situation and part of the film. We also need to talk about the issue of forest management. in this respect, the government fails again. Without talking about water, without talking about irrigation, without talking about interior settlement, without talking about forest management, all this will happen again, or because the fight is late and poorly coordinated, or because the conditions on the ground are conducive to continuing the misfortunes we have witnessed. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u178	This is a global government failure scenario. I would say that this government has adopted what is called'silent resignation': nothing does, the problems are piled up and it only makes announcements of measures that are never being implemented. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u179	Mr Rui Rocha, you have a request for clarification by Mr Bruno Nunes of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, to whom I give the floor immediately. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u180	Mr. President, I begin with a previous note concerning the members of the Socialist Party of Guarda, Castelo Branco, Bragança and Leiria. We were there. You are going to have difficulty on Monday, in contact with the people, saying that here they hit palms, because nothing happened at all. We were there. The gentlemen should be ashamed. [[Congrats from the CH.]] With regard to the intervention of the Liberal Initiative and the question of air resources, we wanted to know what the position of the Liberal Initiative was in relation to a greater strengthening of financial resources for, for example, the Air Force. We'd like to see if VV. Ex.a. follow our positions to figure out where the C-130s of the Air Force are going and how many are operational. The news coming from the public says, in fact, that in the 1980s and 1990s they were used and that, however, they are completely entangled by a governmental and political decision. We would like to see if you think that there must be this investment in the Air Force, to understand how much it costs, in reality, today, the fight against fires and how much it could cost the fight made by the Air Force, if the Air Force was respected in this country. Trying to perceive the liberal vision of VV. For example, we liked to see whether or not the municipalities also found themselves to have failed in the cleaning of land round the way after March 15, when they should have been cleaned in a coercive manner and they were not. Most of these municipalities are from the Socialist Party. You didn't fail to clean up the land and you shouldn't have? Oh, my God! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Do you agree with us that the Government has failed or has not failed to clean up the land? Do you think that there is, or not, a national control problem and a patent problem between volunteer firefighters, civil protection, GNR and squatters? Everybody's in charge, but whoever should send doesn't have a command voice in this. [[Protests by PS MP João Miguel Nicolau.]] In addition, the Liberal Initiative loves audits and monitoring very much. I would like to know what they want to do and if they accompany us in an audit that must be made to this SIRESP contract, which is a shame. There have been complaints recently by former SIRESP President Sandra Perdigão Neves, who gave an interview to claim that there has been a direct adjustment in this competition, that the rules have not been complied with and that what we have currently exceeded for more than 10 years. In fact, we have seen that it has been out for more than 10 years and that it does not work when it is seven floors below and we heard: « Carlos, Carlos, counts up to 10 », « Anda, Carlos, Carlos, counts up to 10. » It was a shame in front of the whole country, who saw this. [[Congrats from the CH.]] More valuable, my gentlemen, that they offered two glasses of yogurt with two sticks and a nylon wire, than firefighters sure to listen better to each other than with SIRESP, the way it is working. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u181	You have the floor to answer Mr Rui Rocha, from the IL.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u182	Mr President, Mr Bruno Nunes, I am going to try to answer — in fact, many questions have been asked, which I am grateful for — starting with the question of SIRESP. I believe that we have been clear in our speeches today about the responsibility we have placed on the government and, in particular, on António Costa, throughout the historical process of SIRESP. I would like to say that the Liberal Initiative is fully concerned with the transparency of all the processes involving SIRESP and has recently addressed to the Minister of Internal Administration a number of questions that have to do with the latest public competitions, for which we have the greatest doubts, namely how they were built, seeming more directed to certain objectives than a real, effective, open and transparent public competition. So we both have this concern that we have actually asked our side of the question that we consider relevant. Also a short time ago, when the public heard that there would be an internal report from the SIRESP that would point to a set of failures, we immediately entered with a request to clarify the content of that report and those that could be the consequences of that report. Another point which Mr Bruno Nunes referred to was the responsibility of the autarchs in the management of the forest. Well, I believe that this responsibility, throughout the country, is obvious, but, although it is obviously serious, responsibility goes there. We had a fire in Pinhal de Leiria in 2017 and, at the time, a socialist government has spoken of the greater reform of the forest since D. Dinis. So, history is extraordinary! Pinhal was there 700, 800 years, and he was resisting. With a socialist government, that's what it was. It was necessary to come with the greatest reform of the forest system since D. Dinis and yet we are, in 2022, with the catastrophe we see in the greenhouse of the Star. So I don't know what will be necessary now. The largest forest reform since Rameses II? Oh, my God! Is that what is necessary? [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u183	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies. Your intervention time is already running out.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u184	Also seeking to respond to Mr Bruno Nunes, with regard to the Air Force, this must be seen from the perspective of the whole system.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u185	You really have to conclude. It's just that your time has run out.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u186	We are obviously in favour of the transparency of the system, the existence of adequate means and the proper management of the means. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u187	We continue with the interventions. For the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u188	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Ladies and gentlemen: There is a myth that the arrival has intended to ride and that it was destroyed by reality. It's normal. The myth is that fires come from a general criminal activity...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u189	25%!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u190	...and, therefore, increased feathers solved the problem. Now we realize that this happens in 25 percent of the fires...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u191	Is that too little? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u192	...and therefore, in fact, the incautious, often thoughtless and not properly prepared activity have much more impact on the fires than these criminals. However, there are actions which the government could and should carry out and which often fail. For example, training in the agricultural sector, in order to prevent burning from being a major problem in the fires, should already be on the ground in a form and with a force that we do not see today. Climate change should force a new arrangement of the forest and a thought of the forest with other species, another organization, up to another relationship with the property, and the government should act to ensure that the populations do not remain permanently dependent on the eucalyptus. Some will say: "But the ordered eucalyptus plantation is not as bad for the forest as that of disordered eucalyptus. » In addition, the fact that the disordered eucalyptus is a considerable part of the forest in our country for the finding to be obvious. There are municipalities, such as, for example, the municipality of Mação, in which the eucalyptus plantation was ordered and burned, burned and will continue to burn in the future, because the eucalyptus is a species of these. From this point of view, a State that does not prepare the forest to respond to climate change is a State that is failing. There is nothing about it; the right, about it, says very little and it is strange that the Socialist Party also says very little about it, but it is fundamental. We look at civil protection as the last protection. It is not like the first protection, it is the last protection, even in the prevention part is the last protection, because the forest should be thought of decades, it should be thought of structurally and strategicly for the country and civil protection enters as the last actor in this defense of populations. Unfortunately, that is not the reality. Those who discuss fires, often, what they do is only and only discuss the means to fight fires, as they are arranged on the ground, as they are organized, but always fail in the fundamental, because the fundamental are climate change, the forest we have, the organization of the territory. From that point of view — I insist on this point — the Government has much to do. Mr. Secretary of State, I would not ask you this question, but in some way, in his previous interventions, he addressed a topic that is not necessarily yours, not civil protection, but that is directly related to the territory. This is the answer now to the lands that have burned, in particular the answer to the question of the Star Forest, the largest dimension of the burned area, but not the only case. We have seen in the past that, after the fires, there is a national constancy and the government, to placate this constancy, always says that it will give support to the people to protect the areas that have been burned and so that in the future the same evil is not repeated. We have seen in many places where there were fires, and this year too, that, after all, from 2017 until now, the only thing that has grown was either the kill or the eucalyptus and, therefore, there were areas that have burned again. What we cannot have is permanently these mistakes. So, as far as the Star Forest is concerned and as far as the rest of the forest is concerned, what we want to know about the government is what measures it will take this time not to repeat the same sort of errors, the same proliferation of the eucalyptus and the same future problem we have in front of us. The second aspect—about this, curiously, the Arrival does not speak—is that of support for the people.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u193	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u194	It is that in 2017 we had support for populations.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u195	To the people! What about the owners? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u196	We know that they have sinned a lot by default and we also know that they have not arrived as they should have come to the ground. Some of these supports even walked through the courts, by the way they were distributed. However, what we are not seeing now is a muscular support for the populations, to ensure that, in relation to the way they look at the forest, they see it carefully and that forest areas are not again delivered to the eucalyptus, because that is what gives some kind of income and everything else brings only cost to the populations. From that point of view, once again, the government is not acting as it should. We therefore see a set of repeated errors, a set of problems that could be avoided and not avoided, and a government that has been ruling since 2015 and the only thing we have seen is the permanent repetition of the same mistakes in the forest, in the organization of the forest and in relation to the interior of the country and the forest zone. The Secretary of State may say, 'but I almost did not speak in the part of combat'. I think, as I told you,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u197	Mr. Deputy has to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u198	I end with one sentence: this is the last of the problems and, after all, with so much money that we have already made available for combat, it should in fact be far from people's concerns. It is incomprehensible how the SIRESP is not working as it should, how air resources often do not reach how they should arrive, and above all — and this, I believe, is the most important — as there has been, and we have seen this, for example, lack of coordination in the fire of the Star Forest, when, since 2017, with the developments that existed in coordination, these lack of coordination and communication should not exist. I believe that this is the fundamental point, which is incomprehensible, that deserves to be corrected, that must be corrected, but, as I said, this is one of the last aspects we are concerned about in this context. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u199	You have a request for clarification from Mr André Ventura, but you do not have time. Question: Does it give time to the Left Block?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u200	How, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u201	Is it enough time for the Left Block to answer, or not?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u202	We had to be dead for that to happen!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u203	I didn't hear you, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u204	No way!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u205	There's no time, then. Then, in this case, you may make a request for clarification, called a request for rhetorical clarification, which will not have an answer, or then we will convert your request for clarification into a quick, flash-type intervention. What are we in, Mr? Do we stay in the rhetorical clarification request or in the flash intervention?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u206	We are on the request for clarification, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u207	So, we're on the request for rhetorical clarification. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u208	Thank you, Mr. President. The President-in-Office of the Council of the European Communities said that the Commission should be able to make a number of amendments to the proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the processing of personal data. It is 25 %, as you yourself mentioned. It's like the block bench, which went down to 25% of what it was. [[Cheers and laughs from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u209	You can't count! That's a fake news.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u210	It's even less than 25%! So it's almost like fires: they've been set on fire and now they don't know whose fault it is. [[Cheers and laughs from the CH.]] It's just that it's a little strange to hear you say that and say that you arrive says nothing about these criminals, about climate change. I understand that the Block now can't go to all the committees, because it has fewer Members, and that's absolutely normal—in fact, I was alone and I know what that is. But if you were to follow a little, what you have not done, the Committees, such as the Environment and others, would see that you have been discussing this and other matters through the Committees. Mr. Rita Matias and Mr. Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro, and I am sorry that I did not follow this situation. Finally, the honourable Member should have commended the Secretary of State, who has even come to talk about fires and referred to the increase in diversity, what will now be the new civil protection and firefighters' operations. That's actually what the Portuguese want to hear. I think who was at home and heard, thought: "Wait there, will increase the diversity of people who fight? Oh, my God! Are we gonna have transsexual firefighters, for example? Do not keep on seeking. ” Who is at home says: "This is what we needed! Transsexual firefighters. Everyone at home has to be saying: "My God, I've been waiting for this for years! Mr. Secretary of State, thank you, there will certainly not be more fires, because now we will have transsexuals and more the other categories all that exist. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u211	Clown!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u212	Let's be ashamed! We're gonna be ashamed! People lost their homes, lost their property, lost their animals, lost their lives, and the government comes here saying that what you have to give them is more diversity in firefighters? More diversity... [[PS and BE protests.]] Mr. Secretary of State, worry about paying the risk allowance to firefighters, worry about the tolls firefighters have to pay. That's what you should worry about. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u213	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u214	I will finish, Mr. President. Worry about the career that firemen do not have, worry about the money they receive, worry about the sandwiches with butter they receive from the government! Now, firefighters with diversity? Oh, my God! Is that what you have to tell people? Is that what you have to tell the Portuguese? Shame on us! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u215	The honourable Member has indeed not made any request for clarification to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares. At least I didn't realize I did. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u216	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u217	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u218	Mr President, precisely for that reason, because Mr President gave the floor to the parliamentary group of the Arrival for a circus act — indeed, he has that merit —...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u219	Ato circense is at your house and at your bench!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u220	...but for clowns Parliament dispensed these kinds of initiatives. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u221	Take the stuff and get out of here!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u222	He only sends his mouth when there's no time to answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u223	Mrs. Susana Amador is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u224	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u225	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u226	Mr President, we believe that the language used is not adequate and again discriminates against a group of the population, in this case the transgeners, who, I believe, should not be reason for chacota, but rather respect by all Portuguese, regardless of their sexual orientation or self-determination. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]] It is a devaluation of Parliament, each time they use that kind of language and it is discrimination. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u227	Mr. André Ventura asked for the floor for an appeal to the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u228	Yes, for the same purpose, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u229	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you not to abuse this regiment figure, but in any case, I will give the floor to Mr Ventura, asking him to be partisan in his speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u230	I will be very supportive, Mr President. I would just like to say that the arrival rejects having used any offensive language; we just wanted to make clear what ridiculous this announcement was on a day when we are discussing fires and faults in the fight against fires.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u231	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u232	We also note that the Socialist Party is concerned about a parliamentary group that says and denounces the ridicule that this is, but it is not important that they call others clowns. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Your behavior remains and your attitude remains. on our part, they will not pass... to others, no longer worth answering, are so few... [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u233	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's continue our work. To this end, I give the floor to the Member of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Alma Rivera, who will hear with the serenity she deserves.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u234	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : In fact, this is a serious debate, which deserves serious consideration, even because it is a problem with very serious consequences and dimensions for our country. What we have witnessed—and it is not an exclusive problem today—is, in general, propaganda and infertile mouthbeat. It propagates on the part of the Government that, of course, smoothes the issues, that when it comes to fires it announces worlds and funds, but, essentially, the government announces but the forest burns. The government reports, announces and praises, it appears next to the firefighters, but when they need the most, in fact, it is not; when there is a need for support in the substantive political issue, in the financing, in the necessary and urgent investments, it is up to date and the government is not;...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u235	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u236	... when there is a need for enhanced civil protection, the Government disorganizes it; when there is a need for means, particularly air, sufficient and adequate, the Government is not; when there is a need for support in the field, in the food and rest of the teams, the Government does not guarantee and deresponsibility; when firefighters need to have their own national command, the Government is not there; when it is necessary to be a team of divers, the Government is once again absent.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u237	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u238	But it is also the propaganda of those who ride in fires and all the misfortunes, in general, in suffering and victims, but then, in fact, there is no alternative to present, there is no concrete proposal that can be seen — in fact, they devote seconds to the concrete proposal in a whole debate. the CFP, in fact, does not lack and will not lack the initiatives, the proposals, the concrete measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u239	You like that? You like that?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u240	Like, for example, the establishment of a national command for these civil protection agents, which are the only ones that do not have it; such as the real and significant strengthening of the financing of firearm associations; such as, for example, access to green gas oil, which is cheaper; such as the revision of protocols with INEM ( National Institute of Medical Emergency ),...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u241	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u242	... with greater justice for firefighters; such as works in the barracks and maintenance of equipment that are used in missions every day in our defense, to protect us as a country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u243	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u244	These and other proposals, to disband firefighters' associations, structural measures, land use measures, all have a common element: the vote against many of the parties who today shout outrage. [[Yours! Yours!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u245	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the government, the solutions exist and will always exist; the question is whether there will be any will to implement them,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u246	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u247	... whether each party will support these measures in its own time or whether next year we will be having the same discussion and regret the dramatic consequences of the fires. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u248	You have no request for clarification. I therefore give the floor to Mr Pedro Frazão of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u249	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we have a very important debate and, for me, as a veterinary doctor, I have the ethical and moral duty to defend the rural world, the animals and the farmers who hold them. This is a very important issue for our party, unlike other parties that do not talk about it at all,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u250	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u251	... of the PS, which puts in front of the league of the last – indeed, its leader of the bench is neither here nor worthy to speak – and of the Minister of Internal Administration, who is not worthy to appear here.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u252	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u253	I apologize to the most sensitive people for showing this picture of a dead, calcined animal. This photograph is 2017. The speaker showed a picture. Mrs. Secretary of State, since 2017, do you know how many animals have died in fires, how many have died calcined and how many have been left without pasture? You don't know! But farmers know what they have suffered. And you know, Secretary of State, who helped you? Those who helped them were other farmers from other areas of the country and were also the Order of Veterinary Physicians, through volunteering programs. They're calcined animals, dead, inside their own pavilions. And from here, what happened, Secretary of State? What did you learn? What have you learned about animals? Do you have any rescue plans? They don't! Now how many animals were left without pasture and had to be saved? The speaker showed a picture. This photograph is no longer 2017, it is this year. Now, people know that they are alone, they have to be saving their own animals, because if they are not saving their own animals, they will end up calcined. In the greenhouse of the Star, the Secretary of State, 100 shepherds were in need of immediate help to feed their animals. It was about 2500 animals that were left without food. Who helped them? Do you know who helped you, Secretary of State? The speaker showed a picture. Again, other farmers from Santarém, Beja, Évora, who sent 10 tonnes of food to Gouveia, in the greenhouse of the Star, to be able to supply the nutritional needs of these animals. [[Congrats from the CH.]] You know, Madam Secretary of State, the farmers do not have their mothers cash safes, as had the prime minister who extinguished the Florestal Guards. The Minister of Agriculture, who should be here today, because it is the authority called to decree the states of emergency, and who has repeatedly announced the same 500 000 euros, which she says are half a million euros to see if it sounds better, then, when the door that brings the help to the animals, forgets about the pigs, forgets the donkeys and gives the mesera amount of 11 € per sheep. They're miserable amounts! You know why, Secretary of State? Because this Minister of Agriculture the only thing that realizes about agriculture was having made a contract of award to buy 30 olive trees for 60 000 € to a family member of the Secretary of State of the Forests at the time. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u254	As there are no requests for clarification, I give the floor to Mr Ricardo Pinheiro, who has one minute and 13 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u255	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Minister and Mrs Secretary of State, whom I welcome: In fact, the absence of the Minister of Internal Administration here today can well be accepted by the way in which the current Minister of Internal Administration was present during the fight against fires this summer. In fact, one of the major improvements in the way fire fighting has been done was the permanent presence of the Minister of Internal Administration and his team. [[P.S.'s applause.]] More 13 000 operational, more 13 000 teams, more 2800 cars, an increase of 177 Permanent Intervention Teams, compared to 2021, 40 forest-stopping firefighters at the ICNF. It is important to say that the firefighting device was not only efficient as it responded. Things are getting better. In fact, there are things that need to be improved, particularly because of extreme situations, that we are already feeling the impact of climate change. More air resources, more land resources and more human resources are needed, as the impacts of climate change on planning and prevention need to be addressed quickly. The situation is serious, it cannot be devalued, it will worsen in the coming years and we have an obligation to prepare the country to respond. But the Government has responded effectively, and here too, in this appeal to the Government, it is important to have an opportunity to speak on this matter. The heat wave, which enters the Iberian Peninsula in the south of Portugal and Spain, has to be battled with a reforestation plan of our country, as well as Spain. This is the view of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group on this matter. I therefore hope that we will be able to do the work that is being planned in the area of prevention—and, as in everything, to prevent delay—and that within 10 years we will be fully prepared, so that your algorithm, Mrs Minister, can be an effective algorithm, which anticipates many of the things that can happen in the field of fires in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u256	Mr Ricardo Pinheiro, Mr Ex. has a request for clarification by Mr André Ventura, so I have to ask the honourable Member whether it is time for the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group to be able to respond to the request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u257	Let us not give up time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u258	So in that case, Mr Ventura, I give you the floor to make the request for clarification, knowing that you will not have an answer to it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u259	We're used to it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u260	Mr President, the arrival will allocate what is left of its time to the Secretary of State, if requested, in order to finally be able to answer since he is here, he has not answered the three questions we have asked him. Therefore, Madam Secretary of State, please prepare us to tell us where the Minister of Internal Administration is — we would like to know that — to clarify the algorithm and to tell us whether the statements he made on that day I referred to in the rostrum are kept, and which I will then remind him.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u261	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u262	Mr. Ricardo Pinheiro, you say we will be ready in 10 years. in 10 years? Oh, my God! ... The Socialist Government took office in November 2015. In November 2015, with the support of the PCP, the Left Block and later the NAP, the Socialist Government had four years to do prevention. In 2017, we live the greatest tragedy of our day and you are here in 2022, saying that you want another 10 years? Oh, my God! Are you kidding us? Oh, my God! 10 more years for what? To burn the rest of the country and there's nothing left to burn? Oh, my God! The idea remains that the PS will only win the battle against fires on the day that there is no more to burn. [[Congrats from the CH.]] on that day, António Costa will appear to say: "We saved the Fireland. Now, my friends, there's nothing to burn, because it's all burned. Do not keep on seeking. ” The honourable Member said that he wanted to thank Mr Minister who was an author, and already Mr Joaquim Barreto had thanked Mr. Minister of Internal Administration and, therefore, I think they will be sad, because he is not here. Take a good look! He's not here! So where is he? Oh, my God! I think this is a question that today the opposition has the right to ask and perhaps the honourable Member can answer. But if so, let us give him time. If you say that Mr. Minister is on such a site, the country is aware that Mr. Minister has not come because he is having a very big problem and you think that was more important than responding to the Portuguese on fires. I think this made sense.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u263	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u264	What you cannot say is that we are on our way. Repair: « Association demente secretary of state : 'SIRESP fails every day'. Do not keep on seeking. ” The speaker displayed a sheet with a newspaper news. Mr President, you can create the narrative you want, until you can say that the world is flat and that tomorrow the sun will shine on all of us, except that not, Mr, Mr, it fails every day.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u265	No one says the world is flat!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u266	Well, no, but it says that SIRESP works, which is actually the same thing. It says here in this article: « Association demente secretary of state : ‘SIRESP fails every day’. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PS protests.]] Mr President, Mr Nunes has already reminded you and I think I will read, because this is for the memory of the socialist shame: « Carlos, are you listening? Carlos... are you listening, Carlos? Carlos... ” No Carlos. Carlos didn't listen, because SIRESP was working... [[CH's laughs.]] Forward, that same gentleman...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u267	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u268	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, later on, this same gentleman said to the journalists: "No, no, this works. It works, but there is often a need to position terminals and there may have been some mistake here. There is also a lot of cement here in the buildings around. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr President, if this were not to be enjoyed with those who work, if this were not to be enjoyed with the Portuguese, if this were not to be enjoyed with you and with the government, which should fight the fires, it would be a tragedy without a name; as it is not, it is only the socialist tragedy that we will have to face in the next four years. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u269	For an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Emília Cerqueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u270	Mr President, first of all I welcome Mrs Minister and Mrs Secretary of State. At the end of this debate, and after many speeches and positions, there is a note that we cannot fail to make, as a responsible party that we are and that looks at the tragedy of fires in a responsible way. For some, it's paradise, for others, it's all wrong, but as always, virtue is somewhere in the middle term. In 2017, António Costa said : « In the fight against and in the prevention of fires, from now on, nothing will be like before. He was joined by Minister Capoulas Santos, then saying: «We are going to do the greatest forest reform since the times of D. Dinis. Do not keep on seeking. ” After five years, and because it is impossible for us to start this debate without going back five years—with these five years, we turn back to another issue, which is that, from five to five years, if nothing is done, the forest burns — here we are again burning. And, over the past five years, what do we have, because this is what it matters today to answer in order to find solutions? We have a burning area of more than 109 000 ha. The PS was all satisfied and found that it was little... it is a matter of perspective, because, for us, it is incomprehensible, with all the means, observatories, instruments, working groups and conditions, as never before, to invest in combat, both in prevention. There are those who are content with it, but the PSD is not happy, because the little one is not our way of seeing politics, neither the public interest nor the territory. [[PSD applause.]] We are talking about 109 000 hectares of rural areas: 40 % of forests; 10 % of agriculture; and 50 % of forest settlements. Of course, and it is important to mention it - it has failed in the proposed objectives in relation to the burning area, because since 2005 it was said that it would be less and less and, in 2017, it was indeed imperative that it be less and less. The truth is that Portugal is in the sad statistic between groups and those announced, in view of its total territory, to be the most burning country in the European Union. This is our reality and not what they are trying to sell us today during this debate. Therefore, the State has again failed in the burning area and at the level of the level of destruction. It's just, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk here about 90 % of fires that are at the beginning, we are talking about those very small fires that hardly ever become big fires. Therefore, the missing preparation is for large fires, 10 % fires. What do we have? A country where recessions are the largest in the European Union, much higher than in all other European countries. What's going on? It is important that this work be done on the ground, because we are full of working groups, experts and experts. That is what we were used to year after year, until the inexorable reality is to burn more and more territory. We have Ourem, we have the Arrábida and we still have the case of the Star Serra, which is the paradigmatic this year. So it has failed again, and it has also failed to protect the crops of agriculture, so fundamental for the food cassava at the moment we live, of war, of great crisis and of great difficulty in supply chains. On the other hand, the fact that we have 40 % of a burning area in the woods shows clearly the failure of government policies and what is the abandonment of the territory, because it has not been cultivated again, it has not been treated again, it has not been planted again. This is the stamp, the watermark of this government, which is also the previous one. So we have another failure in forest reform, because the government has promised what he knew he would not accomplish, and that is what we see today. But in view of this scenario, we can say that, contrary to what we were told, everything is worse. The areas are worse, because there are no attractive and innovative public policies that allow them to be reborn and regenerated in productive and environmental terms. It's worse than the national forest. In five years, all economic indicators of forestry are decreasing, reflecting the failure of public policy in encouraging production and reducing context costs for forest production segments. The involvement of local power in the construction of solutions with the owners and in the articulation and cooperation with the means of civil protection is worse. And no, it is not Mr Minister in the field who is disturbing the actions, which solves the problem, which, in fact, continues to get worse. There are no policy instruments that assume a paradigm shift and that potentiate the forest and rural spaces as means of income. As long as the agents of the territory are not seen as fundamental agents, in economic terms, the many plans and strategies will always fail their objective. But what's missing? There is a lack of an inclusive vision of the planning and operationalization of a forest prevention and protection strategy against fires; an effective response mechanism is lacking, which is prepared to face large-scale events; a structural change in the forest is needed, which makes it more resilient, robust and appealing, so that small owners in it invest; sustained and effective cooperation is lacking among the entities, which should be the central mission of the Agency for Integrated Fire Management; there is a lack of a commitment to the training, qualification and scientific knowledge of fire-fighting agents; there is still a lack of sensitizing populations and freghey boards, giving them the appropriate means to be effective local civil protection agents in the fight against proximity; and there is a lack of the effectiveness of the promised forest registry. So much so that he's still missing, despite the speeches! As fires are the worst tragedy for biodiversity and for economic and environmental sustainability, it is urgent that the government actually make its fight and prevent a national mission. Not with studies, not with ads, but with effective policies on the ground. If so, you can count on the PSD. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u271	The honourable Member has a request for clarification from Mr Filipe Melo, to whom I shall immediately give the floor. You have the floor, Mr. Filipe Melo.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u272	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable Member has said that it is in the centre that virtue is. I must tell you that our country is full of normal attitudes. He's tired, he's tired, he can't stand these kinds of attitudes that the PSD proclaims. And I say more to you: if this wasn't really so important, why would your recently elected president go to Pedrogão on the day after his election? Oh, my God! [[Congrats from the CH.]] If it were not a matter of extreme importance, what would your President do there? Oh, my God! But these are questions to which the honourable Member will have the opportunity to answer. In this case, the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival requested the hearing of the former Minister of Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrito, of the Toyota Administrator, of the former Secretary-General of the Ministry of Internal Administration — this request I have here and which has been dropped by everyone in this House. The speaker displayed the document he mentioned. Would you like to explain why you refuse a hearing request, in such a serious case as the purchase of four vehicles, which is only advertised four years later? Oh, my God! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u273	In reply, Mrs Emília Cerqueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u274	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your question. First, I want to tell you something you've been distracted about. I know that Parliament has recently arrived, otherwise I would know that the Possible Committee of Parliamental Inquiry to the State's performance in the award of support following the 2017 fires in the Pinhal Interior area was authoritative, and required by the PSD. Therefore, the PSD has always given great importance to Pedrogon, fires and what happened in the central area. I know they're here now and they don't know. [[PSD applause.]] I have been the coordinator of this Committee of Inquiry and therefore for many years I have been concerned about this. Secondly, this partial, radical view, which sometimes has such an important matter, is not of the best interest. [[CH protests.]] When we talk about the centre here, Mr President, we talk about wisdom, sensitivity and responsibility in politics, and we do not make ourselves all criminals and everything we need at any time. The interest of the PSD is the country, it is the people, it is the territories, it is the development, it is the fight against fires. The President of the PSD visited Pedrogão, yes, immediately because they had just pointed out the five years and, for us, it was always a very expensive matter, even for the tragedies that occurred there.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u275	Mrs. Deputies, you've wasted your time, so you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u276	On the other hand, Mr President, this pure rhetoric, without content, is something that brings nothing new. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u277	What about the request? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u278	Now, I have the following situation here: Mrs Inês Sousa Real asked for the floor for an intervention, but she has only two seconds, so perhaps it is better not to do the intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u279	I agree, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u280	All right, Mrs. Deputy. I therefore give the floor to Mr Pedro Pinto of the Parliamentary Group of the Czech Republic, who has two minutes and 41 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u281	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to ask the Secretary of State if she accepts 30 or 40 seconds of arrival,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u282	One minute!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u283	...or one minute, to answer the questions we're going to ask you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u284	Mr Member, the Secretary of State does not have to answer. Please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u285	But you can answer it if you want!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u286	But I could say something. Well, the great concern since 2017, and it is important that we talk about this at the end of this debate, should have been to support the families who had suffered damage in the fires of Pedrogão, but could also have been used to reorganize the forest. What is certain is that neither one thing has been done nor another, in fact, the elements of the Socialist Party in that area of Pedrogão Grande were concerned about dealing with houses of second residence and doing such petty business, in a socialist way. That's what happened.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u287	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u288	The reconstruction of the houses was shameful, the petitioners who were doing to the people were ashamed and you must hear this because they did nothing, neither the Members elected by Leiria nor those elected by Castelo Branco or Guarda. They were all silent! The whole Socialist Party was silent with this great scandal! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. Secretary of State, I already know you won't answer me, because you don't have time, but the questions will stay in the air, so you understand. Where is the Minister of Internal Administration? This is the question we are asking and will mark this debate. The Secretary of State may not answer, but we ask the question. Another question that we ask is this: does it maintain or does it not keep statements about the algorithm? Is it, or is it not, in the statements by Minister Mariana Vieira da Silva? What is certain is that this is the Socialist Party: in the same way that the committees of inquiry do not want, as we have seen here last week, and the demands of the Arrival to know what happens with the fires, the Socialist Party is the absolute prepotence, it is the absolute silence.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u289	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u290	We will always fight against it! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u291	The Bureau no longer registers, so we close the debate of the Interpellation to the Government No 2 / XV / 1. a (CH) — On successive failures in the fight against fires. on this occasion, I give the floor, for the closing intervention, for a period of 6 minutes, to Mr André Ventura, of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u292	I have 7 minutes, Mr President, because we have been left one minute from the time of the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u293	Yes, I understand, I think so, Mr. Deputies. I ask the services to add the time spent in the debate at the time of closure. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u294	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: At the close of this debate, a bit strange and loaded, there are some doubts, but there are also some conclusions. The conclusion remains that Mr. Minister of Internal Administration understood that being in a boarding house ceremony or being in any symbolic ceremony was more important than responding to Portuguese. I don't think we should look at this solace thing. We should realize that, just as the Minister of Justice refused to come to Parliament last week, the Minister of Internal Administration refuses to come to talk about fires and civil protection at the House where he has to respond and before the Members to whom he has to answer. This must be seen by our democracy as a very significant red line, which we must not be able to overcome. The Minister sent the Secretary of State for Patrícia Gaspar to the «line of combat » to the Secretary of State, who came here to respond to absolutely nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u295	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u296	Yes, it did, yes, do what the Socialist Party does best: say that for the week it will begin the contest so that today such experts have been heard... We have even had an intervention in which it was said that we will have the prevention done in 10 years. Tomorrow, for the week, in the coming month, all the time that is not now and that is not the responsibility of the Socialist Party. It's always next week or the other that the Portuguese will have answers.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u297	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u298	However, there are questions which should be clarified today and which have not been left: does the Minister maintain his confidence in this Secretary of State or let her come to Parliament's 'line of fire' to 'burn' even more, as was done with Eduardo Cabrito and, before that, with Urban Constance of Sousa? Oh, my God! Does Antonio Costa trust Patrícia Gaspar or let him come here today, Patrícia Gaspar to be "burned up" by all parliamentary groups, except for his, that, in fact, he received very little applause, so that he could go home one day? Oh, my God! The Secretary of State said we should pay tribute to firefighters and civil protection today. I think so too. The whole country finds it. But, Madam Secretary of State, there is no tribute to firemen and civil protection with proclamational speeches here in Parliament, when, later in the State budget, they vote against the firemen's risk allowance, vote against more conditions and more means of transport and vote against something so simple, which is that of firemen, in ambulances, do not pay tolls.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u299	Truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u300	I wanted the Portuguese to hear this: firefighters pay tolls! Repeat: Firemen pay tolls! As long as the vans carrying the prisoners don't pay them, the firemen have to pay. It's the opposite country! The country unlike the one we should have and we don't! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Yes, Madam Secretary of State, today we expected him to come here to talk about careers, risk subsidies, room conditions and regional and sub-regional controls. We were hoping that he would come to give hope in the fight against fires, but what he told us was that he did not change a comma from what he said. So, Madam Secretary of State, since you are going to talk to me next, I would like you to be able to reply to the following: keep the statements in which you said that you were even waiting for more area burned this year in Portugal? Oh, my God! He has been running away from the debate and answering the question, but it is so simple: « I keep» or « I do not keep ». Do you keep or see the government's number two statements, which says that the fires were an opportunity? Oh, my God! Mr Frazão has shown us today images that shock anyone. And the government sees this as an opportunity. On top of destruction, fear, death and fire, the government sees an opportunity. Is the Minister revising, or is she not, in these words? And does the Secretary of State see, or not, the words of the Minister, which is number two of the Government of Antonio Costa? The Secretary of State, today in this Parliament, before this House and the country, said « we do not want to blame », « we do not want to blame, we want solutions ». This is the typical speech of those who are found above the law: "Yes, we have failed; yes, people have died; yes, houses have been burned; yes, thousands of animals have died; yes, thousands of houses have been destroyed; yes, but we do not want to blame, we want to look forward and to the future." «Yes, there were roads destroyed; yes, there were tragedies found, there were bodies found; yes, there were lives destroyed forever, but we do not want to blame; yes, there are lives that will never be the same; yes, there are families that have lost everything, but we do not want to blame». This was the speech that the Secretary of State brought us here today. For let me tell you, Madam Secretary of State, that the country wants to blame, responsible and wants to hold you accountable for what happened. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The country wants responsibility and demands responsibility. No, sir. Members of the PSD, the warm attitude with the Socialist Party and with the government has already led to bad results and will continue to lead, if they persist in it. Do not be deceived, there is no national interest behind the idea that there is a responsible party and that therefore is always there to serve as a crutch for the failures of the Socialist Party. There is a passive, warm, permanent subservient attitude with which we must end in this Parliament. Yes, the PS has an absolute majority and, yes, the Government of António Costa is legitimate and has an absolute majority. But when you're wrong, we have to say here that you're wrong...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u301	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u302	... and, when responsibility is required, we must say here that responsibility is required. [[Congrats from the CH.]] From north to south of the country, in the autonomous regions and in mainland Portugal, all the testimonies that come to us are about gross failures in the SIRESP, in the communications network and in the coordination of civil protection. From the north to the south of the country, associations that do not depend on the government — i.e. those who do not receive money from the government — point out failures and say what was wrong, without fear. The arrival asked that contracts that are not public be made public and called attention to contracts that only four years later have become public, but it seems that no one else cares about that. While the country burns, while the discoordination happens to discoordination, while the government says it is always for 10 years, 5 or 2 years, no one has the courage to say the obvious. It's like the king was naked, right here in front, and we were afraid to say the obvious. And the obvious is very simple: the Secretary of State Patrícia Gaspar has no conditions to continue in the Government of Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]] That is why, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the arrival today called the government because it understood to be a national imperative. We have done so, using one of the positive rights that the Portuguese have assigned to us, as the third largest national political force. While others felt that the Minister of Internal Administration should be heard in a closed committee, we wanted him to face the country, because the greatest pain is not ours, the greatest pain is that of our compatriots.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u303	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u304	I will finish, Mr. President. The greatest pain is not ours, the greatest pain is that of those who have lost everything. That requires this Parliament to stand up to demand responsibility. If others want to remain silent, if others prefer to flee, if others prefer to retreat, the coming, today, as always and always will, will be in the fight, on the first line, not for us, not for you, not for anyone in this room, but for the thousands of Portuguese who, this summer, have lost everything. It is to them our tribute, it is to them that we work, that we must be responsible. [[Ch's applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u305	To close the debate, you have the floor by the Government, the Secretary of State for Civil Protection, Patrícia Gaspar.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u306	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We have today been called to be here in the House of Democracy for an interpellation, presented by the party Arrival, about, supposedly, alleged failures in the fight against fires.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u307	Attached? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u308	We now realize, returned almost two hours, that the real objective of this interpellation was only to get antenna right to a narrative that at nothing contributes... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... for the debate that really matters and that at nothing contributes to the debate that the Portuguese deserve.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u309	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u310	Was it written? It was written, wasn't it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u311	The ongoing work in the area of civil protection is the mirror of a political and unequivocal commitment from the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u312	It's the mirror of the country!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u313	That is why it is before you today the member of the government who has direct responsibility in the area of civil protection. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Minister of Internal Administration doesn't steal from any presence here...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u314	So where is he? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u315	...and he'll be here twice next week as planned. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u316	But where is he? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u317	It's a cut!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u318	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: While investing in civil protection and reducing the risk of disaster, there is no zero risk in Portugal or any country in the world. We are not the ones who say it, are the main responsible for the main organisations working in this field,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... in particular, the United Nations. Climate change calls on all of us to change the paradigm. That is the amendment we are undergoing, as we are now well aware of. The year 2022 should make us reflect, adjust and correct, but it cannot question or question five years of hard work, with the teachings and the political options that we have withdrawn from 2017, because going back is no option. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u319	In the face of a global and real crisis, of which we are all potential victims, choices seem clear to us. The choices are to continue to work, with a serious commitment to options and policies that can really make the difference. We will continue to work on reviewing policy instruments at the operational level and strategic planning level. We will continue to work on strengthening means and really strategic means that matter and that can make the difference. We will continue to work in the professionalization of teams and in support of firefighter bodies and humanitarian associations that hold firefighter bodies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u320	I mean, you're gonna keep burning!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u321	We will continue to bet on the policy of proximity to the territories, the autarchs, the citizens and other partners. We will continue to bet on the preparation of populations, especially those living daily with the risk of rural fire. And we will continue to promote a serious process of lessons learned and of sharing good practices. It is time to wait and study carefully what the fire assessment process will bring us, here being the serious and unequivocal commitment that nothing will be left for scrutiny and that we will do everything so that the lessons taken can improve our system. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: The great options play now and seriously. And, in fact, there is no time to lose with a narrative that will help us at all, that at nothing will help Portugal and the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-21.u322	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I should therefore like to conclude this debate. I shall now indicate the agenda for tomorrow, 22 September and the first point shall be the election of a Vice-President of the Assembly of the Republic. The agenda was drawn up by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group for consideration of Bill No 280 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Creates the land bank and land mobilization fund, which drags, to be discussed together, the following legislative initiatives: Bills No. 249 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Approves a national deeucalization programme, 261 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Definition and execution of procedures for post-fire situations and 297 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Creates the public bank of agricultural land; and Resolution Projects Nos. 179 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government develop an action plan to address the damage caused by the July 2022 fires, 182 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government adopt forest management measures and review the Integrated Rural Fire Management System, 183 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government create support measures for forest, agricultural and environmental enterprises during contingency and alert periods 201 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the renaturalization and prohibition of hunting in the Natural Park of Serra da Estrela and 221 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Emergency Programme for Star Serra. Finally, tomorrow's session will conclude — I would ask attention to this aspect — with the normal votes, which usually take place on Friday, because there will be a solemn session on Friday. I mean, then, that tomorrow, Thursday, 22nd, at the end of the parliamentary debate, scheduled by the Socialist Party, there will be regiment votes. I therefore finish my work today, thanking everyone, especially the Government, who has been represented here. [[It was 17 hours and 49 minutes.]]
