ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority. We will start this meeting of the Standing Committee of the Assembly of the Republic. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] The agenda for today has two points: a second item with votes and a first item consisting of a debate with the participation of the Minister of Internal Administration on elections in the European circle. As you know, the repeat of the elections took place at the end of last week and, therefore, in order not to interfere with the electoral period, by consensus at the Conference of Leaders, we have marked the debate for today. To present this topic, I have the floor to Ms. Minister of Internal Administration, Francisca Van Dunem, whom I would like to greet, taking advantage of this moment to tell you how our relationship, political and personal, was always very important. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the architecture of the Portuguese electoral system it is the responsibility of the Government, through the electoral administration, which is based in the area of Internal Administration, for the organization and technical support for the execution of electoral processes, for the dissemination of public information on the system and electoral acts and also for the promotion of electoral participation. The electoral administration, as an executive body, has no power. The electoral administration has no enabling title for decision-making on material electoral issues. It is therefore limited to the information component in which it produces, inter alia, information books and leaflets, to outline procedures and to transcribe the law or interpretations made of the same law by the bodies which therefore have the authority, in particular the National Elections Commission ( NEC ). And it has, above all, a very important role in the organization of the logistics of this whole process. With regard to the postal vote of national citizens living abroad in the current electoral process — and that is what we are talking about — the electoral administration had to take on a set of procedures which I would like to highlight. First, the establishment of a multidisciplinary working group, integrating the Directorate-General for Consular Affairs and the Portuguese Communities, the National Press House of Currency, the CTTs ( Post Offices of Portugal ) and the company hired for the production of the so-called "sent packages". This working group has accompanied, since November 2021, the entire process of disclosure, production, dispatch and distribution of electoral documentation for voting by post. The electoral administration also ensured the production of the materials and subsequent dispatch to a total of 1 515 075 voters of the letters containing the ballot, as well as the envelope of return and practical information to facilitate the procedure. In all the envelopes sent, an explanatory leaflet was inserted, very simple, very clear, pointing to the need to send a copy of the identification document. Within the scope of the working group to which I refer, the electoral administration has associated itself with the TTCs in order to disseminate, through the Universal Postal Union, the realization of this electoral act, the disclosure of the information that these packages would be sent, with the relevant documents, drawing attention to their processing and rapid distribution. In addition, in conjunction with the electoral administration, the TTCs have also taken an autonomous initiative to go directly to the 10 countries in which we have the highest concentration of our communities, which gather about 85% of voters, and all voters have access to the electronic portal, created after the 2019 legislative elections, which allows them to follow up the route of correspondence sent to the various countries. I would like to recall, because time has passed and memory is selective, that all this happened at the acuteest stage of the pandemic, at a time when the services were discussed with extreme difficulties associated with the high number of absences by disease or confinement. It was a period in which, due to the need to reduce the number of people in the various spaces, it was necessary to organize mirror work teams and ensure stopping intervals between shift changes, so that teams would not cross and, of course, also allow the hygiene of spaces. The commitment and total dedication of the electoral administration in this process are evident, in particular, in the exponential increase in the number of ballots sent to foreign voters — more than 55 000 than in 2019 — and it should also be recalled that in the election by 2015 there was a universe of approximately 300 000 voters involved. The commitment of the electoral administration is also visible: in the creation of this portal, which allowed voters living abroad to track the communications sent to them; in the creation of electronic notebooks to facilitate the voting process; in the large increase in the number of clearance tables; in the identification of a space that would allow the final clearance operations to be carried out, with respect to the limitations associated with pandemic control. The 260 118 response envelopes received represent an increase in electoral participation of 76, 6 % compared to 2019. I can therefore state that the electoral administration has done its duty with clarity, has done its duty with honor, and, for me, it is an obligation of conscience to affirm it, here and now, without ambiguities. We are not talking about an abstract reality or fiction, but a structure composed of women and men who have given the best they knew and could, who have been able to overcome a moment of unique difficulty and who can take pride in having done the task of organizing an electoral act with the highest levels of participation in the last few decades. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the election administration and the government are, of course, all over again! — other than the facts that gave rise to the decision of the Constitutional Court, but this decision was hardly known, as well as the deliberations of the National Elections Commission, which defined a new date for the repetition of the vote in the electoral circle of Europe, the electoral administration prepared, in a record time and in a deeply committed and professional manner, the whole process leading to the repetition of the vote. To this end, it was necessary to produce and pass a new ballot by competing parties and coalitions; to ensure the urgent printing of more printed for votes by the National House of Currency Press, because it is recalled that the election now taking place was not predictable and therefore this second vote is already taking place in a context in which, in some way, the unpredictability is greater; to produce more information materials, in different formats, for a large universe of voters, having been sent about 926 000 letters to voters listed in the European circle, in a total of 36 countries, in a process beginning on 21 February; to change the models of shipping envelopes and response envelopes, to ensure that there was no confusion with previous envelopes and that there were no misconceptions; and to ensure that the automatic «envelop» of all documentation to be sent to voters. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, not everything we do goes well. by acting, we were right, but we were also wrong. The important thing is that we are able to repair the error and improve the margin of correctness. I'm here, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to answer the questions that I would like to ask and in the end to recognize responsibilities that so far do not allow me to identify the facts I know. at this moment when I address VV. For example, I am encouraged by the well-founded conviction that the Government has done everything and continues to do everything to ensure that elections to the Assembly of the Republic run with the minimum of embarrassment and with the maximum possible participation of our constituent citizens, regardless of the location of their residence. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u3	You have the floor to ask questions from the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr José Silvano.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u4	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members, the PSD cannot fail to regret that only now, one month and four days later, it is possible to discuss such an important issue, when the debate on the subject in the public and the media is almost exhausted. What the PSD wanted to avoid with this debate seems to have happened again in one of the parties with thousands of migrants who did not receive the ballot, as the President of the Council of the Portuguese Communities pointed out in Europe. Portuguese voters living abroad are not second-class citizens, they are as Portuguese as national citizens living in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u6	Therefore, the valid votes of migrants could not have been mixed with invalid votes, which did not contain the photocopy of the citizen card or identity card. The voting tables did not have that right. It was worth noting that the PSD had filed protests to avoid such an illegal procedure of the tables because most of them did not want to know this and the result was seen by everyone: they were considered null than 80 % of the votes of migrants in the circle of Europe. What happened on February 8 and 9th 2022 will be in the years of history as having been tragic days for Portuguese immigrants and for Portuguese democracy. It was a national shame! It was two days in which most tables, in a total of 151, committed the manifest illegality of considering as valid the votes that came unaccompanied from the photocopy of the citizen card. Now, the Election Law for the Assembly of the Republic is very clear and leaves no margin for doubt: for the vote to be valid, the white envelope must contain inside the photocopy of the citizen card or identity card; if not contained, the vote is null. We must not forget that this legal requirement is intended to ensure the personality of the vote and the prevention of possible electoral fraud, which is why it cannot be waived. This is therefore, in the view of the PSD, a requirement that must be maintained in the law, and its compliance must be ensured. Don't you agree, Minister? Oh, my God! The question is relevant, because some Members and leaders of the Socialist Party have already publicly stated that the objective is to eliminate this legal requirement. The tables were based on a « grossly illegal » agreement to use the qualification given in the Constitutional Court judgment, where representatives of some parties agreed at a meeting on 18 January to accept as valid all ballots, even if the envelope did not contain a copy of the citizenship card or identity card, since, and in this part, the latter reproduces a sentence of the deliberations of the CNE of 15 October 2019, « the consignment by the copy voter of the identification document serves in the end and only as a reinforcement of the guarantees of the personal exercise of the vote ». This agreement is based on a CNE deliberation that does not say what the representatives of some parties thought it said, thus influencing others who thought that the CNE opinion was clear. The CNE itself would recognize that the content of this deliberation was truncated by some parties, interpreting it incorrectly as the exemption from the photocopy of the identification document in order to accept the vote as valid, when, in fact, what that same deliberation said was that the identification was not relevant to the voter's discharge in the electoral books, but it was relevant for the purpose of the vote's validity. Representatives of some parties not only disregarded the prescribed in the law as distorting the position assumed by the CNE. That is why the PSD representatives came to the next meeting on 4 February to inform the representatives of the other parties that it was not possible to maintain the agreement, since this was clearly contrary to the law and the PSD could not deal with such illegality. Worse than to go wrong is to persist in the mistake. Unfortunately, this was what the representatives of the other parties did, who eventually gave instructions to the members of the tables themselves designated, in order to consider valid the unaccompanied votes of photocopy of the identification document. That is why most of the tables have validated such votes, which the law determines to be null, mixing them with valid votes. We have no doubt in saying that some members of the tables have deliberately and consciously done so, which is why the PSD has filed a criminal complaint with the Attorney-General of the Republic. Where, then, does the responsibility of the Government and, in particular, of the Minister come in? We began to explain: from then on, in the training actions given to the members of the tables, the MAI (Ministry of Internal Administration) was not able to explain the procedure to adopt case the photocopy of the voter's civil identification document was not contained within the white envelope, not having sent them, perennially, that the law considered such null votes. instead, the MAI preferred to insist that the tables were sovereign to, in these cases, decide how they understood, giving breath to what would happen on 8 and 9 February. Madam Minister, when is the MAI mission to technically support electoral processes, how does this lack of information explain? Do not forget that the members of the tables are, in the majority, ordinary citizens, without any legal knowledge, and therefore this legal clarification by the MAI is required. Do you not think, Madam Minister, that, in these training actions, it was incendiary that MAI had thrown to the voting tables the responsibility of deciding on the validity of the unaccompanied votes of photocopy of the citizen's card, without even warning that the sovereignty of the tables has ultimate limit to obedience and respect for the law? But the government's responsibility is not left here. The MAI issued a note, which sent on 13 February, where it considered it deplorable to cancel such a large number of votes, never giving its opinion on the illegalities committed by the tables and which were at the origin of that annulment, passing the idea that the tables would be normal to mix valid votes with invalids. Mr Minister, how could the MAI pass this idea and have not unequivocally censored, in this note, this procedure followed by the tables? Oh, my God! Do not forget that the MAI itself also endorsed in this note the deliberations of the CNE, of October 2019, considering that the acceptance of ballot papers, whether or not accompanied by a copy of the identification document, was, and I quote, "an option which the CNE itself subscribed to in an approved deliberations in October 2019", which is not true and which the CNE itself denied. Mrs. Minister, do you regret sending this note to the media? On the side of the PSD, we are aware of this because, days before counting the votes, we have warned the need for compliance with the law, we have protested the vows that came without photocopying of the citizen card or identity card, because they are null, and the Constitutional Court has come to give us reason. Determined the repetition of electoral acts, a new phase began in this process, and it is essential to ensure that everything is going well this time. It was therefore urgent for this hearing, and it is now perfectly extemporaneous. Mr Minister, are new training actions planned for the members of the tables before the counting of votes on 22 and 23 March? Will they be able to explain the implications of the judgment in the procedures to be adopted at the tables? Another question which may be raised and which needs further explanations, on the basis of which a new challenge may arise, is the following: why did the MAI proceed to send the ballots to voters listed throughout the electoral circle of Europe when the Constitutional Court ruling only sent the vote to the 151 tables whose votes were declared null and void because there had been a mixture of valid votes with invalids? [[Rice from PS Pedro do Carmo's deputy.]] As the Minister well knows, if the Constitutional Court had to repeat the vote in 50 tables of a national electoral circle, the repetition of the vote would be only and exclusively in those 50 tables and not throughout the national territory. What is the reason for MAI to act differently in relation to the electoral circle in Europe? For all the reasons I have, and you will certainly have, it is necessary to give a more objective explanation so that this is not an obstacle to the normal process. Is it not possible that the dematerialized electoral books have less information than the paper-printed electoral books, and that this prevents, in the circles of emigration, the identification of voters by table? Oh, my God! Madam Minister, it is essential that you explain this situation so that there is no doubt about the legality of the second vote. I conclude by stressing that the PSD is, and will continue to be, a party committed to valuing Portuguese citizens living abroad and that it will not cease to increase legislative solutions that increase their electoral participation, in particular by extending to them the option of voting by correspondence as an alternative to the face-to-face vote, in the presidential elections and in the European elections, and even by considering the possibility of the introduction of electronic voting, a measure that would ultimately solve all these problems. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u7	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u8	Mr President, Mr José Silvano, asked questions of different orders. That which has basically to do with the annulment of the votes is related to a matter which has been discussed and articulated between the political parties and for which the Government has neither had nor could have any intervention. It is true that, in the first phase, the physical space in which the decisions were made was a room of the Ministry of Internal Administration, a room handed over by the electoral administration, but this was the only intervention the Government had in this matter, fulfilling its duty. Therefore, Mr President, there is a part of your speech that, as I say to you, does not have the government as a recipient. You will certainly have the political parties with whom you then negotiated this agreement, which finally determined this final result. But there are issues which Mr, legitimately, raised that have to do with the electoral administration. The first has to do with the immigrants who have not received the ballot papers, and the honourable Member has referred to thousands of migrants who have not yet received them. Mr President, the latest data I have point out that between 72% and 99% of immigrants have actually received the ballot papers and therefore we have a very high percentage of people who have already received them. Obviously, either in this election, or in others, there may be failures in deliveries or answers and we will investigate the reasons why some people may not have received the ballots. In the previous vote there was a similar situation and we have the report on the causes that determined that people had not received the ballot. As regards the issue of the elimination of the legal requirement, I also tell you that it is not exactly the subject that the Government is going to discuss. I believe that this is something that must be discussed by the political parties and, more than that, even in the next Parliament. As regards training actions, I would like to say that in fact, the electoral administration has carried out training actions with the members of the tables. More than that, he produced even a manual for the tables, the Electoral Table Members' Manual — Collecting and Counting Meetings of Foreign Residents' Votes, which he delivered to all members of the voting tables. The speaker showed the manual she mentioned. The so many pages of this manual are a document that I brought in visible size. The speaker showed the document she mentioned. in this document, in the chapter on valid votes, null votes and empty votes, it is clearly said: "No vote shall be deemed to be void if the person who does not contain photocopy of the citizen card or identity card. » This is in the manual and this is what the electoral administration said in the training it did to the members of the tables. On this point, Mr President, I would like to take it that there has been no omission or error on the part of the electoral administration that may now be harassed. The honourable Member also referred to a statement that MAI issued and I would like to tell him that, considering the electoral rules, that the tables have a power similar to the power of a court and that, obviously, the government will not censor what was done by the tables, what the government made was a statement of pity with the description of what had happened, not issuing judgments of value in relation to one situation or another. Therefore, the Government was absolutely neutral and rigorous in what it said. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The reference that you make to the note with the indication that the CNE endorsed the understanding is a reference made to the discharge of votes. The opinion of the NEC on the discharge of votes states, at a certain point, that, for discharge purposes, the identification document may be considered to be one more than the already fragile pre-existing identification elements. This was the framework in which the Ministry of Internal Administration produced this note. It is obvious that we will do new training actions in which we will be careful to identify all areas in which we consider that there may be doubts, making a very strong orientation in the direction of its clarification. Then he asked me another question which, I confess, Mr President, left me a little startled. He asked me why the MAI decided to send votes to the whole circle of Europe. Mr President, as far as I know — and the CNE itself acknowledged it — the votes were all mixed, which means that we could not make a distinction. See, this happened at almost all of the tables of the electoral circle in Europe and therefore it was not possible to make the distinction to self-reliance. If that was possible, it was great for us, it would give us much less work. If, on the MAI side, it had been possible to take this option, this would have been clearly more favorable to us. So we just didn't take it because, materially, it was impossible to do it. Finally, with regard to the issue of electronic voting, I do not want, nor do I have to, speak about the future. The question of electronic voting will certainly be discussed in the next Parliament, and the only thing we can talk about — the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs is here and in a position to do so — is the evolution that has taken place and the presentation that has even been made in Parliament on the experience of electronic voting for the Council of the Portuguese Communities. There was no further progress on that. What was done was a pilot experiment to understand the limit and the possibility of moving forward with this model. There was a report, a presentation was made and therefore that is the state of the nation in this matter. As for the future, you will be — those who are — to decide. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u9	To put questions, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u10	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: This debate is, firstly, an attempt to wash away the heavy consciousness that the PSD has throughout the imbroglio that has been created and, secondly, a part — I believe — of the request for an apology that should exist to the Portuguese and Portuguese who have seen their votes invalidated, who have felt overwhelmed by a process that is totally foreign to them. Therefore, in the speech made by the PSD in this debate, this request for apologies to all and to all Portuguese immigrants who saw their votes canceled by this joke in which the PSD transformed a number of elections. The PSD did not explain, even as it did, that in the midst of so much justice that it existed and that it demanded, in the midst of such transparency, in the midst of so much certainty, it finally had two weights and two measures. The same PSD accepted rules for the circle outside of Europe that rejected the circle of Europe. It's absolutely incomprehensible! I repeat: it is absolutely incomprehensible! If there is something that people do not understand, as far as the law is concerned—and I will go there—is the two pesos and the two PSD measures, because it seems more they look at the elections not as the noblest act of a democratic space, but only with the intention to see which dividends they will withdraw from the electoral act. That is the wrong way to see an electoral act, which is not a game, is the most noble space of our democracy and that is how it should have been seen by all and by all, with this respect, not respect for the parties, not respect it for something else but the people who voted and the tens of thousands of votes, which have been wrongly cancelled. This is the first point I would like to leave on the table, as well as the firm and direct criticism to the whole role of the PSD in this context. Secondly, I leave on the left side of the Block, an apology to all Portuguese and all Portuguese who live outside the country, our migrants, our communities. At least for our part, we assume what we are supposed to be, we should have prepared these elections differently, and I believe that this is a frontal point that we should also have here. The law was wrong, it should have been stirred and the Left Block tried to move into the law. We were able to put into the law the amendment that ended with the existence of first Portuguese and second Portuguese, depending on whether they voted in national territory or voted outside the country. That is because, if they voted outside the country and by mail, they would have to pay that vote and we ended it. We managed to get that will to be accompanied by other benches—and so well! We will alter the form of census and thus bring to the census due to more than 1 million people, and we are proud of it, but we cannot change in the law what should have been changed, which is part of the presentation of the copy of the citizenship card. There is here a question that is on the table and which is serious: how can there not be a guarantee of the suitability of the vote? I believe that this question would be, because I heard the PSD changing its mind, in its speech just recently, when it never put the electronic vote on the table. In several discussions we had on this subject, the PSD always rejected the electronic vote and now came to say that it defended it, which I had never heard. However, the electronic vote itself is not without danger, as we have seen in several countries recently. in the same way, we know that presenceal voting is not without dangers either, but everything that departs from this presenceal vote increases the risk. So we realized that what was behind the law, in a very old way—when the vote was put in mail, I should bring a copy of the citizen's card — I had this concern to give more fitness, to give more security to that vote. However, I believe it is not the only solution and it is a solution that even conflicts with other laws in this context. It even conflicts with data safeguard guarantees, because having copies of official documents to be circulated between mails from foreign countries is something that may call into question the suitability of that information. However, nowadays, in the relationship we have with the citizen card, with the forms of digital signature, there are guarantees of validation of identity that serve as examples where we can learn to improve the law. This is another topic on which I would like to leave the Left Block's availability to surgically change the law to ensure that it becomes clearer, that it keeps, from the point of view of security assurance, all the principles it currently has and that it gives greater fidelity to the expectation that people have in order to exercise their right to vote when they do so outside the country. This availability of the Left Block is a part that I believe has been missing here to the PSD, in the sense of the humility of hearing for this improvement. This aspect that we all owe to Portuguese and Portuguese outside the country, which is humility, also lacks the intervention of the PSD. Madam Minister, I have heard your opening speech and I must tell you that there is a part that I disagreed with and I am very frontal to tell you what it was: we have heard everything in life, and there was only now, about the electoral process, to tell us that the blame is for the pandemic. Well, the pandemic has wide backs! in this country, a considerable part of the problems currently arise from the pandemic, even if the pandemic has nothing to do with it. I understand: there were mirror teams, there were people down there, there were a set of problems that, in fact, the pandemic brought. But it does not have such wide backs where all the responsibilities in this context are depleted by the pandemic. I don't think so. There are things we should have learned with 2019 and we didn't learn. As regards the relationship with postal services from other countries, something should have been done to ensure this speed in letters and respect for this type of mail. There had to be a guarantee of freeness, because we had examples from the United Kingdom in which the free mail was put in question because they did not recognize the RSF (free answer) of returning the letter. These are concrete examples that should have been guarded. The Minister said: "Well, but we had a record time to make these elections." But, Madam Minister, as it is usually said, "the insurance died as an old person" and, in this matter, the MAI must be permanently active to ensure that, at any time, when there are elections, because they do not always arrive at the appointed time, it is time to respond to the needs and I believe that this caution did not exist here. Once again, the Minister will say that the pandemic is to blame, but I do not think that the pandemic is to blame for the preparation that should have existed and now it seems to me that this preparation does not come only from the MAI, the MNE itself (Ministry of Foreign Affairs) should be involved in this diplomatic operation with other countries. Mr President, I conclude by saying that I hope that we can all learn so that these mistakes will not be repeated in the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u11	To reply, you have the floor of Ms. Minister of Internal Administration, Francisca Van Dunem.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of apology, I believe that I was obviously not addressed to myself, but I would like to point out that Mr Prime Minister, as soon as that happened, took care to apologize on behalf of the Government to our fellow citizens who have indeed been disappointed in his intention to participate in that electoral act. With regard to the issue of citizenship cards, I just wanted to note the following: what the electoral administration has been able to understand, as far as this matter is concerned, is that there are indeed many situations in which voters feel conditional on sending the citizen card. Obviously, there is fear of misuse, of deviation from correspondence. There are cases in which, in countries, there is a ban on the extraction of photocopies from identification documents or in which this is seen with some mistrust, particularly in countries affected by terrorist issues and in which there are networks of documents for the use of terrorist organisations. Therefore, I realize that there may still be relevant segments of voters who, at the moment and despite the indication that they must send the citizen card, have difficulties or doubts in doing so. I think it will be necessary to walk or actually find answers to this and once again I say that the next Parliament will surely find them. Mr President, there is a misunderstanding when you say I attributed all the blame to the pandemic. I didn't. What I did was to say that I understood that this group of people, women and men, members of the electoral administration, which are 31, and that, in that context, had to prepare and carry out this electoral act, had increased difficulties, but nevertheless did so. And more than that, I have explained everything that, from my point of view, should be exalted with regard to the action of these people. I introduced here the pandemic factor just because sometimes it's easy—and memories are selective! — forget the concrete context in which all this happened. When this happens, we are going through the worst pandemic period in Portugal, we have 600 000 people in prison and, in general, there are difficulties with both air transport and even with regard to local mail distribution issues. So I call the pandemic just to say, firstly, that these people in the electoral administration do not deserve this repair, they, on the contrary, deserve a compliment, because, under particularly difficult conditions and in small numbers, they have been able to achieve this result. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Whether we want this is not a final result that honors us. I do not deny that there may be difficulties, that there may be areas in which improvement is necessary, but this does not justify what I have heard: calling the MAI of incompetent, calling from incompetent the electoral administration,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u13	That was on that side!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u14	... and other things that, from my point of view, are deep and serious, and more than grave, injustice. Now, in my speech, I had the express care to say, in relation to the relationship with the other postal services, that a working group was created which had the intervention not only of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but also of the CTTs, of course, that, from this point of view, everything was indeed guarded. And why did he stay? On the one hand, because we had a platform that promised to track correspondence, on the other hand, because the CTTs initially issued a communication to the Universal Postal Union, which means, in principle, for a very large number of associates to explain that there would be that election in that period, that those envelopes would be sent—until they sent copies of the envelopes! — and to request that care be taken at the level of the various associates in the processing and rapid distribution of this material. But we did more than that: at the same time, the TTCs, also within this working group and with all that was organized by the electoral administration, did, moreover, deliver specific communications to their fellows of the areas in which there is greater concentration of Portuguese communities. There are 10 countries covering around 85% of this electorate and the postal services of these 10 countries have all received a letter from the TTC with a request for attention, a request for disclosure and, more than that, copies to the envelope itself, either from the shipping envelope or from the return envelope, to facilitate and expedite this process. With regard to the last question you mentioned and which has to do with some countries that do not accept the payment burden, as soon as we have heard from that indication, we proceed with payments. There was intervention by the MNE, intervention by the consulates and quickly made payments, which is why there was no difficulties. Obviously, we will have to work to ensure that these difficulties do not occur next time, but I must also say that, in this context, they exist, but have been overcome. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u15	Mr António Filipe has the floor to speak and ask questions by the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u16	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Secretary of State, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate takes place under unfortunate circumstances and there is a lot of unhappiness here. It is unfortunate that the Assembly of the Republic, elected on January 30, will only be installed two months after that election. This is obviously an undesirable situation which results from an agreement made between various parties, an agreement that is, in fact, unfortunate. We must understand that the decision was not taken in bad faith, but in the conviction that many citizens, out of ignorance, did not send a copy of their citizenship card or identity card, as is legally required, and that there was a very significant number of votes considered null by that circumstance. They have therefore found a consensualized form, but, in fact, it is unfortunate because it does not resist a legal imperative, which is the fact that this requirement is contained in the law and must be respected. Then there is an unhappiness which is the fact that a party — in this case, the PSD — which had given consensus that this should be done, think better and say that, after all, this consensus is not given, creating conditions for the Constitutional Court, by applying the law, which is irrevocable, to have taken the decision to force the repetition of the election. And there is another unhappiness: it is that this election is repeated in the electoral circle of Europe, but since the PSD did not make the same complaint about the electoral circle outside Europe, some of the votes relating to it were cancelled and so remained, so only the repetition of the elections in the electoral circle of Europe was made. Well, this is more a unhappiness. As I said before, there's a lot of unhappiness here. We also consider that this requirement makes sense, it does not happen by chance and is not new. Moreover, the requirement for citizens to follow their vote on the copy of their citizenship card — at the time, identity card and now, citizenship card or identity card for those who still hold it — is well before the expansion of the electoral universe of Portuguese citizens living abroad. It is very early to acknowledge that correspondence voting has weaknesses, hence it has been understood that it was advisable to strengthen the personal character of the exercise of the sense of vote by joining a copy of an identification document of the electorate. from our point of view, it makes sense that this is the case and that this requirement should be maintained, because it was recognised as necessary not now, but more than 20 years ago, I do not know exactly what the moment of this change was, but it certainly happened about two decades ago. Therefore, from our point of view, this requirement is justified. Another unfortunate circumstance was the fact that the PSD decided to file a criminal complaint against the members of the voting tables, which is regrettable. Of course, because the members of the voting tables certainly did not act in a bad way, they did not act with pain, on the contrary, their wish was that the vote of the citizens could be validated as much as possible. Of course they did it in a way that did not resist a legal imperative, but from there even to present a complaint-crime against these citizens goes a great distance. In addition, I believe that the country is a creditor of recognition to the citizens who ensure the functioning of the electoral process outside the country and also in the national territory, which is often forgotten. We see much ease in the speech on this matter, when it is said, for example, that the early vote should be independent of any registration, voting the citizen on Sunday that he understands. Now, this is to disregard the enormous effort that tens of thousands of citizens are making to ensure the proper functioning of the electoral process. And there too is due tribute to the political parties as a whole, because they also develop a very great effort to mobilize citizens to ensure the functioning of the electoral process and the necessary supervision of it. Therefore, to lodge a criminal complaint against these citizens is, in our view, absolutely regrettable. Since they referred here, even though a little outside this debate, some aspects related to the electoral process, I wanted to make it very clear that elections in democracy are not a field for experimentalisms that may have very negative consequences. In our country, we held free elections, in democracy, 47 years ago, and, regardless of some difficulties, that there could be complaints, protests, of having had difficulties at some times when there were sudden changes, as happened, for example, with the end of the voter card, we had the luck of never having the elections, in Portugal, been put in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u17	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u18	I'm done now, Mr. President. This is a great value, because on the day when, by experimentalism, by electronic votes or by excessive facilitation of the electoral process, someone will question the democratization of the electoral system, then we can say that, in democracy, "we have the broth surrounded" and that will be deeply negative for the health of the democratic regime. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u19	Before giving the floor, in reply, to the Minister for Internal Administration, she wanted to tell the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, we must now register for the purpose of voting quorum, as there will be votes at the end of this meeting. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u20	Mr President, Mr António Filipe, in essence, I agree with the references you have made, namely, in the recognition that it is essential for the country to make citizens who participate in the voting tables, as well as in the political parties and the intervention they have in the electoral field in terms of the dynamisation and mobilization of people to vote. As regards the issues associated with the personal nature of the vote and the need to ensure the genuineness and personality of the vote by correspondence, I also believe that there must be a level of security sufficiently appropriate for us to maintain this democratic regime, with elections that do not, in fact, know very well. It is true that we have an electoral law that is very prescriptive, but irrespective of what progress has been made has allowed us to have always had electoral processes without major convulsions so far. I think this is a value that must be preserved and relevant to the stability of our democracy. Basically, this is what I wanted to say about Mr António Filipe's intervention. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u21	Mr Pedro Morais Soares of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u22	Mr President, Minister for Internal Administration, Mr and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the CDS considers this debate to be premature. At the time we are having this same debate on the elections of the electoral circle in Europe, the same have already been repeated in the past weekend by the determination of the Constitutional Court. In fact, there has already been a face-to-face election in the voting venues, but it is still going through the period of receipt of the postal vote by 23 March. That is to say, we have not yet been able to know what will be the influence that the trickle created in national territory with the vote of our fellow citizens will have on the exercise of the right to vote on the part of these fellow citizens. But we already know today that many voters have not yet received the ballot. Therefore, delays continue to exist, so perhaps it would have been more prudent to postpone another week to give more time. However, these problems are not now, as they have already occurred in the 2019 legislative elections, when the electoral process abroad did not proceed in the best way either. in this electoral act, hundreds of thousands of Portuguese residents abroad were prevented from voting for problems during the electoral process, problems that led to only one third of the Portuguese emigrants having successfully exercised their right to vote, while another third of Portuguese emigrants did not even arrive to receive the ballot and the remaining third had the ballot returned by the post. These were, above all, reasons such as delays in mail distribution or errors in the delivery of correspondence, even with the correct address, which determined that many of the Portuguese had not been able to vote. At the time we are talking about 22, 33 % of null votes in the electoral circles of Europe and outside Europe. at that time, Minister Santos Silva presented several justifications for the voting process abroad failed: since the payment burden had to be in French for the imposition of the Universal Postal Union, even to postal strikes. Either on the expedition there or on the shipment here, everything served as an excuse. But we remember something that Mr. Santos Silva said at the time that it was, and I quote, "all these are technical issues that are easily perfectable", end of quote. The Minister also presented today a set of justifications, which leads us to ask the following: what improvements have been made from 2019 to 2019 to the electoral process abroad? The electoral process abroad, in your opinion — I would like to know, although the Minister has already told us that she did not want to comment on this matter — should she continue to bet on the model of the vote by correspondence? Or do you have the electoral administration—which you are currently presiding over as Minister of Internal Administration—an alternative model in development? In particular, and taking into account the proposals formalised by the Council of the Portuguese Communities in this regard, what is the position of the electoral administration regarding the dematerialization of the electoral books and the decentralised electronic vote? We would also like you to explain to us, Minister, why the electronic vote was no longer considered after the pilot experience that took place in 2019. The Minister also spoke here recently with representatives of foreign affairs and internal administration, who would have the task of analysing the report which characterized the way in which the vote took place for the Assembly of the Republic abroad in October 2019 and proposing amendments and adjustments. So we also ask the following: what conclusions were presented by this working group? What proposals have been made by this working group? I would also like to leave this note: in 2019, the justification presented by the Government was based on the novelty that represented Organic Law No. 3 / 2018 from August 17, which expanded the electoral universe from about 300,000 to 1, 4 million registered voters, thanks to the automatic census of citizens who had lived abroad. The Organic Law No 3 / 2018 caused some electoral "growth pain", and the CDS may even agree that it helped create this state of things, in 2019 and now. [[Meanwhile, Vice President Fernando Negrão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u23	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u24	I'm done now, Mr. President. In fact, at the time, it seems that we were already guessing the confusion that was coming, when we said, and I quote, "for a system that is already beautified, disturbed with some distrust, mistrust, remoteness and indifference, there is nothing worse than introducing more mechanisms of distrust. Any failure, even small ones, can have serious consequences and generate more and more mistrust», which is what happened.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u25	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister and Secretary of State. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your congratulations. Mr Pedro Morais Soares, you have asked me three or four questions, which I would like to answer. First of all, on the issue of this debate, whether it is premature or not, I would say that, strictly speaking, what would make sense is that if we let the electoral process end, then we should make an assessment. In fact, I must say that, as regards the initial vote, which will now be repeated, there is a report made by the electoral administration, explaining all the difficulties that have arisen, in particular those that are associated with the circumstances of people who have not been able to vote or have not been able to vote at present, and that, in most cases, this impossibility had to do with the circumstances of people thinking that voting at any time was possible, therefore, that there was no time limit for them to exercise the right to vote in consulates. Then there were the issues associated with those who did not receive the communications — and, in relation to the non-receiving of communications, I think we could track some 100 000 cases of people who did not receive the communications — and essentially the causes we identified for this were first the case of citizenship cards that were not activated from an electronic point of view. As you know, in the context of the pandemic, a citizenship card model was created in which people receive the citizenship card at home, but then they have to activate their potentials, from an electronic point of view and many people have not done so. On the other hand, the election census closed on December 5, if my memory does not fail. And all those people who, however, have changed their homes — here it is not so common for people to change their homes, but abroad it is much more — from December 5 onwards, they no longer have the address updated and, therefore, the letters were sent to the address we had before and not to the new dwellings. There are also a very large number of people, according to the track we have made, whose communications have reached their homes, but they were not — it is natural, they are working. in this case it was affixed or filed a notice, but the people were not to raise the letters to the mail. There are still, and now I am going back, situations in which the dwellings are incomplete—they are updated, but incomplete—and they have only the indication of the neighborhood or they do not, by chance, have the floor. Therefore, there are a number of situations that we have identified, and obviously we will work to alert our citizens to the need to update these data on the citizen card, and it is certain that today they can already do it for themselves, electronically, through the platform, not even put a bigger complexity problem here. Obviously, in this repetition of the vote, we will have a smaller number of voters. This is the perspective that we have because, indeed, people have made a great effort to participate in a national act, in which they have engaged, and have seen this fat, frustrated effort, and therefore many are uncomfortable, as it is understandable, because they consider that the country has not respected them. So there are a lot of people who are probably not going to vote again. What I can tell you is that until today, compared with the same period of the first voting period, we have less than 43% people to vote and, in the projections that we are likely to make, this number will be 50%. There will certainly be quite fewer people voting around Europe than those 260 000 who voted for the first time. Before referring to the question of voting by correspondence, let me move on to what MAI did next 2019.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u27	Mrs. Minister, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u28	Mr. President, have I outlived my time? Oh, I'm so sorry! Mr President, what I can do is give you this document that I have here with what has been done. I'm sorry. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u29	Thank you very much, Mrs Minister, and as for the fact that you have exceeded time, do not worry because it is a very regular thing that happens in this House. I would like to congratulate the Minister, as well as the honourable Members. State Secretaries, what I should have done recently and have not done. I now give the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, from the PAN, to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, the vote of the Portuguese in the electoral circle of Europe, and also in the world, cannot in fact continue to be despised. We are here to debate about 80 % of the votes that have been cancelled, in fact, means a loss of democracy, it is painful. This debate, in our view, is not hasty, it is indeed late. It is a debate that either this House of the Republic or the Government should have done, so that the law would be changed and people effectively had access to the vote. More: it is a debate that should even go further, because in this case we are talking about the annulment of 80 % of the votes of immigrants, but we have to ask ourselves why 42 % of voters have not exercised their right to vote in the last elections; why do 4 in every 10 young people continue to say that they are not at least interested in politics in their country or what meaning makes people with reduced mobility still unable to vote—they cannot even leave home, nor can they access the voting table itself, which is absolutely incomprehensible in the 21st century. We must also reflect why in these elections one in seven votes is not turned into a mandate. However, all of this is reflections which are not limited to a surgical intervention with regard to foreign votes. As regards the emigrant vote, which is what brings us here, the Minister, in this imbroglio, in fact, only the Constitutional Court has been doing well. In fact, we cannot forget that the informal agreement that occurred between PS, PSD, BE, IL, Free, CDU, Volt and Alliance is manifestly shameful. It makes no sense that there has been this informal agreement which has undermined the exercise of the right to vote on the part of our fellow citizens, those votes which should have been considered if the people had been properly clarified. Mr. Minister, because you may not have noticed, I relive your memory here on a matter. It is that, in the full campaign for the repetition of the electoral act, already after the decision of the Constitutional Court, on television, the announcements that continued to circulate told our fellow citizens to send only the ballot, nothing was said about being accompanied by the citizen's card. So after we made a gross mistake, which hindered the vote of these our fellow citizens, we again fell into the same mistake and the clarifications that were being lent... [[Right now, the Minister of Internal Administration said not with his head.]] Mrs. Minister, don't say that with your head, I advise you to go back to see the announcement you made on TV. I was careful to see and I wouldn't be here saying this if, in fact, it wasn't. Indeed, we cannot disregard the vote of these people. In democracy, all votes count for it to be strengthened. But the problem is clearly not just that: we had people who went to your voting table and could not vote, because although they were in the electoral books, they had not made the previous registration, which Mr. Minister has already given almost as an inevitability of the bureaucracies inherent in the activation of the citizenship card or even of the registers. We had people who wanted to vote by mail, but who did not receive the letter, because the address contained in the citizen card registration was not updated or for other reasons. There were people who wanted to vote by postal and the letter for this purpose did not arrive, until the postal services of the country of residence did not understand the postal register. There were also people who voted by postal vote and their vote was returned, because the postal services of the country of origin also did not know that the burden was paid. Therefore, Mrs Minister, I leave you two very concrete questions. On the one hand, I would like to ask when the revision and amendment of this law, in order to ensure that the issue of copy of the citizen card is overcome, which even deals with data protection issues of the GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation). In view of the fact that what exists today in terms of citizen card validation mechanisms, from an electronic point of view, would already allow us to overcome this.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u31	Mrs. Deputy, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u32	I really am concluding, Mr President. On the other hand, Mrs Minister, there is a whole dimension of voting abroad that needs to be changed. So, then, when do these amendments actually bring people closer to their right to vote, rather than continue to disregard these votes? It would really be very important that this transition, which has to be done, be carried out by the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u33	Mrs. Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u34	Mr. President, I promise now to be disciplined, responding in 3 minutes. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, when is the review of this law? The question should not be addressed to me. In principle, this question must be addressed to Parliament, the next Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u35	To the PS! You have an absolute majority!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u36	Then there was no problem of access to the vote on the question of access to the vote. What gave rise to the situation we have today was not a problem of gaining access to the vote. We can improve the conditions for access to the vote. We can actually move towards improving these conditions, but the problem we have today does not have to do with this, and the great debate that you want to have is a debate which, of course, must take place in this House at the time when you are voting. Ladies and gentlemen, that is how you understand. I would like to draw the attention of the honourable Member to the fact that the abstention has dropped substantially, either inside or outside, against all expectations. Don't forget that we were in the pandemic period—and don't tell me that I'm responsible for the pandemic for everything! — and that this would lead, in principle, to the fact that many people were not even voting. On the contrary, there were many more people who went to vote. As for the announcements, I will check, but what the electoral administration has actually put into advertisements is an information leaflet, which is a package leaflet, in which it is clearly said that the copy of the citizen card should be attached. But if you tell me that you saw announcements that you did not have this information, what I am committed to doing is to check if you did, to strengthen this component on the next occasion. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u37	I now give the floor to Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, we have come to this debate from two undisputed realities. On the one hand, there was a lower electoral participation of migrants, in view of the global numbers of abstention, since there are no objective difficulties, in particular going to vote in polling stations which often range from 200, 300 or more kilometres from the residences of the Portuguese who decided or were forced to work and live away from their homeland. On the other hand, there was an overwhelming desire of Portuguese citizens to participate in national life, which has been expressed in the recent significant increase in the number of voters. That is why my first words are for all the immigrants who have decided to participate in the country's life, voting.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u40	Even in the face of the difficulties they had already faced, which were added to this electoral act the episodes that led to their repetition, moved, in a small number, it is true, to the frontal voting venues or voted by correspondence. But we also leave a word to all those who, having that desire, for some reason, failed to do so. The participation of immigrant communities in national political life, as well as their representation in this Assembly of the Republic, which we consider appropriate, is an invaluable value. It is true that the overwhelming majority of decisions taken here affect particularly those who live here. It is true that some emigrants do not think to return or that their lives will refer them to that decision. But it is no less true that every Portuguese who lives abroad is an ambassador of our language, of our culture, of our customs and traditions and that each one has close or closer relations with Portugal. That is why they are given — and well! — the right to decide. How, then, to ensure two essential elements in an electoral act with special characteristics? First, with regard to the mobilization of the largest number of voters, in accordance with the established rules, it is known that the Government has not undertaken the necessary means to disseminate the information and to clarify that there are procedures necessary for the validation of the vote. In fact, we have the idea that the government has not made the necessary efforts to bring to all immigrants the information that there was elections. Here too are the effects of the reduction of representations of Portugal abroad, the closure of embassies and consulates and the reduction of diplomatic staff. The remaining doubts are the following: how will we promote the vote of migrants? What measures does the Government intend to take until the next electoral act for this purpose? Would the Government promote more presenceal voting places abroad, in addition to consulates and embassies? Would you be able to promote greater clarity, either for the face-to-face vote or for the postal vote, so that the problem with the same dimension does not happen? Secondly, on the individuality and the guarantee of the secret nature of the vote, it is central that the vote is exercised, only and only, by the elector himself and ensuring his secret. This in the face vote is easy to guarantee. In distance voting is more difficult. How do we guarantee this individuality? It is in the convergence of these two elements that it is necessary to ensure the right of migrants to vote. That's what the Greens are committed to.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u41	Mrs. Minister, you have the word again to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u42	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Silva, thank you very much for your questions. Basically, the honourable Member says that the government has not made the necessary efforts to reach everyone, and I say that the government has made the necessary efforts to reach everyone. He sent to all citizens who were registered a letter with all the documentation needed to vote. By now, by chance, I have been here seeing the announcement made by the electoral administration concerning the vote and, in the end, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, perhaps it is good to reverberate, because here is the indication of the citizen's card. But, as I said, it was not only done as, at the level of the various consulates and embassies, some actions were made to promote the vote, actions with the communities, in order to alert themselves to the existence of the electoral act, and also to the conditions that were to exercise their right to vote. True, you will tell me that we have 900 000 people who have not voted. Yes, it is true, we have 900 000 people who did not vote, but probably many of them received the letter to vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u43	They're not here!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u44	in the same way that we have here from the point of view of national territory, many people who knew that there was an election and who also decided simply not to exercise their right to vote, or who could not or did not wish, ready! We can't associate one thing immediately with the other. Obviously, the promotion of the right to vote with emigrants must be done by the government, but it must also be done by the parties, by the parliamentary groups, who have an important role both in promoting the electoral act, and obviously in mobilizing citizens to vote, as they do within the country. It raises the question of how to guarantee the individuality of the vote. It is true that the question of the citizenship card is essentially about that right now. And from the experiences that have been made, I do not know any that will allow me at this moment to say that it is possible to move forward with a certain electronic mechanism with full security. The work that has been done was experimental and presented here in Parliament, it was very circumscribed, just had to do with the Council of the Portuguese Communities.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u45	It's the presence!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u46	But you know that in these things technology evolves very quickly, security and confidence levels will surely also increase and I think that it is up to Parliament to use these areas of improvement and greater technological capacity to incorporate, eventually, new forms of authentication, new forms of identity verification. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u47	I now give the floor, to ask questions, Mr Ventura, of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u48	Mr President, Madam Minister, you may try to withdraw the responsibility of the government of this process, but there is a question where we all agree: this was a pity and a shame for Portuguese democracy and the truth is that according to the news we know PS and PSD will have tried to remove the protest they had made at the voting tables when they saw that they were going to lose subsidies and that they would lose numbers of votes in the circle of Europe. That is what came out and the Minister today must confirm to this Parliament whether or not it is true: have Antonio Costa and Rui Rio tried or not to cancel the protest that had been made at the voting tables? This is what people want to know: whether it's worth only when the money is in question or whether, when it doesn't matter anymore, it matters people's vote. But the Minister comes here and says: 'Don't worry, 72 % to 92 % will have received' — Mr Minister, I can also say that between 0 % and 100 % will have received; 'we'll ask' — they're hearing an inquiry 47 years ago. 47 years ago this process has not worked! So, yes, there is government responsibility. And, yes, there is the responsibility of the two major parties in this process, because, in fact, it was they who protested and then stopped protesting or wanted to stop protesting, when the raisins were already made and could no longer turn back. But, Mrs. Minister, I think you should understand your Secretary of State, Dr. Antero Luís. It is because, on 11 March, five days ago, your Secretary of State said the following: "To date, the letters that have been returned do not indicate a reduction in the vote. We admit until a vote can take place near what took place in the first vote and we have the same number of votes. » And the Minister comes here today, and says they're going to vote less than 43 %. Therefore, for God's sake, at least among you, you understand! It is because one says, five days before, that there will be much more votes or equal votes; the Minister says, five days later, that we will have half the vote... I mean, at least one Minister and one Secretary of State must understand on such important matters as this. We're not playing around here, we're not playing around here! Mrs. Minister can't come here and say they're going to vote half of the migrants...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u49	Mr. Deputies, I would like to draw your attention to the time spent.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u50	I will finish, Mr. President. As you said, the Minister cannot say that half of the migrants will be voted on here and, five days ago, her Secretary of State said that she would vote on the same number of people. Let's be serious! And let's tell people how many are going to vote and how many are not going to vote and what we seriously expect. Otherwise, what people think is that PS and PSD, in this matter, are always with the same thing, which is the same interest as the PCP has, which is that the representativeness of the vote of migrants does not increase.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u51	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u52	But if someone thinks it's worth 1 million voters having two Members, then it's because you're not seeing exactly how the accounts are made in terms of representativeness.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u53	So, do you have more or less Members? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u54	Mr. Minister, you have the floor again to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u55	Mr President, Mr André Ventura, said textually "the Minister came here to take responsibility for the government, but the truth is that the PS and PSD" such as... Well, I come here as a member of the Government and the Member, as a Member of the Nation and an illustrious jurist, which is, you know, certainly separate the parties and the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u56	You don't know anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u57	So, in this perspective, I don't see how to put the two together. Then I also said that this process is not new, that we have been in this for 47 years. No, Mr, it is not true that this process has undergone amendments, and very significant changes, especially in recent years. We were talking about working with a universe of people who would, at most, go up to 300 000 and now we are working with 1,500 000 people. This difference, which seems merely quantitative, effectively introduces a qualitative dimension. Then, finally, with regard to the differences which you want to point out between me and the Secretary of State, Mr Member, as you know, these proceedings are dynamic. So there's a day when things have a certain reference, there's a number that's determined...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u58	Half the votes in five days? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u59	Oh, five days make a difference! Mr. Deputy, five days make a difference! Five days make a difference, as you'll calculate. Therefore, five days earlier there could be a trend and this trend, however, has changed. That is exactly what happened and that is why I have also come to this Parliament to give this indication. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u60	You now have the floor to ask questions, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u61	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going back to the cargo. Madam Minister, I have heard you say there, in the pulpit, that at the end of this debate it would be here to recognize the responsibilities of the Government if they had, because I had not seen them so far, giving the essence of the idea that it was all right. But, Madam Minister, it is not all right and, in your own speech and in some of the answers I have heard here, you have again given more reasons to think that it is not all right, starting with — and I will stress this — by the report which indicates the rate of delivery of the ballots in this second edition of the elections and which points to a rate between 72 % and 99 %. These 27 % are not just one, are 260 000 or 270 000 people involved here and may not have received the newsletter. There is a need for rigour in this issue. What is the number and when will it be known exactly which people have received or not? He said that for the 2019 elections, in the same frameworks, the report on the non-delivery of newsletters has already been delivered, has not been discussed, and has given here some information on why the newsletters at the time will not have been received, a problem that will eventually have worsened in this second edition. And the question I want to ask is this: what has been done, from 2019 to 2022, to avoid the reasons that have been identified in the previous report in the meantime? Then, during his intervention, he dropped the mention of the electronic vote in the Council of the Portuguese Communities, without giving any indication whether it was favourable or not. Now, he added a little more, saying that he has doubts about security and believes that technology will evolve, but what is true is that countries much more evolved than ours have already tried to vote and have retreated or abandoned these attempts, so the only hope that, in technological terms, there seems to be that blockchain technology can help find a solution. But right now, migrating to technological systems—and the Liberal Initiative is certainly not suspected of not joining the new technologies—it is something that we are far from being able to consider a safe method. Another aspect that we knew, even last week, on 8th, was that the National Elections Commission...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u62	I would like to draw your attention to the time used, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u63	I shall conclude, Mr President. As I was saying, another aspect that we knew, even last week, was that the National Elections Commission came to give instructions that the votes should be accepted, even if they have post post-March 12 stamp. They are information opposed to what is on the Electoral Portal and to those that have been given before, giving rise to another possible challenge. Why? We don't know, Minister. That is why I tell you that there are government responsibilities and there is much to learn from this process.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u64	Mrs. Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u65	Mr President, Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo, I think it is not enough to say that there are responsibilities of the Government, the demonstration must be made. And you, uh, unfortunately, didn't. He said several things, he spoke of the most avulnerable issues, from the electronic vote to the position I had on the vote or not, to the question of the assessment made on the 2019 report, to the actions that eventually were practiced or not... As I said recently, I did not have time, but here I have the document explaining everything that has been done since 2019, i.e., there has been a process of continuous learning and effective search. And here, I'm being completely genuine. I'm in the Ministry of Internal Administration for an absolutely transitional period, I'm working with people I've never seen before, who didn't know and who did an extraordinary job. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And what it costs me to get here, to Parliament, and for reasons purely political tactics listen to the greatest criticisms of these people. This can't be, sir, it can't be! You've got to stop this! [[IL protests.]] They can make criticisms they want, but try to be fair, try to be minimally objective.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u66	So, is everything okay?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u67	No one said it was okay! No one's ever gonna say it's okay! What I am saying is that, on the basis of my call to this Parliament — and you know what it was — the government is absolutely out, the government has nothing, strictly nothing to do with the reasons that have determined the repetition of the vote in the electoral circle of Europe. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And, therefore, I do not see how you can tell me that I do not take responsibility. It is obvious that I withdraw responsibilities, when I say that there are surely factors to improve, there are elements that can be improved. But with regard to this breach that resulted in the decision of the Constitutional Court, for God's sake, they are settled! The honourable Member has been in the agreements, or someone in your representation, so maybe it's better to talk to each other... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...to assume the responsibilities, instead of being shot at by the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u68	You now have the floor to put your questions, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u69	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, this debate, now that we are approaching the final line, is, above all, an opportunity lost by the PSD, which has required it, to explain to the voters and our emigrants their zigzags and the situation in which the country has placed, to wait almost two months to see an electoral process completed. What we had today, on a day full of dust in the air, is another attempt to put even more dust in the eyes of our emigrants. I think there's enough lack of rigour and lack of ability to look at the problems as they really did. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Let us see: the PSD first agreed not to challenge the decisions that had been taken. It is not a question of changing the law by a meeting at the table, but only the parties say that they will not exercise their right of appeal, in circumstances in which — we all know — it was not possible to change the law in time. There were paths that were in progress, but the Assembly was dissolved, as it is known. After that, the PSD changed ideas, starting the count, questioning what was, in good faith, a commitment made by those who had been present at that same meeting. Then he then protested and claimed at the tables and the general clearance table, but then, and here, as Mr Ventura has already said, he tried to remove the protests he presented. And I make one precision: whoever tried to remove the protests was the PSD, because it was the only one who protested. By the way, don't try to get in the same bag that doesn't get confused: PS and PSD aren't on the same level. Obviously, the Socialist Party could not withdraw complaints, precisely because it had not submitted them. [[Protests by PSD MP José Silvano.]] The PSD on that same night, and this has gone unnoticed... and if you have the opportunity, when you leave, you can tell it to the social media. Explain or not, say or not if it is true that the PSD, an arquitous of morality in this debate, tried to withdraw and leave out of the agenda the protests and claims it had submitted. [[P.S.'s applause.]] After that, again, duality : « we challenge the results in an electoral circle, but in the other no more » ; « we present complaints-crime... » — we are going to question the honorability of the people who are at the tables and who in the Republic should have only one thanks and not the scrupulousness that the PSD has made to them —... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u70	......... and we treat, once again, differently, because, apparently, the placement of votes in a given circumstance is worthy of a complaint-crime and, finally, we remain silent, because we have won the election and, in this case, we are not going to go through what seems to be our morality in defending these results." Above all, this debate, on the part of the parties who have taken it seriously, goes collectively through an apology to the communities who have seen the impossibility of their vote to be counted. And all of us, because we haven't been in time to change the law, so we should. But the humility we have here does not mean that we have not tried to avoid the greatest damage, and the greatest damage was, in fact, that these vows had not been counted. And as far as possible, it was with good faith that all the people who were at the table tried to ensure that all the votes cast were counted. It wasn't possible. We will have a legislature that opens up to correct the aspects that will need to be corrected in the law, but, above all, in today's debate, such an apology and the explanation that was due to the country, about the chaos in which we find ourselves, and which is directly imputable to the Social Democratic Party, should have had a different explanation in this debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u71	You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what has basically been at stake here was a discussion about what is behind this outcome. I just wanted to say that it is unfortunate because, indeed, we had a level of participation here never before, very significant and in a context of great difficulty, and in a certain sense, we have broken the confidence of our fellow citizens in getting the vote to be repeated. It is not my duty to point out responsibilities or to discuss the terms in which the issues were organised between the parties who shared an initial agreement and then, at the subsequent stage, had different understandings. It is only for me to say that it is obvious that the government deeply hurts what has happened, what it has already said in public communication, and it has been worth insults, but indeed the government is hurting what has happened. And the Government believes that this situation could indeed have been avoided if there had been some balance and sense of responsibility and patriotism. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u73	Mr. José Silvano, have you asked for a word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u74	Mr President, it is for the sake of the honor of the bench, because something has been said here by the Socialist Party Member that it is too serious to let it pass.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u75	Mr José Silvano, I gave you the floor at the end of the debate. You now have the floor, to put your questions, Mr José Luís Carneiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in this process of repeating the elections around Europe, if there are those who do not deserve repair are certainly our fellow citizens who have voted and who have voted in numbers in which they have never voted, and have seen their votes cancelled and disregarded. We also do not deserve to be corrected by the conclusions of the Constitutional Court, from the outset because of the respect that supreme court deserves us and then because of the strict legal basis where they were based. The same cannot be said of the PSD, which, without questioning the completeness and will expressed in each of the votes, triggered a widespread suspicion about the process, about the volunteers who participated in it and, inexcusable, about its outcome, reaching the point of presenting complaints against dozens of volunteers who followed the operation of the electoral suffrage. to devalue the reasons that have led many of our compatriots, despite fulfilling their civic duty to vote, not to join the copy of their identification card, either by reason of principle, either to comply with the legislation in force in the countries in which they reside, either by fear of misappropriation of correspondence, with misuse of their data, or by considering them unnecessary, in the face of readings that have been propagated by opinions of the National Elections Commission, although it has considered that they would be null, the PSD has valued the form, but has despised the content and will of thousands of voters. And, considering the extreme seriousness of its action, of two, or the PSD had sufficient reasons to doubt the completeness of each of the votes expressed — each vote is a will — or, not having it, it must be concluded that it acted by pure political calculus.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u77	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u78	The majority party of the opposition cannot ignore the appropriate rules and procedures for claiming decisions taken by the clearing boards, of which representatives of all parties are members, with which it does not agree. These rules are clear and have been in agreement for a long time. Therefore, if he had reason to doubt the authenticity of each of the votes, he should have denounced it in concrete terms and, more importantly, should have cast the evidence of this suspicion. He never did, he never did, and he can't even do it, because he simply doesn't exist. What the PSD did, yes, was to throw on everyone, including, and most importantly, on those who voted, a lip of suspicion, of contempt, revealing their total indifference to the remarkable effort of our communities, who for the first time reached more than 250 000 voters to participate in this electoral act. We know that the situation of lack of copy of the citizenship card is not new. We all knew, including the CNE, and so if you wanted to review the electoral law. The omission of the copy of the identification document, which may be sanctioned as nullity, shall be void only if the declaration of nullity is required in the act by members of the table. It was with this framework that the CNE itself would admit that the identification of the voter by means of the barcode printed in the vote return envelope was sufficient to validate the identification of those who voted, that all parties formed the conviction and agreed not to question the validity of the votes and not to use the right of challenge that would assist them in decisions that the tables, always sovereign in the decisions of the electoral procedure, would take. The PSD took part in this agreement and incorporated this consensus until someone, somewhere, decided that it would not be so and that they would begin to challenge the deliberations of the tables that would consider those votes valid. That decision was already taken on the day of counting and — no doubt! — despite its great attachment to legality, the PSD only challenged the elections of Europe's tables, where it lost, and agreed with what it now considers illegal at the tables of the rest of the world, where it gained more votes and won the elections. It was not only the irresponsibility that was evident in the PSD back-face, it was also the scandalous duality of criteria, coupled with enormous insensitivity and disregard by the voters of the European circle. Why did the PSD contradict the joint understanding of all competing parties, including the PSD itself? Why has the PSD not also challenged the voting of the circle outside Europe? Why the duality of positions? Whatever the answer, there was duality in behaviour, when taking an agreement and, at the time, acting in the opposite direction. All of this could have been avoided because the PSD has a response to the reasons why many voters do not join the copy of the identification document. They are known to all. This is not about people not wanting to work to join the copy of the citizen's card, but about real difficulties and legitimate doubts that go beyond the imagination of those who send by mail a copy of an identification document. You know, the PSD, at least — if not, should know — what do many of our migrants think? Do you know — if not, should you know — the conditions under which they exercise their right to vote? Take care that you want to know and know, instead of thinking about them only in the electoral acts. I would know, for example, that many are afraid to be identified in their way of voting, if they join the copy of the citizen's card. I would know that many understand that the same is not legitimately required. I would know that many people do not have the conditions, because lives are hard, to make copies of them or that many live in countries where this practice has degrees of censorship and even legal impediment. All of this the PSD knows or could know, if you take care to know, but we think you know. on our side, on the side of the Socialist Party, although other than the success, there is again the request for an apology already made by the Prime Minister and the commitment of total commitment to legal solutions that prevent the repetition of this disregard of thousands of votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u79	I would like to draw your attention to the time available, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u80	I will finish, Mr. President. On behalf of the interests of the country, we appeal to the responsibility of all parties in the future reception, discharge and validation of the electoral act to serve the national community, which is here, but is also abroad. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u81	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I have nothing to add to the statements that have just been made by Mr José Luís Carneiro. I would just like to make a statement, a statement that ultimately wishes to say the following: this debate was an excellent opportunity for the Government to explain, as a living speaker, what was done by the electoral administration in order to make this act not only as involved as possible, but also as mobilised as possible. As I said, in my initial statement, not everything we do runs well, sometimes things actually go wrong. I used to act, I used to guess, to err, to admit error and to correct it. over the time that this debate has lasted, and there is already 1 hour and 40 minutes, it has not actually been identified any fact, no situation that could have been in the genesis of the current situation of semi-paralysis of the institutions of the legislative and executive power in which we find ourselves. The failure has not been identified, the omission causing this result has not been identified, which the government has already publicly hurt and which we all certainly deplore. To claim to hold the government or the electoral administration accountable for this state of affairs is not only unfair, as politically wrong. It is deeply unfair, because it is not based on facts, and it is politically wrong, because it opens a gap that exposes a genuine self-phagical pulse. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now in the process of repeating the vote of the citizens of the circle of Europe, as everyone knows. And what I leave here, in order to finish, is a call for common sense, an appeal for possible consensus, and consistent consensus, in the sense of decisions that are taken politically, in the context of this election, respect the efforts of the Portuguese and Portuguese who have come again to repeat their vote, thus reconciling themselves with the manifest disregard that the act of annulment of this election has already represented for these national citizens. I leave this appeal to you, with the expectation and confidence that the political parties with parliamentary representation and the coalitions formed for this electoral act will have the sense of responsibility to find solutions that result in a new impasse in this electoral process. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u83	Mr José Silvano, from the PSD, now has the floor to defend the honor of the bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u84	Mr President, I invoke the defence of honour, because Mr Delgado Alves here made the claim that the PSD tried to remove the challenge he would have posed at the voting tables. As this issue is sensitive and may even have some party importance, which I know, in terms of PSD, what was stated here is not true. But you can complete this information, if you want, by asking the leaders of your party to explain half that situation to you. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u85	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u86	You now have the floor to reply, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u87	Mr. President, it is not to respond, it is to provide further clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u88	It depends on the understanding given to the word « reply». Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u89	Mr President, citing news from Renascença Radio of 10 February 2022, « it is early in the morning that the Social-Democrat delegation will appear to have retreated and, at the general clearance table, tried to withdraw the protest but would no longer have gone in time since the tops of the dozens of voting tables were already closed. Do not keep on seeking. ” There will be evidence of these facts and, curiously, the subsequent behaviour of the PSD is particularly conclusive, because if it was convinced of legality, it would certainly have challenged the electoral outcome outside Europe. Therefore, it is perfectly compatible, and conclusively, not only not only not having challenged the electoral outcome in which the circumstances were exactly the same, as having tried to remove the protests, that it repented, when it realized the consequences or reputations for the electoral process, either for the communities whose votes were not counted, or even for the quality of democracy and for the need for the start of functions of the Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u90	After this debate has been concluded, I would like to congratulate the Minister for Internal Administration and the Members. State Secretarys of State, and we now turn to the second point of our agenda, which is that of the votes. We therefore have for the vote an opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, which Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha will read.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u91	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Braga, Central Court Cable of Braga — Judge 1, Case No 2119 / 19.5T8BRG, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Hugo Pires ( PS ) to give written testimony as a witness within the scope of those cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-16.u92	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall now take note of the agenda for the meeting of the Standing Committee which will take place on 22 March at 3 p.m. but, firstly, I inform you that on that day, at 11 a.m., there will be a Conference of Leaders. The agenda has as a single point the preparatory debate of the European Council, to be held on 24 and 25 March, with the participation of the Prime Minister under Article 4(1) ( a ). the Law on the Monitoring, Evaluation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Union construction process. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we can close our work. Thank you very much and good afternoon. [[It was 16 hours and 49 minutes.]]
