ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a position to begin our work. The session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the galleries to the public. Thank you very much. For the reading of the dossier, you have the floor of Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all. I will announce that they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr. President, Bills No. 376 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission, 407 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 12. the Commission, and 408 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission. It's just, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u3	Thank you very much. The agenda for today was set by the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, with the theme « Security forces and their careers, racism and persecution by the political power in Portugal », and will be discussed the following bills, in general, and draft resolutions: Bills Nos. 23 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Crime of incitement to hate against members of criminal police and judicial bodies, 35 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Increases to €450 the fixed component of the service supplement and risk in the security forces taken by the Republican National Guard military and police officers, 255 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Application of the summary process to the trial of resistance crimes and coercion against civil servants, 379 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — First amendment to Law No 95 / 2021 of 29 December with a view to regulating the characteristics and standards of placement, activation, signalling and use of portable cameras by the security forces, and the form of transmission, storage and access to the collected data, and 397 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Right to party affiliation of security force agents other than military or militarized agents of the effective standing frameworks and Resolution Projects Nos 315 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Recommends that the Government ensure more proximity policing and 316 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Recommends that the Government improve the data contained in the Annual Internal Security Report. I must recall that the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival has exercised its right to request votes immediately after the debate, so that we will have votes at today's sitting with the competent quorum verification. To present the draft laws of the Arrival, Mr André Ventura has the floor. I call for silence in the House so that we can hear the speaker. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The theme set by the coming to this agenda today has to do with something I think everyone will understand and that the whole country will understand. It is persecution never before seen in Portugal to our authority and security forces. Today, either by the political power installed, or by the political elites, a large part of the country and these elites see the police as racists, abusive of their strength, extremists or able to use the order disproportionately and in their profit. These same men and women who have given their lives to protect us, who have given their lives for our safety, are the ones who are most attacked in the democracy we have today. It is still curious that, for years and decades, the infiltration of elements of the PCP, the Left Block and the Socialist Party in trade unions, trade union confederations and in various professional segments—of teachers, doctors, police and all other segments of the operation and industry—have never led to a single report in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u6	But it was the possible presence or allocation of police elements to the convictions of the party that led to this endless persecution. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear: it is neither transparency nor law nor constitution. This is the greatest political persecution for a professional group in Portugal after 25 April. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The police, men and women, who have chosen their lives to guarantee our security, all of them, are men and women like us, with dreams, with ambitions, with rights and political perspectives. It has never been seen, as it is seen today, an attempt to tighten up, limit, humiliate and mirror the political rights of the security forces. Therefore, for the first time since 25 April 1974, the arrival brings to this House a proposal aimed at restoring the political rights of the police. Mr President, if teachers can vote, be militant and choose their political life, if doctors can choose their political life, if journalists can choose their political life and if we even have some union presidents of journalists who become Members, then how can police not have political rights in Portugal? How? [[Congrats from the CH.]] Now we may well understand why certain criticisms and notes from the Journalists' Union are there to police presence and possible infiltration of forces from the Arrival. Now we're beginning to realize everything and the powerful machine they've set up since April 25 to cancel the cops and their forces. Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are doing to our security forces is the biggest betrayal to a professional group since 25 April. It is to tell them that they are not men and women like us, to tell them that they do not have the same rights as us, that they cannot have preference or choice, that they are slaves of the system and that they cannot be anything but mere objects. I would like to say here and to the country that, in the constitutional review, in which we are participating and to which we have begun in this Parliament, the arrival will propose that police be part of all political parties, like all forces in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, a police officer has a base salary of 809, 13 € — repeat, 809, 13 €. They are men and women who put the burden on us to defend us and earn 809, 13 €. In some supermarkets you get more. In some supermarket boxes the whole country pays better than our cops. That's what we should keep in mind. How did we let this happen? Over the past 20 years, police salaries have frozen, as well as their careers, but we ask them to surrender their lives for us. Over the past 20 years, police have lost purchasing power, just like everyone else, but more because they haven't seen their salaries updated—and we ask them to give their life for us, for our safety and for our families. Over the past 20 years, these men have lost more than 35% of their purchasing power, but we have asked them to safeguard these facilities of Parliament. We ask them to secure their institutions and sovereignty, we ask them to defend our families from external attacks, we ask them to free our streets from bandits, but we give them €809 per month. That's what we should think before we attack any professional group of men and women who surrender their lives for us every day. Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, 160 police have put an end to life in the last 20 years— 160! Soon our tribute to all of them since this House. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It was 160 who put an end to life in the last 20 years— 160! It's a number we should remember and we should all be ashamed. Six times a day, on average, a policeman is assaulted — I repeat, six times a day. It was these numbers that we should take into account before they fill the communication narratives by saying that the police are racist, that there is police abuse and that we live in a country where the police do what they want, when men and women take their lives because they can no longer, because they don't see any more light at the bottom of the tunnel, because their lives have become in a misery unable to cope with the human misery that they are surrounded, in flooded teams and they with boots and with all the equipment that they have tried to do for us something. We realize we've all failed these cops, but some of us have failed the most. The system that governed the country between PS and PSD for 47 years left the police completely orphaned and without any support. They asked them to defend our homes, our lands, our families, and this Parliament. But they did not give them anything in return, nor did they give them the dignity they needed. When there is only one case — one case! — we make this a sandstorm, saying that the police are the world's biggest racists and that this has to fight. But when a police officer commits suicide, no one comes to the land asking for justice and dignity. It is the greatest shame since 25 April 1974. Men and women of burden, those who still hold the constitutional order we have today, are the first to be attacked by this constitutional order. And that should embarrass us all. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what we bring here today is very simple to understand. It is to restore the dignity of the police function, restore the dignity of those who fight for us and give life for our safety. Some, as always, will look to the side, say that they are making a sanitary cord and that they are proud of this. Others, by the hand with whom they command, will say that it is not the time yet, it is not the time, and it will be when God wills, or never. Others, because they are liberal or communist, will say that the police cannot abuse their authority and that they must contain the abusive exercise of the police force. Unfortunately, we will only have part of the country to recognize the incredible and irreplaceable work of these men and women. Yes, we want them to be fulfilling citizens, we want them to comply with the law and the Constitution, but we also want the law and the Constitution to recognize them as what they are: the true heroes of this country. It's the heroes that we, in arriving, are very proud to have and represent, say the social communication and say the PS whatever you want. They're our heroes! We will fight for them and continue to fight for them until the end! [[Ch's applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u7	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. To formulate it, you have the floor of Mrs Ofélia Ramos, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u8	I am sorry, Mr President, but not by that order. First there will be an intervention by Mr Joaquim Pinto Moreira, following Mrs Mónica Quintela, then I again Mrs Mónica Quintela and in the end will make an intervention by Mr André Coelho Lima.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u9	Thank you very much for the clarification, Mrs. in this case, Mr André Ventura has no request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u10	It's a sign you've got it all figured out!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u11	For the presentation of draft resolutions of the Liberal Initiative, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Police are one of the guarantors of the smooth functioning of the democratic rule of law and are our first line of appeal, protection and defence as citizens and society. It is these men and women who, through their duties, personify the feeling of duty and public service in maintaining security and order, often endangering their own lives to protect our lives. It should be believed that a service as nuclear and essential to the proper functioning of the State, such as the security forces and services, deserves special attention and care from the Government and political parties. But no! instead, these professionals are constantly neglected. And they are neglected because there is no investment and there are no reforms. over the years, what has been changed or added was only remedies, things that have not reformed at the moment, because only with the implementation of reforms, would there be concrete solutions that would give the security forces professionals the stability they need and deserve. The worst thing is that there is not even a desire to reform. The Government does not have any reformist momentum, although there is currently apparent governmental stability imposed by the absolute majority that, if there were any will, would allow the implementation of reforms. But this absolute majority is unable to move forward with any substantial reform or even implement the already announced reformulation of the Foreign and Border Service ( SEF ). Months have passed and the creation of the Portuguese Agency for Migration and Asylum continues without leaving the role. Months have passed and the PSP ( Public Security Police ) and the GNR ( Republican National Guard) continue to wonder when they will begin to perform their new skills or exactly what their new skills will be. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this government is risking to remain in the history of democracy as the most inoperative, less reformist and more conformed absolute majority than there will be memory. [[Applause from the IL.]] This Government is not known to any measure capable of changing the ageing paradigm of police forces that brings stability to professionals or ensures the long-term sustainability of the two largest police officers. As if all of this were not sufficiently motivating, there are still some political actors who use security forces and services as a political weapon. On the other hand, police are accused of systemic racism, in an attempt to take the whole side, generalizing cases which, fortunately, do not correspond to the behavior of most members of the security forces. on the other hand, there are those who argue that nothing about police should be questioned or polled, saving no effort to immediately whiten less dignified conduct, deresponsibility, victimizing and infantilizing these professionals, which in no way prides or represents the police forces. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u13	Security officers who carry their burden with pride of what they represent — and represent the safety of everyone, regardless of the colour of their skin, their socio-economic origin or their sexual orientation — are ashamed that the defence of their working conditions is constantly linked to a defense of discriminatory behaviour that does not represent the solutions they need. It is this sterile instrumentalization and polarization that nothing good generates or creates. In fact, it only creates noise and distracts us from what is truly important. There is a lack of opportunities for the necessary reforms that benefit not only the human resources of the security forces, but also all citizens and contributors of this country. The Liberal Initiative defends the security forces and defends this noble and dignified function in a serious way, without resorting to demagogy, populism or political exploitation. The Liberal Initiative seeks a serious and objective, reasoned and rational debate based on concrete data, which is not lost in comments, apart from or under-the-counter debates. We believe that any legislative or executive measure to be adopted cannot arise from demagogic debates which do not even take account of their budgetary impacts or the practical effects of the measures. That is why we are presenting the draft resolutions that we have brought today for discussion. in one of the projects we propose that the Annual Report on Internal Security (RASI) contain more data that can reflect the reality of the relationship between police and citizens, giving this document greater legitimacy to support the various policies that are being adopted in this area. The RASI, which characterizes the annual picture of internal security, should include not only data on the operation of the security forces themselves in the performance of their functions, but also data on the conduct of citizens towards the security forces. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u14	The objective analysis of this information will enable us to obtain a true notion of the facts and of what are really the cases of aggression to security forces or unlawful and disproportionate aggression by security forces. We have no doubt that the adoption and implementation of this recommendation will bring objectivity and make it more difficult to use this matter politically by any party force. We believe that RASI should contain a faithful and reliable portrayal of data on aggressions to elements of security forces, data on the number of disciplinary processes related to aggressions by security forces where there has been disproportionate use of force and data on practices of discrimination or incitement to hate or violence by elements of security forces. It is the duty of the State to promote transparency and to ensure that this House and the Portuguese have this information in order to prevent the fates of reality that can be harmful to all and that they can call into question the credibility of our security forces and services. On the other hand, we believe that it is also the duty of the State to ensure that police forces operate in their maximum capacity, being permanently operational and ready to intervene, and that they have the necessary resources to enable them, in fact, to act in case of need. That is why we asked the Ministry of Internal Administration to access the document delivered by the National Directorate of the PSP, which has proposed a reorganization of the current teams. It is important to understand what the Government thinks of this proposal from the National Directorate of the PSP and is intended to adopt some of the suggestions that are presented in this document. The reorganization of the teams is even more relevant when the Portuguese State is unable to ensure the minimum conditions of operation and health in most of the existing teams. The concentration of services, in line with what is happening in other European countries, can bring scale gains to all those involved. Starting with better conditions for our police, there will be a better allocation of public resources, which can be translated into more police on the street and thus a closer and speedy response to people's needs. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u15	Yes, sir. Members, it is mainly on the streets that police should exist: Portugal has one of the largest European police ratios per 100 000 inhabitants if they cannot do their job later, either because they are in administrative work, or because they are busy keeping teams open. The Liberal Initiative will always be available for a discussion that brings more efficiency to the Public Administration and improves the service provided by the police forces. We will always be available for a debate that has as its starting point the security of the Portuguese and that never deviates from respect for our security forces. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u16	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. To express it, I give the floor to Mr Pedro dos Santos Frazão of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u17	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz, in fact, what the Liberal Initiative brings us today is more than that. They are great visions, they proclaim to have great intellectuals, but then they bring small measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u18	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u19	The arrival brings five bills and the Liberal Initiative brings two draft resolutions. However, it is always better to bring anything than to do like the PSD, that nothing brings us, or like the left, that nothing has to say about this debate. Mrs. Patrícia Gilvaz, the title of the draft resolution that brings us about proximity police even seems to be more or less composed, but when we read your draft resolution, what it says is that they ask the Government for a number of measures, among which - imagine! — the reduction in the number of teams. Mrs. Deputy, explain to us there how can you defend more proximity police by closing teams? If you want more data, what you should do is read academic studies. I give the following example: an academic study conducted by the Higher Institute of Police Sciences and Internal Security made a comparison between the New Avenues and the Sand. The New Avenue area has no squadron, but it has 226 police officers per 100,000 inhabitants. Already the Areeiro has 12. the Squad and 140 police per 100,000 inhabitants. What were the conclusions? In the New Avenues there were 1853 crimes, while in the Areeiro there were 959, i.e. almost twice as many of the crimes in the parish where there is no squad, Mrs. If this is the case in the cities, imagine what it is in the large territories, Mrs. Look, in Santarém, the third largest district of the country, what we heard asking, in all 21 municipalities, is more teams and is teams close to people. Mrs. Member, go inside, go to the rural world. I challenge any Member to go to the rural world to ask people if they want open teams or if they want closed teams. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u20	As for the draft resolution in which Mrs Deputy calls for the improvement of RASI data, she is completely reading the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u21	Just like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u22	In fact, the Liberal Initiative is like the Left Block, but with a credit card in your pocket! [[Congrats from the CH.]] He speaks of violence, discrimination, incitement to hatred and violence within the security forces. Mrs Deputy, the violence described by the consortium of journalists in the Left Block corresponds to 1, 4 % of the 40 000 police officers, so it is completely insane, completely marginal. The honourable Member should have been concerned, yes, with the six policemen assaulted per day, with depression, suicides, frustrations, mental health and frozen wages for more than 10 years. So the question I leave you with is, why are you explaining to us why you're playing the Left Block and the Far Left and not defending the police instead of defending the mellinants? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u23	In reply, Mrs. Patrícia Gilvaz of the IL has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u24	Mr President, Mr. Pedro Frazão, I know that the arrival is in constant competitiveness of the metric tape to see who else laws but to produce diplomas like yours, which have technical failures, not obliged! On the issue that has raised us about the teams and the proximity police, Mr President, a large number of teams does not necessarily mean a great deal of quality in the working conditions that are provided. The honourable Member mentioned a study, but I would also advise him to read a study that says that there is not necessarily better working conditions or better police because of the number of teams and that there are not because there are teams that have less crime among them. Of course, you also have not read our draft resolution carefully either, because it necessarily provides for exceptions when there is a high danger, depending on the territory. Therefore, I advise you to read the diploma again and I advise you also to read the studies I have cited. In addition, he spoke about RASI and the data contained in it. Are you worried about police assaults? So are we. That is why we believe that RASI should include a set of data so that, as I said in the initial intervention, concrete measures can be taken that take into account the objective and true reality of these facts. Therefore, Mr President, I beg you to come with demagogy over the Liberal Initiative, because the Liberal Initiative is not going against political exploitation, something your party has done in recent times. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u25	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Joaquim Pinto Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the security forces face several chronic problems in our country, none of them foreign to this Parliament. There are shortcomings in recruitment, due to lack of attractive careers. There is shortage and degradation of means, such as lack of cars, obsolete equipment or precarious infrastructure. There are difficulties coordinating the operational effect, due to the increasing weight of administrative tasks. Salaries are of course a relevant factor in this context, and the announced increase in entry positions is not only attractive enough as creating career distortions, eliminating the principle of remuneration progression. All of this generates discontent, discouragement and discouragement in the police forces. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what does our government do in the face of difficulties? It responds to successes and advances. Always resort to the same trick, launching a gentle indicator that sweeps or disguises the background problem under the carpet. in this particular, the argument is to say that we are from the safest countries in the world, that security issues are not something that arises in Portugal and that, if we make a lot of effort, we will even realize that there is no serious issue to solve. But the government and the majority who support it in this House do worse. Not only do they cover the problems that exist, as they prevent the solutions presented by the opposition from being considered. That was when the PSD Parliamentary Group's proposal to recover the electoral mechanisms to the Law on Infrastructure Programming and Security Services and Forces Equipment, and we know of the worst history of its implementation in recent years. This was when they refused the proposal for the global review of GNR and PSP careers. This happened again when they voted against the pay supplements for pregnant, puerperal and lactating professionals. Three solutions, a full of leaders of the Socialist Party! In view of these facts, the PSD cannot reach any other conclusion than that the socialist majority in this Chamber devalues the existence of fundamental problems in the security forces; it confuses the Portuguese and diverts the discussion; it objectively prevents the valorization of a fundamental pillar of the rule of law, guarantees social peace, public order and enforcement. Moreover, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it was not the example of the authorities' contribution to supporting security forces and the reality would certainly be worse than what exists. It is the local power that has replaced the central State in the provision of means, providing cars, equipment and infrastructure that enable PSP and GNR to operate on the ground and fully perform their functions. This role is essential to ensure the public security service to communities, but also to reduce conflicts and social tensions, reduce juvenile delinquency, prevent or eliminate factors leading to crime. Authorities and police forces deserved a more facilitating and less managerial government, more diligent and less paternal, more assertive and less bureaucratic. One last word for cases that have come to the public about possible hate crimes and xenophobic and racist behaviors in police forces. As it could not fail to be, in a responsible party like the PSD, our position is to separate the wheat from the juicy and defend the application of the law without contemplation. The moral authority of our security forces can never be baffled by episodes of this nature and gravity. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u27	The Bureau shall record an application for clarification. To formulate it, I give the floor to Mr. André Ventura, from arrive.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your intervention in this area, but you can not fail to note and note that there is a change in the PSD approach to this problem. When, in several demonstrations that we had in Portugal over the past three years, the police went out on the street asking them to defend themselves in this chamber of the epithet to be accused of racists or extremists, the PSD remained silent.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u29	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u30	Therefore, it is good that the PSD now comes to the ground to justify itself on that. But that is not all I wanted to talk to you about, Mr President. It was during the PSD Government that the PSP had the most minimalist budget of its history and I ask you if you look at it. It is from the PSD the most minimalist budget in the history of the PSP, as well as the increase in age for pre-retirement from 55 to 59 years. So, honourable Member, it was important that today the PSD, in addition to saying that it is next to the security forces, now that it is opposed, would undertake to respond to the following: whether or not it agrees with the reduction in the pre-appointment age of the police?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u32	Do you or do you not agree? This is a question that needs an answer from either « yes» or « no ». Are you or are you not in agreement with the risk supplement of 450 €? This is a question of 'yes' or 'no' and it is not rhetorical. Will the PSD agree with the increase in this supplement?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u34	Is the PSD, contrary to what you voted in the State Budget this year, in favour of the travel and insularity allowance of the security forces, particularly in the autonomous regions of the country? It is not enough to speak, Mr President, to be on the side of the security forces when they call for action and, indeed, we need measures to do so. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u35	To reply, Mr Pinto Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u36	Mr President, I am very grateful, of course, for the questions and comments that have been made by Mr André Ventura. Certainly Mr. André Ventura knows the recent history of this country and the absolutely regrettable state as the PSD inherited it in 2011 after a financial rescue to which the country was subject. Therefore, it will certainly understand that between 2011 and 2015 the PSD could not fulfil its electoral programme and, of course, had to overcome the financial weaknesses of the State. Consequently, in the implementation of your electoral programme, it certainly was not as far as it could have gone at that time. But I must say that you know this very well, because at that time Mr Ventura was a militant of the Social Democratic Party and, therefore, I would certainly follow this reasoning that I have just explained. [[PSD applause.]] Moreover, Mr. André Ventura, the Social Democratic Party has always been and will always be available to improve the remuneration status, socio-professional status and the dignity of our security forces. We'll always be next to our security forces,
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u37	Then vote in favour!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u38	... being that we will never, under any circumstances, be next to xenophobic, racist policies. [[PSD applause.]] [[CH protests.]] I must tell you that we will not, under any circumstances, have any kind of contemplation. The law is to comply and, as I said recently, we have to separate the wheat from the juicy. Fortunately, we have police and security forces of excellence. Those who do not meet these requirements of excellence must, of course, be punished. Finally, I want to tell you that the Social Democratic Party, in implementing its programmes, has always agreed, because this is its genetic code, by humanist, interclassist and universalist values. These values have always guided our political conduct because, above all, there is the dignity of the human person. And it's exactly this world that separates us. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u39	Are you going to vote in favour or not?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u40	For an intervention on behalf of the NAP, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At a time when we have teachers expressing themselves and on strike for their rights, the arrival brings us another political number. [[CH's laughs.]] It brings us a political number because it is forgotten that police forces are one of the guarantors of the rule of law and that they must respect the rights, freedoms and guarantees, but also the Constitution and constitutional standards, including Article 275. the, which, for example, safeguards that militarized forces must be owned and which represent the people alone and exclusively. That is, arriving brings us an attempt to make the police and the militarized forces into an armed arm. In addition, the arrival speaks of discrimination, incitement to hatred or political persecution against members of criminal police and judicial bodies. This is as absurd as talking about incitement to hate white man by feminism or discrimination of white man by racialized people. It's completely absurd!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u42	What about the dolphins? What about sharks?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u43	at a time when we have cases that give notice, and that must be investigated, of acts of racism and violence within the police forces, acts these reported by the police themselves, the Arrival, instead of being by those who courageously denounced these acts within their own structures, brings us this number. We cannot forget those who do not see what has been the problem of racism in the police lately and which is not today. To say that there is racism and xenophobia in the police is to say that there are disciplinary measures that must be put in place. It is not to take everything on the other hand, and even less the guarantee of impartiality should not call into question the serious debate that must be done about the rights of men and women who make up the police forces. As for political numbers that want to turn police forces into armed arms by political forces, the NAP will never be able to follow.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u44	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We know why it was and how this debate began. A consortium of journalists exposed a set of racist, xenophobic, homophobic or macho comments allegedly made by elements of the security forces. Instead of condemning these behaviors that undermine the dignity and credibility of security forces and services, he preferred to condemn the journalistic investigation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u46	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u47	Since various threats, I appeal to violence, stigmatization and prejudice, the alleged comments of some 600 elements of forces and security services have shown a huge disregard for the law, the Constitution and the burdens they bear. But the arrival, instead of condemning these behaviors that tarnish the dignity and credibility of security forces and services, says it is a persecution of an elite that has led to vasculcate social media groups. It was a set of full police, complete,... [[CH's laughs.]] ...that respect their burden and the dignity of the security forces, who have denounced racist, xenophobic, homophobic or macho behaviors of whom they should never bear that burden.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u48	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u49	The arrival, instead of valuing the integrity of these professionals, prefers to defend those who undermine the dignity and credibility of the security forces. Instead of valuing who deserves to be a cop or guard, the arrival marked this debate to defend conduct, opinions and pathways from whom should never be an element of force or security service.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u50	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u51	Say here, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, those agents who have sworn to serve the country and honor their burden they came here to defend who is staining it. They say that instead of putting themselves next to those who bring dignity and credibility to security forces and services, they prefer to put themselves next to 1 6 % than ever should never wear a burden. Today, Mr. André Ventura, the question in the news was: "Who committed a serious crime should or should not continue in the security forces and services? And it would be expected, as soon as this debate opened, a position on the concrete damage to the image of security forces in the maintenance of their body of elements that were condemned for serious crimes. But what did he tell us? What did Mr André Ventura tell us? They didn't say anything, and here they can't pass without taking a stand. What's the point of arriving? Can security officers who are convicted of serious crimes remain at the service of these forces? Oh, my God! It is that those who defend the dignity and credibility of security services and forces can only have one position. Those who respect these men and women who wear a burden can only have one opinion. All these agents and guards—who couldn't be if when they applied for the PSP or GNR contest were registered with serious crime—we can only give a certainty. The Left Block gives this certainty: we want to protect the security forces of these situations. What about Enough? Don't tell us anything. To respect security forces and services, those who commit crimes cannot use a burden. What does it say? What did you start by saying here? He swung to the side, refused to take a position. It prefers to condemn the integrity of those who report crimes rather than attack criminals, and that is the choice of those who do not respect the services and security forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u52	Don't! It's you! You're criminals!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u53	But it's the mask that falls to the finish. No, Mr. André Ventura, it wasn't the cops who went out on the street to manifest themselves, saying they weren't racist. It's another abuse he's getting on the cops. Who went out on the street, because he stuck that rug, it was enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u54	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u55	And it was another attempt to instrumentalize the security forces here. But it wasn't the only one. It is that, after this instrumentalization, he came to talk about the pay conditions and the lack of quality of life of the police, putting himself next to the one who missed the burden. The Left Block proposed better wages, better working conditions and medical and psychological follow-up for security forces professionals. We have done so in the recent budgetary debate, and have voted alongside all the proposals in this regard. However, those who use these themes to divert attention from their obligations associated with a burden are failing to respect all professionals. Let's go, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen of arriving, have the courage to tell these professionals that they do not find excuses for wearing their burden, that you are making excuses to those who wear a burden for improper conduct. Say that! Tell that to those who make so many sacrifices to choose a life that is difficult, but that is their dream life.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u56	Then respect them!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u57	Tell these agents and guards that, despite the sacrifices they make, they know the responsibility of the burden they wear and feel excited about who stains them.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u58	For you!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u59	We know how this debate was born; we know that the rhetoric that has been associated does not represent the vast majority of security forces professionals, who take seriously the oath you made; and we also know how they feel uncomfortable, when the Arrival is the party of whom should never have used a burden. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u60	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. To formulate it, you have the floor of Mrs. Isabel Moreira of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, I would like to know if you are accompanying me on some points in this regard.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u62	Come with me, of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u63	Whenever there is a relevant news that obligates the discussion of the topic that is underlying here, some seem to realize that the topic is new. Start everything as if it were one day. If the issue is racism within the security forces, it is important to do in particular what Mr. Minister of Internal Administration did here: to speak of the Annual Monitoring Report of the Prevention Plan for Discrimination Prevention in Security Forces and Services, which has existed since 2021, and not since 2022, because the problem is before and because the problem has been identified. It is also important to talk about the clearance of responsibilities, about what was done in the training bet, because the problem has been identified. In other words, it seems that, whenever this issue arises, or news—as was this extraordinary work of the consortium of journalists, with the precious help of security forces agents who know what their burden is—the problem appears to be new. Therefore, the speech begins, for some, immediately praising the whole institution,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u64	It has not started now, it has been coming since 2019!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u65	... omitting those elements of the security forces, whose percentage, whatever it is, is brutal, is dangerous and scary for people who know they need security forces to defend their rights, freedoms and guarantees, and there is a huge omission as to what has happened so far. But when the issue is domestic violence, for example, we all underline, without any problem, the brutality of the machismo in Portuguese society... [[CH protests.]] ... and no one deduces that we're claiming that all men are macho. It's an easy thing. No one deduces something like that. We never forget, when we talk about domestic violence, that we are facing a phenomenon, that we are facing a structural problem that is old and that, from time to time, there are very scary news that must call us back to the debate. But we know that the phenomenon is ancient, that it is structural and that it should lead us to think over and over again. However, when the issue is racism within the security forces, for some, the first step is to give rise, as if it were to an explanation, to the potentials offended by passing a minority certificate, of course, to the elements of the security forces. [[P.S.'s applause.]] When they raise their voice, immediately— never in defense of the victims of serious crimes, motivated by hatred, racism, machismo or homophobia—to say 'we are on the police side', they are passing a minor testimony to the police. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They are being paternalists in relation to most of the elements of the security forces, who do not wish to do so. Most of the elements of the security forces wish that there would not be, within them, anyone who actually misses the institution.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u66	The men on that bench must all be macho! They're all machists, there!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u67	It is extraordinary — and I ask Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, if he does not agree with this — that if he continues to discuss these issues with a kind of childish delicacy of the addressees of the speech, as Portugal, a country with a colonial dictatorship of almost 50 years and with the specificity of having made a colonial war in dictatorship, he would have, in a miracle, escaped from the problem of structural and systemic racism. Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, it would have been a miracle! It happened in so many other countries, which did not have colonial war or dictatorship, which did not have such a long dictatorship, but Portugal, by miracle, had escaped the problem of structural racism, the problem of institutional racism and, therefore, had happened this miracle of the institutions, all of them, beginning with the security forces, have escaped inconceivable to a problem that is, yes, systemic and is structural and needed to fight.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u68	What a fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u69	What has happened, therefore, and that is serious, has not happened now, it has happened for years. We cannot face the problem of racism in the security forces only when news comes and to, at each time, speak in a way of novelty, inaugurating the novelty of this form of false praise to the institution, in disrespect, as I said, to most of the elements of the security forces themselves, that dispenses paternalism. Most of the elements of the security forces are not racist, of course, but there is a serious problem of infiltration of the extreme-right racist in the security forces. There are many racialized people who are afraid to go to the station. And why? We know why we have been discussing this in Parliament for a long time. [[CH protests.]] The Moura and Alfragide cave dates from 2015 and the hate speech of the convicted, with suspended penalty, was reported. In 2019, I had the opportunity, as a Member of the Socialist Party, to make an intervention on racism and we talked about racism in the security forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u70	Mrs. Deputy, you've tripled the time you had.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u71	I will now finish, Mr President. We spoke in a report approved unanimously in 1. the Commission on Racism and Xenophobia in Portugal, in all its aspects, and in international reports that took account of the infiltration of the extreme right in the security forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u72	But who's the extreme right? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u73	So what I ask you is this: if today what you want is security forces with parties, it will not be obvious that, if the extreme right knows very well what is within the security forces, what we Democrats have to do on this side is to have the same perception, but to act precisely in the opposite direction? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u74	To reply, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u75	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Moreira, I thank you for your questions and allow me to answer with an image. There are those who look at a fruit basket in which they see a piece of rotten fruit and want to save the rest of the fruit and, therefore, remove that piece of rotten fruit, not to rot the rest of the basket. He's done the opposite. [[CH protests.]] He's waiting for the whole basket to rot, to hit the palms. It is not strange, because I imagine that in the teams, for this country, when, for example, they see rain falling in there, they see cars that don't work and they have all the difficulties we know there are in the day-to-day, the police should think "well, but what I really needed, now, was to be able to sign me up in the Party of Arrival; that is the priority".
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u76	Not on the block, of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u77	It is not, but it is another example of the instrumentation by the arrival of the security forces. [[CH protests.]] For them, the example is not the healthy fruit, the healthy fruit, the example is the rotten fruit. Now we have an opposite position; we must withdraw that rotten fruit from the security forces, in the name of their dignity and in the name of their credibility. Can we do more? We can, either in initial training or in career, even in relation to citizens, but within the security forces themselves. And the fact that IGAI ( General Inspection of Internal Administration ) has remained out of the complaints must bring us some reflection. I think it's work we'll have for the future. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u78	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Internal security matters deserve a serious debate with their feet on the ground. In fact, it is a bad service here, because anyone who hears it gets into the same bag still thinks that all the cops are reflected in those behaviors. That is not true, and we have said it repeatedly. Behaviors that are contrary to democratic order, to the values that PSP and GNR defend, the rule of law and fundamental rights have been made public. This hate speech was made by about 600 elements, that is, there are at least 40,000 who are not called to the noise, who honor the burden they work with and, yes, they do so with bad conditions, feeling the disrespect of inconceivable wages, working hours and hours of gratified to bring a misery home at the end of the month, of teams falling from dust and lack of means.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u80	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u81	Although PS and PSD have joined together to reject the proposals that the CFP has brought to the Budget, on 21st of this month the CFP has marked a debate exactly to discuss seriously the most immediate problems and the underlying problems, which need to be thought and seriously reflected, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. Another issue is those facts that have been reported a few weeks ago, which deserve concern.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u82	Your concern is that we are growing!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u83	And indeed it is very worrying, because it is a considerable number and so the content of those statements demonstrates, that it is the infiltration of retrograde conceptions contrary to the order and order of values of our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u84	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u85	But our greatest concern, which should be shared by all, is that they have not missed warnings and warnings. The government has been perfectly aware of this for years, and it cannot honestly say that it was a novelty. What we understand, of the hearings that have been required, by the PCP and other parties, to the Minister of Internal Administration and IGAI, does not reassure us, quite the contrary. There is a clear question: the Government cannot exempt itself from its responsibilities, from the monitoring of these situations and from taking action on this and other issues.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u86	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u87	We hear "it's all right, the mechanisms exist, we're doing things and so" and, however, things happen.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u88	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u89	in the same way, the fact that there are police officers who did not feel comfortable to resort to the envisaged mechanisms — the Inspectorate-General of the Internal Administration — cannot be ignored either. We don't want to believe that, for one of these cases,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u90	But what case? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u91	... in our country, if you need a consortium of journalists and there are no institutions working.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u92	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u93	Well observed!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u94	Either there are mechanisms in this country or there are no mechanisms! And it is also important to question which measures, in addition to the formations — otherwise, in insufficient numbers — are actually being taken, inside,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u95	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u96	... not only but also in the recruitment process, not only but also in the follow-up of professionals. What work does the government or IGAI do that prevents these situations? It's been a while, ladies. Members, in which IGAI had another position, did not only appear to act in the complaints. IGAI has, and may again, had a role of prevention, of present element and deterrent. And if you don't have the means to do this, you have to, sir. Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u97	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u98	On mental health, this must be a subject, because suicides are not numbers and are not just indicators,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u99	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u100	...are a serious fact. It takes means to monitor professionals, to make effective stress management, the relationship with others, the integration of elements into the security forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u101	I'm serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u102	We had a proposal in the Assembly of the Republic to ensure safety and health at work and more security support psychologists.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u103	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u104	What an end to this proposal, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? It has been rejected by this Parliament! Measures relating to the operational framework, greater rotation of the teams, greater attention of the heads to the emergence of this type of behaviour — all of this has to be done. And no, it is not all done; there are measures to be taken, the government has the mechanisms and it cannot realise that nothing fails.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u105	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u106	Another thing that does not help is that there is no policing of proximity in terms and under the conditions that are currently being practised.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u107	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u108	Police cannot be an element outside the community. That's not your genesis, that's not your nature, and that's not why we have to go.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u109	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u110	They shut down the squads for more cops on the street, now they're gonna put the squads on the board, the cops on the board... when they shut down the squads, they said it was for more cops. Is that what happened?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u111	Where are they? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u112	Nowhere did that happen, it was exactly the opposite!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u113	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u114	And it does not compare the actual Portuguese, as Mr. Minister has done, successively and infallibly, with that of other countries and with the various effectives that these countries have in mind, which multiply the police forces on the street. It is not said, above all, that measures are being taken to value the security forces, when the risk supplement of PSP and GNR is, of course, a quarter of other security services and forces. Let's be serious, but let's be demanding, all of us! Let's all be demanding with the government! The MAI ( Ministry of Internal Administration) has to have a serious and determined look to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u115	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u116	It's just, sirs. Members, the problems of hateful, criminal behaviour, incompatible with their functions, but also socio-professional problems, which certainly do not contribute anything to this matter, have an answer that has to be given, just for that, there is political will. A government that wastes EUR 1, EUR 3 billion in PPPs (public-private partnerships ), a government that puts EUR 3000 million in energy cannot say that it has no money to deal with the problems of its security forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u117	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u118	A government that puts EUR 8 billion in the disease business, without blinking, cannot claim lack of money for its essential functions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u119	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u120	Mrs. Members, the country, the populations, the various communities, the police, the guards, who perform their duties by carrying out the law and rights, deserve much more than that and deserve more than hypocritical words of PS, PSD, Liberal and Arrival Initiative. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u121	The honourable Member has a request for clarification and, to make it clear, I give the floor to Mr André Ventura of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u122	Mr President, Madam Member, I have left the speeches of Mr Pedro Filipe Soares and Mrs Isabel Moreira, because I understand...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u123	You don't want me to answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u124	No, no, you still have time to answer! As I said, I let Mr Pedro Filipe Soares and Mrs Isabel Moreira pass over the speeches, because I understand that they are not the right agents to talk about the police.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u125	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u126	But I recognize in the CFP the work that has been done and that, in the State budget, in fact, it was visible, because it was the only party that made it possible and abstained in all the proposals of the Arrival to improve police effectiveness. So I wanted to question her.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u127	That one now!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u128	The Left Block voted against a number of proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u129	One!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u130	Mr President, if you want me to say that we also like you, we also say that we like you! There's no problem. [[CH's laughs.]] Sir, don't be envious of that.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u131	That's great! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u132	Mrs Deputy, three days ago — and I would ask the CFP to take a position on this, to say which side you want to be, whether you want to be right next to the security forces, or whether you just want to look like you are next to the security forces and give a dance piece with your left-wing comrades, because it is important to realize this—, Miguel Tiago, member, I think, of the Central Committee, which is the maximum organ of the CFP, in a tweet by Minister João Cravinho, about the executions of protesters in Iran, says: "Then and those who were murdered by the PSP and the GNR in Portugal? Have they been tried in a fair trial? » Now, I want to ask the PCP the following: do you see this? But it's not to run to the question, it's really so they can tell me if they see themselves in this. It's that someone compares PSP and GNR to Iran, the Iranian regime and the executions they do there. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u133	Therefore, the CFP cannot say that it is in favour of the police and then have members of the Central Committee who compare the police to the Iranian regime, who executes people. This is the first aspect. I will not waste much time, Mr. Member, with parties we have in this House, whose members and advisors call the police "boss of the cops"... [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u134	...and that's why I won't waste any time on it. [[Congrats from the CH.]] “Boofy’s head” — so said by an adviser to the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u135	Instead of rotten fruit? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u136	But I ask you, Madam Member, if we can accept this language of « we have to see very well whether the police and which police who have the right to enter the police function », but then have on their terrorist party lists condemned by the FP-25 (People's Forces 25 April). [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PCP and BE protests.]] This is a shame! It's a shame! It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u137	He's honored by the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u138	And you guys have bombers there!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u139	The Left Block has 15 years of imprisonment for terrorism, killing babies in Portugal! He killed people! And they say, "Oh, the cops, the cops..." But they have terrorists on their lists! [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u140	It's true, it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u141	What a shame! What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u142	Sign up to tell us that in our face! Don't tell the PCP! They're afraid to hear the answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u143	What a shame! Terrorists! Some of them killed babies and murdered people!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u144	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u145	Sign up to tell us that in our face! They're afraid to hear the answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u146	Mrs. Mariana Mortagua, we'll talk exclusively about that, whenever you want. We'll talk exclusively about it, Mrs. Deputies!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u147	They're afraid to hear the answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u148	Mrs Alma Rivera, I ask you whether the PCP looks at Isabel Moreira's speech, saying that there is structural and systemic racism in Portugal and, above all, whether this is the fault of the colonial war and the Portuguese past.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u149	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u150	The PS today did what Antonio Costa never dared to do: to say that these men who defend us, who are all defending us throughout the country, are racists, and are racists for one thing. Do you know what it is? It's our colonial war.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u151	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u152	It was the 13 years of colonial war that made Portugal a racist country... [[PS protests.]] Madam Member, I will remind you of one thing: there are thousands of ex-combatants, thousands of ex-combatants, who integrate our security forces or who integrated them when they came from Africa! Those who fought for the country that we are today,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u153	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u154	... those who fought for our history, when they arrived, wore the burden to defend you and others, like us, and Mrs. Deputy comes here saying that they are structural and systemic racists. I'd like to know if the PCP looks at this, because this is just one thing: it's a shame! A huge shame! A huge shame! [[Congrats from the CH.]] It is a great shame to say that our parents and grandparents, who have fought for this country, some of them buried in the soil of Africa, and others, who have returned without anything, without wages and without pensions, who have enlarged the burden of police, with wages with which none of us, today, would be able to live, these, who have defended us, are racists, because we had a history in our country. And from this story Mrs Deputy may not be proud, but I have a huge pride in all those who made Portugal and who are part of our country! [[Congrats from the CH.]] I have enormous pride in defending this nation and all those who fought in the Portuguese overseas. I'm so proud! A huge pride! Open... [[Congrats from the CH.]] And I cannot understand how it can come here, with all the history that we have, with all the history it has, forget this fabulous story, which is ours, and call everyone, to the men who defend us, racists. I'd like to know if the PCP can someday deal with this. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u155	In reply, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u156	Mr President, Mr Ventura, I began by saying that this matter required a serious debate with my feet on the ground, and I had not heard your question yet, see there. But first of all, I wanted to clarify: on this history of terrorists, you are not referring to the CFP, are you not? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u157	See what he says? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u158	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u159	Not about anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u160	Oh, good! Well, we thought it wasn't. But we are grateful for the references you made to the work of the CFP in these matters, because we are indeed proud to have a very important heritage of defence of the security forces, of concrete struggle by the security forces and of proposals, proposals which others support today.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u161	You were still in the PSD and we were already working by the security forces!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u162	But I also tell you: do you see where this discussion is going, for you to go to Iran and Twitter? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u163	You have too little to say!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u164	This, indeed, is a dignified discussion about security forces, which is incredible! Open... [[CH protests.]] And the honourable Member has no morale in this matter, because the CFP was already making proposals, he was defending in the street, in the Assembly of the Republic, in all forums, the security forces and services, and he was still in the PSD approving the lowest ever budget for the security forces. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u165	And the answers? Does it or does it not concern structural racism? Oh, my God! On structural racism, nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u166	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Free House.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u167	Mr. President and Mr. Members: Today, I welcome especially the officials of the authority, whose mission is to protect us here in this Chamber, and I take advantage to tell them one thing: there is nothing more important in life than distinguishing between false friends and true friends. [[CH's laughs.]] True friends tell us the truth, accompany us and protect us; false friends jersey, manipulate, use. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u168	Have shame on your face!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u169	True friends have always been, always on your side, as public servants: in the increase of wages, in the risk allowance, in the insularity allowance. False friends approved and applauded all the worst budgets for the police there's memory. They were there, in the party, and they supported us all those years. [[CH protests.]] He likes to talk about racism, because he knows he wants to devalue racism, but he does not talk about what was in these forums on the Internet.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u170	Joacine says it was the target of racism! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u171	He never talks about the threats of hiring snipers, talking about the 9mm bullets to kill politicians... who's on the side of the criminals...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u172	Tell me!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u173	...and who's on the side of the entire cops who reported them? Oh, my God! [[CH protests.]] It hurts, doesn't it hurt? Oh, my God! Wait, wait a minute, wait a minute! I know it hurts! Have a little silence.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u174	What about Joacine? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u175	It is important to ask what false friends do after dressing, using and manipulating. It's just asking who founded that party, the Arrival, who spoke to that rostrum... [[CH protests.]] After dressing, using and manipulating, lie outside! I'm not the one saying it; say who founded the party with it. [[CH protests.]] True friends are and will always be on your side. on that side are false friends and I know that you know perfectly well that they are false friends. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests and L-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u176	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for silence. Mr Rui Tavares has a request for clarification, but clearly he has no time to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u177	The PS gives you time! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u178	under these conditions, I ask Mr Ventura, who wishes to make the request for clarification, if he still wishes to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u179	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u180	You have the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u181	Mr President, Member, it is just to note the following: to hear the only member of this House who had a black deputy sitting in his seat, and who sent her away, to say that we are racist... Mr, that is... [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[L. Protests.]] Look, Mr. Member, let the sky fall here, now, above me... I even walk away, so that the sky may fall upon me... [[Congrats from the CH.]] The only black deputy... Look, Mr. Deputies, I'm going to give you some advice: are you seeing a black gentleman here? The only black gentleman in this house is from here! He's here with us and we beat him up! [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Mrs Romualda!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u182	Mrs Romualda is a woman! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u183	That I know...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u184	Quiet request, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Continued PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u185	So what about the genre? Oh, my God! No more genres? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u186	I ask for silence. [[Continued PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u187	Ah, the genre doesn't count anymore! [[Protests of PS Members and CH Members' Counter-Protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u188	I call for silence and request Mr André Ventura to complete his request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u189	As far as I know, Dr. Romualda is a woman and not a man. That I know, she's a woman and not a man. Let me know! Open... [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u190	Mr President, the honourable Member is approaching dangerously...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u191	I don't think this is an offense! [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u192	...of land that no one should cultivate. [[Mr André Ventura's laughs.]] I would ask you to conclude your request for clarification, which has nothing to clarify, so that we can continue the debate. Please, that's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u193	Mr. President, I just wanted to...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u194	I'm asking you to do this. I'm asking you to do this. You know what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u195	I know what you're saying, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u196	The honourable Member is a very intelligent person, and he well knows that he is approaching a path that he does not want to go. I ask you to conclude your reasoning.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u197	Mr. President, I'm sorry, but I still know which way I want to go in this house or not. I think, I think... [[Congrats from the CH.]] That is why I was only amazed at the agitation of the House in the face of a gender issue which seems to me to be obvious. Mr Rui Tavares, the only thing I wanted to make clear is this: we did not have a black deputy who sent us away and accused us of racism. It's just that no founder of arrive accuses me of racism, which I know. [[Protests by L Rui Tavares.]] But one of your deputies, who was here, accused you of racism!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u198	It didn't come to us!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u199	He accused him of himself and the Free, and he left! But, honourable Member, this Member, who was here, you know what he said? He said the cops were mostly racist. Be ashamed, when it points to those men and women, be ashamed when it comes to the police! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u200	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u201	Mr Rui Tavares asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u202	For an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings, Mr President. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u203	So, Mr President, please ask the Bureau about the conduct of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u204	Yes, Mr. President... [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u205	The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen of the Chamber will be silent, please, and you will make an inquiry to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u206	Mr President, there is a good reason why I do not deviate from the subject of the debate: I know that I am telling the truth and I know who is going astray is not telling the truth. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] I would like to ask the Bureau to send Mr André Ventura the State Budgets of the Government of which he was a militant party, which made the worst cuts ever in wages and under police conditions. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u207	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u208	Mr. André Ventura asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u209	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u210	Mr President, you have the floor for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u211	Mr President, in the way of the fact that we are used to, on the part of the sole Member, who is part of the Socialist family, I would ask you to distribute to Mr Rui Tavares, that today you are having a memory failure, the statements of Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira — and, if possible, we could present them on the screen — to the honourable Member feel ashamed when he talks about the police, when he had a Member who said...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u212	Mr...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u213	... that most cops are racist.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u214	Mr...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u215	You should be ashamed!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u216	Mr...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u217	I apologize to you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u218	Mr President, the appeal is to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings. I realized what I wanted...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u219	There is one point missing, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u220	Please, would you like something else?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u221	Yes, Mr. President. I would ask you to distribute it to everyone as well — I would even like to distribute it to the police stations in the whole country, but I cannot — the way Mr Freeman voted this State budget, which again takes rights to the police. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u222	All documents whose distribution has been requested are public and therefore, in order to avoid redundancy, this information remains. To intervene, on behalf of the Socialist Party, as soon as there are conditions, you have the floor of Mrs Susana Amador.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u223	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The contemporary concept of security is multidimensional, multilevel, comprehensive, of political character, both collective and individual, of human security. In addition to security aspects, the concept of security must also evolve for dimensions such as chronic poverty, economic and financial crises, climate change, pandemics and massive flows of migrants. Your matrix aims at peace, through security assurance. For prevention, security aims first and foremost to ensure a lasting peace. That will always be our course, in a debate we want to be serious, dense and responsible. The security of citizens, in the face of increasing diversity, complexity and unpredictability of criminal phenomena and hybrid and global threats, today, Dear Members, calls for a determined, firm and effective response by democratic states, and calls for convergence, balance and serenity, in terms of national sovereignty, all that we have not yet seen here. Security forces and services, which, within the framework of internal administration, monitor and guarantee the freedoms, rights and guarantees of citizens, form a system whose primary function is a kind of sovereignty. Security is the foundation of the State and the condition of freedom. Contributeing to objective and subjective security is a duty of everyone, because it depends on the feeling of belonging, cohesion and well-being, crucial to peace, democracy, development and prestige of the country. In the last 15 years, Portugal has seen a considerable decrease in general crime and violent and serious crime. According to the RASI of 2021, violent and serious crime is the lowest ever, down 6, 9 %, compared to 2020, the year in which the lowest values had already been recorded. With a total of 11,614 participations, violent and serious crime represented 3, 9 % of all crime participated in 2021. Mrs. Members and Members of Parliament : The recognition of Portugal as one of the safest countries in the world is essentially based on the characteristics of the national community, peaceful and open to the world, but also on the quality of our internal security system. This brand of a peaceful and secure country also adds a huge competitive advantage to other countries and makes citizens from all over the world look for us to live, to spend holidays or to invest. Once again, it is necessary to thank the men and women who are part of the security forces for their dedication, effort and competence to achieve these high standards of security and trust. Well done! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Internal security is a fundamental axis of the democratic rule of law: a state in which freedom and security are dimensions of human dignity and citizenship. Never, but never, will we deviate from these values, until these are the principles in which we forge the Free Country, the Safe and Peaceful Country that we are proud to be. Furthermore, our security forces and services are aligned and formed with these values of defence and affirmation of human rights, as well as that structural principle, which is the principle of human dignity, in the light of which the other fundamental rights are forged and interpreted, including the principle of equality and non-discrimination, as reflected in Article 13. that of our Constitution.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u224	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u225	Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Social diversity and multiculturalism are structural elements of the way in which the model of the state of democratic law is implemented, which the Portuguese Republic dignifies. The importance of promoting diversity in the effectiveness of security forces and services is recognized, with regard to various characteristics: gender, sexual orientation, ethnic-racial origin, color and descent. The Government and the Socialist Party are making every effort to make this diversity a reality today in recruiting our security forces. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The security forces serve the community, acting in it. Its composition reflects the society from which its members emerge, as referred to in the Prevention Plan for Anti-Discrimination Events in Forces and Security Services. It should be stressed that the Portuguese confidence in their security forces is quite high, as the Minister of Internal Administration pointed out at hearing in 1. the Commission last week. In fact, a 2022 OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) study tells us that confidence in security forces is higher in Portugal than the average in OECD countries. This trust in Portugal is around 70%. We are ahead of countries such as Belgium, Austria, Australia, Great Britain, France, and Canada. Portugal's peers are Sweden and New Zealand. The Eurobarometer also confirms that upward confidence level, which stood at 79 % by 2021, when in 2015 it was 62 %. Therefore, it is important to maintain these high levels of trust, which can only be motivated by our security forces and services, recognizing their value and valuing a service that we know to be particularly hard and demanding, and which was complex in successive states of emergency. More recently, this value was again evidenced with the impact of the full in several regions. And here we welcome the security forces and services, our firefighters, our city halls, joints and cameras, which gave everything to mitigate the impacts. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In turn, we cannot deny or devalue attacks on the foundations of the rule of law and the values to which our police officers and agents are subject, and which they must practice in their daily lives in interaction with the citizens. in the same way, we do not devalue and reject, in fact, the aggressions suffered by our police officers and agents in the performance of their duties. Therefore, we consider the Resolution Project 316 / XV / 1 worthy. the, of the Liberal Initiative, aiming at improving RASI data in these areas, and we welcome its contribution to this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u226	To IL? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u227	in this perspective, we welcome the recent approval of regulation of individual portable cameras — the bodycams. This is a measure which guarantees greater protection in relation to acts which are against the officials of the authority, but which at the same time provides protection for citizens regarding the use of the same force. It is a double and positive effect for both sides. The situation we know, of messages of hatred and racism of elements of the security forces, in closed groups, through an investigation carried out by a group of journalists, demands, on our part, what is being done: an attitude of great objectivity, firmness and consequent action. Of course, everyone who heeds constitutional values and who integrates forces that have to protect these same values, has more duties for the citizens, who have sworn to defend. It should be stressed, however, that at the beginning of 1. the Commission, all political forces emphasized, in the hearings held on 6 December, that we cannot confuse the whole party, so it is necessary once again to give a word of confidence to more than 45 000 women and men who, every day, safeguard constitutional values and the rule of law. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members: While trying to say otherwise in some interventions here today, given, the fact is that the facts speak for themselves and, in the last budgets of the State, the allocation for the MAI has grown...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u228	It's not for the MAI, it's for the cops!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u229	... and the appreciation of security forces and services, as well as the openness to social dialogue, have been the way forward. Otherwise, let us see: the internal security budget programme for 2023 shows a total of EUR 2601 million, which represents more than EUR 220 million compared to 2022. I would like to highlight the unequivocal political will of the Government and the Socialist Party to strengthen, even more, the security of the country and to value those who guarantee public order and work for peace, in the community, which translates into four aspects: the first aspect concerns the modernization of infrastructure and operationality; the second aspect refers to strengthening and rejuvenation of human resources; the third point to the dignity and re-evaluation of security forces; and the fourth and final aspect points to an integrated strategy for urban security. Let us take a closer look at the first aspect of infrastructure modernization and operationality. It should be noted that in the final programming cycle, 340 million euros were executed, more than 72 projects were launched, more than 2152 vehicles were delivered, 25 506 weapons and accessories, close to 40 000 individual protective equipment, 22 000 operational theatre support equipment and more than 2100 specialized function equipment. The new programming framework is already in force for 2022 - 2026, with a global investment of EUR 607 million. It will strengthen the infrastructure network, throughout the country and on the islands, and improve the operationality of security forces and services. Tens of procedures have already been launched, reaching a global value of more than EUR 6, EUR 5 million. We are once again on the side of security and on the side of the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The second aspect, the strengthening and rejuvenation of human resources, is being given continuity to a multiannual plan for admissions to security forces and services. The admission requirements were changed, ensuring the net increase, rejuvenation, maintenance of high levels of readiness and operational effectiveness of the effectives; 2699 admissions were met in 2021, and 2600 vacancies for the security forces were opened this year, as well as more than 1400 military and military personnel who have completed their training already this year. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the rejuvenation effort of the security forces will, in particular, allow more than 1600 guards during this year, after more than 3100 already recruited and trained since 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They have already started functions until October 2022, 921 PSP agents, 29 officers and 1164 guards. We are, once again, next to the security forces, next to the Portuguese. The third aspect is the dignity and appreciation of the security forces. For 2023, the expected wage increase, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is the largest of the last decade, the largest of the last 10 years — which will also be applied in 2024, 2025 and 2026 — and mirrors in the coming year an investment in the human resources of our security forces of more than EUR 1724 million, with EUR 869 million for GNR and EUR 854 million for PSP. It is an increase of 5, 9 % and the path remains open, on a permanent agenda for social dialogue. The salary increase for 2023 is another measure of validation of working conditions, adding to the investment of EUR 114 million, in the years 2020 to 2023, in the payment of retroactives, vacation supplements and also in the increase in the fixed component of the service supplement and risk in the security forces, which increased from €31 to €100 and in which we want to continue to work. With the new increase in the value of the supplement per service and risk in the security forces, between 10, 2 % and 21, 5 %, the value of the supplement is now fixed between 279, 50 € and 964, 60 €. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Faces and expensive ladies. Members, the adoption of measures to improve the living conditions of the police force also goes through the implementation, via PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ) of some EUR 40 million intended to guarantee accommodation for the elements of the newly trained security forces. That is to say, a housing condition for the police elements, military elements and their family aggregates, also through the social services of GNR and PSP. The amount of EUR 21, EUR 8 million was also approved in the Council of Ministers very recently so that the PSP will strengthen the conditions for the accommodation of new police in the Lisbon Metropolitan Area, which is added to the EUR 40 million already mentioned and will ensure that about three hundred young police officers are able to be properly installed in the Lisbon Metropolitan Area when they start their professional career. We are faced with an enormous effort, a joint effort which now has a meaning of more than EUR 60 million to invest in improving living conditions, attractiveness and dignity for the exercise of police functions. Add, ladies and gentlemen. Members who, like all Portuguese, our security forces also benefited from the relevant package of family support measures, First Families,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u230	Socialists first!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u231	... from which we highlight the payment of 125 € to each citizen with average monthly income of less than 2700 € and the payment of 50 € for each child, together with the increase of family allowance and the freeness of school manuals and day care. This Parliamentary Group must also express its appreciation to the Government at the end of this year—as our parliamentary leader Eurico Brillante Dias pointed out yesterday — with certain accounts and with the granting of an extraordinary new support to families most vulnerable to the effects of inflation. A million families will be covered. We are, once again, next to the Portuguese, next to who needs the most. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u232	The numbers are fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u233	Finally, it is important to refer to the component of the integrated strategy for urban security. Urban security is of utmost importance to citizens. It should be noted that, in Portugal, 44, 5 % of the population lives in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto, so we must not fail to stress the importance of strengthening prevention policies, vital to improve security levels in an internal security system that needs proximity. It is thus central to a systemic concept of security that involves a joint work such as the one being done with the government, with the security forces, with the autarchs, with civil society, with the academy, in the diagnosis, in the mapping and conception of the implementation of an urban security strategy. Equally, the new local security contracts with local authorities — where social issues, gender equality and combating domestic violence and juvenile crime cross — are instruments of excellence. The guidelines of the Commission on Integrated Juvenile Crime Analysis will also be integrated into this strategy. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, perception and feeling of insecurity do not always correspond to existing levels of crime. The narrative of insecurity does not match the reality of the issues of the Annual Internal Security Report.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u234	They're fakes!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u235	The increase in criminal frameworks is not the most appropriate criminal reaction, however, until the harshest criminal systems are precisely those that also have worse crime rates. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And the issue of the ratio of police per inhabitant also has no comparative adherence to neighbouring countries, Spain or France. In fact, compared to the capitals of the closest countries in Portugal, Lisbon has more police and police facilities per capita. However, we want to bet on the proximity police, which, on the one hand, guarantees the safety of all and, on the other, adequate levels of sense of Community security. therefore we are globally in accordance with the Draft Resolution No. 315 / XV / 1a, of the Liberal Initiative, on the proximity police, which we will make possible. Increasing the effectiveness of police activity in cities requires the creation of a new model of proximity teams and, from them, the strengthening of the Community police model based on the proximity of the police to the citizens. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the rule of law does not preserve itself. The fundamental values dignify the model of Western society that Portugal does not lack to achieve—from the very outset by constitutional imperative—and require constant protection. Our horizon is a permanent protection and promotion of the fundamental rights of all citizens, for the sake of lasting peace, for all and for all. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u236	The Bureau made a request for clarification to the honourable Member. To formulate it, I give the floor to Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa, PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u237	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, commitments behind commitments, announcements behind announcements, negotiations behind negotiations, promises behind promises. For the Government and for the Socialist Party it was not this, but it is surely next year; it was not this year, but next year it will be. Mrs Susana Amador, don't you think the police deserve another respect, another attention, another consideration for the noble role they play? Oh, my God! at the end of seven years of socialist governance, Ms. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, almost everything goes on in the same, or even worse, given the increased cost of living and inflation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u238	Don't look at me! Don't look at me!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u239	Police professionals are tired! The Portuguese are tired of the government's propaganda, which, fortunately, can no longer erase reality. It is no longer able to eliminate the shortage of assets and the severe lack of investment in human resources and in the infrastructures of the security forces, somewhat throughout the country; it cannot eliminate the low wages, the irrefutable benefit of risk, the ageing of the asset, the lack of means and cars, the degradation of facilities, the closure of the teams, the lack of equipment; it cannot shut down, Mrs and Mrss. Members, paid and paid late and payable amounts, lockdowns, withdrawal of leave and work on rest days. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is the hard reality of the PSP in the Wonderland of Antonio Costa,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u240	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u241	... to which I add the low degree of implementation of the Programming Law, far less than the expected. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the reality also tells us that the police have less and less response capacity for citizens' demands, given the lack of effective police and investment; and that the announcements of new admissions are clearly insufficient to meet the real needs of the country and cover the retirement exits. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the deficit in effectiveness, between the expected entries and exits, will worsen in the coming years due to lack of attractive careers, either in terms of wages or in terms of appreciation and progression. These issues of wage valuation, improvement and respect for the working conditions of the police are not resolved, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, by means of remedies or by means of harsh measures, but by means of a strategy and a structural reform which the Government is slowing down to do. Mrs Susana Amador, when will the government move from announcements to practice, from propaganda to reality, and actually invest in the valorization of the police and the security of the people? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u242	In reply, Mrs Susana Amador has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u243	Mr President, Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa, I am grateful, of course, for the questions she raises, but I think you have been looking at the rearview mirror. I think you've been looking back, because I remember, in fact, decreases, subtractions and unfulfilled ads, but it wasn't with the Socialist Party, it was with the right government,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... that only subtracted, only decreased in the support of the security forces. So, over seven years, we are not announcing, but fulfilling. There is a Programming Act that did not exist — the Programming Act is already an acquisition by the Government of the Socialist Party — and I believe that EUR 340 million of implementation, more than 72 undertakings and a whole set of information on individual equipment and protection exemplifie what has been done. But now we have a new Programming Law that doubles that value to 607 million and this is our difference, to Mrs. Member: you have subtracted and diminished and we add, and you are not ads. [[PSD protests.]] Is it not true that the State budget brings us an additional EUR 220 million in the budget programme for internal security? It's true, it's not an ad. Is it not true that there is a multi-annual admission plan in which our security forces are filling vacancies, where there is concern about attractiveness? Is it not true that we are looking at this situation in a strategic and structural way because, through the PRR, more than EUR 40 million will be allocated to housing? Is it also true that we will reinforce with more EUR 21 million for the Lisbon Metropolitan Area, the acquisition of buildings for this purpose? It is EUR 60 million for housing and if that is not looking to the future in a prospective and strategic way, I don't know what it is looking at structurally. At the same time, I want to say, too, that is not an advertisement, it is true! — there was an agenda for social dialogue, hearing and working meetings with our security forces which resulted in an increase in the effective wage base. Mrs Deputy, it is the biggest wage increase in the last 10 years, and this is not an ad, it is reality. There is an increase between 8, 95 % and 12, 7 %, between 90 € and 107 €, for the first levels of these careers. And it could continue to demonstrate that there is an appreciation, a dignity of the security forces, an investment in infrastructure, a work in proximity police, a concern with prevention and, above all, a joint work of hearing and ongoing dialogue with the union forces, with our authorities and with all the agents who help us, daily, to make this country safe, modern and state-of-law that we are proud of. Security forces are one of the biggest strategic assets to continue to have this important, competitive and strategic brand of Safe Country, which we are proud to be and that we want to continue to be, in a set of global and hybrid threats that require a lot of integrated work, a lot of interdisciplinary work. This is what we are doing with the integrated analysis of juvenile delinquency, also strategically, also structurally, also in mainstreaming. So, ladies and gentlemen, they're not ads, they're not mere programs or intentions, it's something that's happening. We want more and, therefore, in the Assembly of the Republic, in this Parliamentary Group and surely in the Government we will continue to hear, work and dialogue with our security forces with the respect and dignity they deserve. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u244	Mr Rui Afonso has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u245	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is indisputable that the exercise of professions related to public security has associated risks, which, including, is already legally recognized, both in Decree-Law No 298/2009 of 14 October 2009 which approves the remuneration system of GNR military personnel, as in Decree-Law No 243/2015 of 19 October and subsequent amendments, which approves the professional status of staff with police functions of the Public Security Police. However, this recognition in the letter of the law is not enough, but it is also necessary to compensate these professionals properly, which are essential for the maintenance of public order and the Portuguese rule of law.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u246	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u247	The so-called ‘risk subsidy’ was initially only €31, and was increased to €100 in January of this year, following the approval of the State budget last year. In accordance with Article 42 of the State Budget Act for 2021, concerning the allocation of specific value which compensates for the increased risk and penosity of their functions, the Government has determined the increase of €69 in the fixed component of the service supplement in the security forces, moving this subsidy to contemplate the risk of the profession. It turns out that this value has been challenged by the PSP unions and socio-professional associations of the GNR, which consider it insufficient and insignificant in view of the risks they effectively feel in the performance of their functions. The arrival has always prioritized the demands of security forces professionals, precisely because they understand the importance of their role. In its electoral programme, this party advocates the promotion of a civic culture of respect for the authority and dignity of security forces and services agents that involve the sensitivity of ordinary citizens. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u248	This renewed civic ambition requires administrative, logistical and legislative reforms that provide the police forces and their respective agents of resources, means and personal dignity, family, professional and social,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u249	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u250	... indispensable to the good performance of your sovereignty mission. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u251	The Bureau shall make a request for clarification to the honourable Member. To formulate it, you have the floor of Mrs Ofélia Ramos, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u252	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, of course, I would like to begin by welcoming the House for bringing the issue of security forces to the debate, because it is indeed a subject of the greatest importance, which it deserves to be debated in this House. Let me say, however, that the interest of arriving on this subject goes far beyond the concern about fundamental issues...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u253	in this case it's too short!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u254	... such as public order, public security, the training of security forces or the dignity of the profession of all those who, daily, risk their lives... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u255	...in defense of the safety of all of us.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u256	This is a process of intent, Your Honor!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u257	The interest of arriving is indeed to explore this theme, populistly, to capitalize not only on the sympathy of the class, but also on the majority of Portuguese who want to live in security and support—and very well! — the police, against minorities who do not comply with the law. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u258	That's what you're doing! And that's so ugly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u259	Therefore, we do not recognize the air quality of the security forces,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u260	You recognize the police, that's what matters!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u261	...because these deserve more than demagogy and populism. [[PSD applause.]] [[CH protests.]] They deserve the respect and recognition of all Portuguese, because security forces are a fundamental pillar for the maintenance of social peace and democratic life. [[CH protests.]] Under no circumstances can we question the confidence of Portuguese in the security forces and the fact that Portugal is a safe country cannot continue to be an argument for the Government to neglect the security forces. If we want to continue to be a safe country, the government must train the security forces and dignify its professionals. Having said that, the initiatives that are being discussed today do not contribute at all to a serious debate on a subject that is too important not to deal with proper preparation and dignity. It is not serious to bring the debate an initiative for the crimes of resistance and coercion on employees to be judged in summary proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u262	Ask the cops!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u263	And it is not serious because this solution, presented by the Arrival, is already contained in the law and, therefore, nothing adds, has any useful effect. We are not the ones who say it, it is the Supreme Council of Magistracy. Nor is it serious to bring the debate an extemporaneous initiative or, I would say, premature with regard to the diploma which regulates the use of portable cameras.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u264	And what does the PSD bring to debate?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u265	...or, using the Anglo-Saxon term, the bodycams. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] And we say this because, despite the government's zighuzags on this matter, since two preliminary drafts have already been drawn up, all deserving of an adverse opinion by the National Data Protection Commission, the fact is that, on 7 December last, the Council of Ministers approved the diploma in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u266	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u267	in this sense, we do not yet know whether or not the Government has welcomed the repairs of the National Data Protection Commission and therefore we must wait quietly for the publication of the diploma in the Journal of the Republic; at that time we will all be able to consider a possible parliamentary assessment of this diploma.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u268	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u269	Finally, Mr Rui Afonso, although we understand that the government treats our security forces with disregard — this about the allocation of the risk allowance, especially when we compare... [[PS protests.]] ... the risk allowance taken by the security forces with the same allowance taken by the SEF inspectors or by any judicial police officer —,,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u270	So long to give us reason!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u271	... I ask how we can take it seriously, if today it presents us with a proposal to increase the risk allowance to 450 €, when only a few months ago it presented, in this Chamber, exactly an initiative to propose the increase of 300 €!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u272	It's the value of inflation!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u273	Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be serious about the security forces. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u274	That's dishonest! Inflation has increased!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u275	Let us stop demagogy and populism and deal with this matter with the seriousness it deserves. [[PSD applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u276	To respond to the request for clarification, Mr Rui Afonso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u277	Mr President, Mrs Ofélia Ramos, in 15 proposals submitted by the Arrival to improve the life of the security forces, you only voted in favour of one,... [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u278	Quantity is not synonymous with quality!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u279	... having finally refused our proposal to increase the risk supplement to 450 €. And you're talking about how we previously put forward a proposal to increase the risk supplement to 300 € and now to 450 €? Oh, my God! But does that make any sense? Oh, my God! [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u280	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Mónica Quintela now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u281	Mr President, whom I welcome, such as the ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first words go to the elements of the security forces and services that have not tolerated or committed to discriminatory publications and hate messages that some of your colleagues have seen do and that have resorted to the assistance of the consortium of journalists to denounce these behaviors.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u282	It wasn't the colleagues! That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u283	In good time they did it and are believers of our praise. [[PSD applause.]] As it is public knowledge, a consortium of journalists released a report...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u284	Extremely left, tell the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u285	...that shows discriminatory, racist and xenophobic behaviors of members of the forces and security services on social networks. This journalistic investigation will have allowed the alleged identification of 591 PSP and GNR military agents who will have publicly and repeatedly violated the law by violating internal regulations. I therefore welcome the consortium of journalists for having denounced a situation that is of public interest, allowing the debate to eradicate such behaviour. [[CH protests.]] I remember that already last week, at the headquarters of 1. the Commission held four hearings, having been heard by Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Mr. Inspector-General of IGAI, Mr. Commander-General of the GNR and Mr. Director-General of the PSP. I reiterate here the importance of a free, independent press for the foundations of the democratic rule of law. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u286	I also welcome the security forces and services, valuable men and women who are solely at the service of the Portuguese people and who are strictly remote as Article 25 tells us. that of the Internal Security Act, this article that the arrival has forgotten in the proposal that the security forces may be members of political parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u287	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u288	The arrival has forgotten this article, but it is a matter of national sovereignty, and that these forces compete to ensure our internal security. We owe them the maintenance of peace, order, security and public tranquillity, often endangering their own lives to protect us. The PSD expresses its respect and consideration for the security forces and services and the prestige of its institutions. We have no doubt that the authors of these publications are the tree and not the forest of security forces and services. An official requires scrupulously compliance with the rule of law. We do not want in the security forces and services people who have ideas contrary to the principles enshrined in our Basic Law. These behaviors affect the image of institutions and undermine citizens' confidence in the rule of law and justice. Therefore, to prove these behaviors, which are consistent with the practice of crimes, doubts remain that they must be punished in an exemplary manner. IGAI and the Attorney-General of the Republic have already said that they have initiated proceedings and that they will have been given priority. It is shocking to see the feeling of total impunity that fats in the publications that have been allowed to do, publications on social networks of wide dissemination and where they make the apology and incitement of crimes. It is shocking that the elements that did not accept these practices have more confidence in journalists to denounce them than in the institutions that integrate them. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u289	And from here we have to remove the proper illusions, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. It also shocks the lack of attractiveness of the profession, which leads to the removal of the best and the competitions to be completed. And the decrease in the requirements for access to the profession, in particular by extending the age group of candidates, reducing compulsory schooling at entry and lowering the level of eligibility in psychological assessments—which, I remember, had five scales and became only one, apt to not fit—, did not wish anything good. The lack of attractiveness of the police career is a serious problem and the unions have already reported that the increase promised by the Minister of Internal Administration is clearly insufficient. from this note and we all saw the strikes that took place and the demands that have been made. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u290	Inadequately, we are also represented by the Plan for Prevention of Events of Discrimination in the Forces and Security Services presented by the Government in March 2021, which is not serving the scope for which it was created, as is evident from the mere reading of the reported publications. A final word to say that the PSD strongly condemns, too, all and any behaviour against security forces and services and that it will always be in the front line to enhance and fight for its prestige and to give them the working and safety conditions compatible with the dignity and responsibility of their duties. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u291	The Bureau registered a request for clarification from the honourable Member. To formulate it, Mr. Paulo Araújo Correia, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u292	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been much talk here about valuing the work of security forces and services, men and women of the security forces and services. To value this work is, of course, to recognize that Portugal is a safe country, to recognize that RASI data are valid. And if Portugal is a safe country, it is also thanks to work, to the inexhaustible work, of men and women who every day guarantee that we are a safe country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is also to be very concrete and clear that the signs detected in the work of journalistic research—and they are, indeed, indications—are to be seen as being real, to be extremely serious. This recognition was made by the Ministry of Internal Administration, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, who immediately determined the initiation of an investigation by IGAI, and also by the Attorney-General of the Republic, which immediately determined the initiation of an investigation. It therefore instructs us to look forward to the conclusion of these investigations and to rely on the work being done. But to value the work of security forces and services is also not to allow a minority, however noisy, to carry out the work of security forces and services...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u293	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u294	... and sustains the security bond that, over the decades, has been created between men and women of the security forces and services and our people and that is absolutely essential for the proper functioning of our democratic rule of law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u295	Who are you talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u296	But this is also to ensure that we know that the work of the security forces and services is demanding and that, if our people need them, the women and men of the security forces and services also need us, of the Members here. And we are responding to the needs of the men and women of the security forces and services.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u297	They're laughing!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u298	The 2023 Budget, in which the banks of the right and the extreme right voted against, foresees the largest increase in basic wages of the decade. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Did you hear me? The biggest increase in wages of the decade!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u299	It's asking the cops if they have it in their pocket!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u300	Even last week, by resolution of the Council of Ministers, the sum of EUR 20 million for the purchase of housing was approved, which will allow the immediate provision of housing to men and women of the security forces and services. [[CH protests.]] They well know how important it is to have a home, especially those who are displaced in Lisbon, and how essential this commitment by the Government of the Republic is to improve their working conditions. We also spoke in the Programming Act, which already this year provides for an investment of EUR 72 million for the purchase of equipment, for the improvement of infrastructure. We are therefore in the Government of the Republic, committed to improving the attractiveness of careers, to valuing work, and the question I want to ask the PSD... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u301	... is this precisely: that we do not live in a pink world and that it is certainly necessary to do more, recognises the significant steps that have been taken by the Government of the Republic to improve the attractiveness of careers and the working conditions of men and women of the security forces? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u302	In reply, Mrs Monica Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u303	Mr President, I am grateful for the questions put by the honourable Member, but indeed we cannot recognize them because we, when we leave the government, left excellent conditions. [[PS laughter.]] The Socialist Party has been in government for seven years and I cannot understand why security forces and services are so dissatisfied with the governance they have done!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u304	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u305	Ask them why they are dissatisfied; ask them why they are not satisfied with your proposals. [[Protests from PS Paulo Araújo Correia.]] Look, the dissatisfaction of security forces and services is the best answer I can give you. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u306	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u307	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Very briefly, there is one thing that, frankly, we have to say, in particular to the honourable Members. Members of the Socialist Party, is that you cannot continue to pretend that you do not know that the lack of response to the problems of the country aggravates these problems...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u308	Six Budgets!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u309	... and that this seriously affects democracy. That is what gives strength to the speech and the phenomena that you say to fight.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u310	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u311	When the PS rejoices, there in the rostrum, with the policy he has followed for the security forces and when he boasts he has increased — it is time! — the risk supplement from 30 € to 100 €...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u312	Six budgets you approved!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u313	... does not say that this was a fraud of the legitimate expectations of PSP and GNR professionals. They are talking to us of an increase of €70 for the security forces as if it were a lot, as if they were doing a favor, but they are not saying that only this year, that is, of the Budget for this one, have increased by more than €1000 million the value they deliver to the health business. [[PS protests.]] That is not what you say, and this is the clear image of the politics of this Socialist Party Government: the coughs for those who work, hands wide for those who command. [[PS protests.]] Mrs. Members, with all honesty, the PS cannot continue to pretend that it does not know that by ignoring the demands of security forces professionals, by disrespecting democrats in the security forces,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u314	What about Russia? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u315	... what you are doing, indeed, is giving strength to those who fight democracy and the speech that you say you fight. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u316	For an intervention on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mrs Rita Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u317	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u318	We also know how to systematically interrupt! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u319	Talk to your friend. Don't get mad! He's very nervous!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u320	If Mr Pedro Pinto leaves Mrs Rita Matias who is right behind you, speak, she is able to thank you. Please, Your Honor. One more attempt.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u321	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me to refer to the beginning of this debate, to the opening, when Mr Ventura concluded his speech saying that we will always defend our heroes. After this intervention there was no request for clarification and the following part of the Socialist Party’s bench was heard: “They spoke alone. Do not keep on seeking. ” I think I'm going to agree for the first time with a socialist, whoever he wants to be, because, in fact, as far as security forces are concerned, he gets to talk to himself...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u322	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u323	...no shame. [[Congrats from the CH.]] And so we will continue, if necessary, until we have a majority in this House and we will be able to give this class the dignity it needs. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u324	Then I also wanted to say that since the beginning of December, we have seen many reports like these, for example: « Man tries to bite cops », « Prevented from entering the Casino de Espinho strike three PSPs », « Two GNR assaulted and kidnapped on the Coast of Caparica », « PSP Team again attacked with cocktailsilmolotov in Bela Vista, Setúbal », « More than 3000 police injured and four killed in service in the last three years ».
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u325	Where's the consortium? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u326	All this news is from December and we have not yet heard any words during this debate on this matter. We must therefore reject this political class which has a set of good intentions, many words, but which does not come to debate with any concrete proposal and, above all, we must repudiate those who take the whole part, such as the political class that is now beginning to leave the Chamber, such as journalists and, above all, as activists who refer to our security forces as « bosta da bofia» or « hogs»,... [[Congrats from the CH.]] ...that they say that good police is dead police, that those who wear the burden are disgusting and that our security forces are cowards. These are the comments that are made daily on social networks. Moreover, it is repugnant to hear those who call themselves women's defenders and who, in fact, play a bad role in the defense of women and in the defense of life by saying that they repudiated security forces, their racism, and speaking in domestic violence, and that when a victim is being assaulted they are not the same activists who go, of nails in their hands and sing the Grândola, Vila Morena, stand in front of the aggressors; they are the security forces who are there in the most difficult hours. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Therefore, we can only reject this political class and say that, in the face of these serious offenses to which security forces are subject, the arrival brings a concrete proposal for Article 240. the Criminal Code, which already provides for the criminalization of incitement to hatred and discrimination of certain groups, may also include members of criminal police bodies and members of judicial bodies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u327	Don't mix!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u328	This is a proposal for the most basic justice to combat the climate of hatred that is incited in this House and therefore it remains for you to define which side you want to be on the side of the police if on the side of the thieves. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u329	All standing, this looks like the Ladra Fair!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u330	I would ask the Members, in particular the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, to avoid standing behind speakers and causing too much noise. We still have several speeches to hear. The next intervention will be by Mr André Coelho Lima, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u331	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I congratulate everyone and I would like to say, at the conclusion of this debate — I have been taking notes as I listened — that I regret the way he has contributed so little to the fact that the security forces and services officers who are out there understand exactly what we are available to do for them. [[All right!]] [[Protests by CH Member Pedro dos Santos Frazão.]] Everyone wants to use them, everyone wants to hang on to security forces and services agents, but few people are actually interested in working to help them. [[PSD applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u332	Zero PSD proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u333	Let's go for stitches. First of all, I would like to say to you, Mr President, that you are here at a time which I consider regrettable, indeed, using the expression most used in this Parliament —'shammous' — when you spoke of Mr Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro and Mrs Romualda Fernandes as almost as trophies. [[PSD applause.]] Here, Mr President, I would like to put a very certain point: they both deserve all the respect of this House and the country and, for me, they are not black, like others are not Asian or Slavic, they are Portuguese and that is why we are here. [[PSD, PS, IL, PCP and BE applause.]] [[CH protests.]] Mr President, I would also like to say that, contrary to the childishization of this matter which the Commission is trying to do and the approach it makes on the position of the PSD,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u334	Which PSD?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u335	... I would like to recall that the PSD intervenes, there in the rostrum, recalling the proposals it presented in the State budget on this matter; the PSD intervenes, from here on the bench, recalling the incongruence of the bills submitted by the Arrival to the extent that they refer to the matter already provided for in the law; and the PSD never ceases to condemn the government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u336	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u337	...that it is who has been in office for seven years and cannot create decent conditions for agents' careers to be attractive. [[PSD applause.]] We have taken a step in the matter, which is how it should be taken, and we have also been investigating the consortium of journalists, praising those who have to be praised — the journalists who have done the research and the agents who have made the complaints — and, it is necessary to stress, asking: how is it possible that it was necessary to resort to journalists and complaints so that the State would do what it should be its role, which is the role of research and detecting these matters without having to be the press to do so? Having said this, Mr President, I would still like to talk about Mr Ventura's speech — we do not stop doing it, we do so at the time we believe it is relevant to do so! [[CH protests.]] And I'm going to tell you the following, sir... if you can just shut up the people trying to disturb who's here talking... [[PSD applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u338	You can't send anyone to shut up! It's the President who commands to shut up!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u339	Let me talk! ...you're trying to turn this into a tavern, but we're not gonna let it go. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the PS and BE Members.]] [[CH protests.]] Mr. Deputy spoke on the subject and said that the police are being persecuted. The phrase is yours and I will quote it as strictly as possible: "The affection of police officers to the ideals of the party has led them to be persecuted. Do not keep on seeking. ” Sir, as I know, I have never seen such a big attack on your ideals. What we're talking about is not ideals, it's crimes. what we are talking about — which motivates all this — is of a potentially criminal nature, is not ideal because police can have any ideal of the ideals present in this Parliament. I must say more to you, moreover: for whom do you say that you defend autonomy, independence, the dignity of security forces and services, but want to allow them to enter the political-party game, want to help the police or help you? [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the PS and BE Members.]] [[CH protests and PSD counter-protests.]] You want to party politics with the cops! [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the PS and BE Members.]] So, Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying the following: I want to agree with the Arrival when I said that the security forces and services officers, men and women, are our heroes. They are, yes sir, but they are not just the heroes of the Arrival, they are the heroes of the Liberal Initiative, they are the heroes of the PSD, the heroes of the Free PS, the PAN, the PCP and the Left Block. They're the heroes of the country! We don't split up, we have to help. [[PSD, PS and L ( standing) and IL, BE and PAN applause.]] [[CH protests and PSD counter-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u340	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for silence. The Bureau records the inclusion of a request for clarification from Mr André Ventura, but clearly there will be no time to respond to it. I ask Mr Ventura if you would like to maintain the request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u341	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u342	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u343	Mr. André Coelho Lima, on the day the Left Block, the PCP and the Free had hit me when I talked about the police, I would fix my shirt, I would leave and disappear. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u344	The PCP didn't applaud!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u345	It will be his heritage the way he managed to drive, when speaking of the police, those who call them "bosta da bófia", who call them "criminos and racists" to the police.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u346	All right! [[PSD MP André Coelho Lima's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u347	PSD doesn't realize that when the PS applause comes it's just for one thing: it's because they're sinking and burying more and more. Don't you understand? Is it that hard to understand? Oh, my God! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr President, it is not enough to say that we are next to the police, we have to put forward proposals and vote for them. It is not to reduce the police's budget money and to vote aside from those who want to give more rights to the police. If you want the PS applause, you will have-CL- it, and the Left Block too. We prefer the applause of those men and women cops. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u348	People applaud!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u349	Mr Filipe Melo has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party. [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u350	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen... [[PS and PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u351	I ask for silence.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u352	Mr. President and Mr. Members : I would like to begin by addressing Mr André Coelho Lima. The honourable Member referred to the tavern. I don't know where the PSD Members are who are normally not here, but the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival always has the 12 Members in this House. So if anyone goes to the taverns, it's not us. [[PSD protests.]] It's not us! Then I would like to say to you, Mr President, that we already told you that the parties in the far left of this House and the PS would come to this debate with this position, but we never expected this from the PSD. But I will tell you something else: at a time when you are drowning, with your head completely under water, and the security forces will not save you. [[PS and PSD protests.]] Mr. President and Mr. Members, the amendment to Law No 95 / 2021 states that officials of the authority may use video surveillance cameras to prove it. I must tell you that when we spoke in Article 10. the, of the introduction of bodycams, this question was referred to the National Data Protection Commission for its pronouncement. The two opinions were negative, and we have also reached the point of recommending that the Government amend the opinion so that, with the consent of the citizen, the recording of the image be approved. It means this: there's a police officer being assaulted and you're going to ask the bandit if you can film. Is this or isn't playing with the security forces? [[Congrats from the CH.]] If they want to provide the security forces with means, then they give them the means and give them the dignity they deserve, but they do not have the right to be militants from any party. If doctors can be party militants, if teachers can, if everyone can, why can't security forces?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u353	Because they're security forces!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u354	This is a violation of the principle of equality provided for in the Constitution. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u355	Mr President, may I use the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u356	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u357	Mr. President, it is to defend the honor of the bench. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u358	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u359	Mr President, it is to say to Mr Filipe Melo, and to any other Member of this House, that neither the PSD Members nor any Member of this House have the right to speak about professionalism, ethics and the participation of the Members of the other parties. [[PSD and PS Members applauded.]] [[CH Member Protests Bruno Nunes.]] Therefore, if you have any complaints about the participation in plenary of the 78 PSD Members, please submit it to the President,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u360	That's 77! You don't even know how many they are!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u361	If you have any complaints about the participation of the 77 PSD Members, please submit them to the President of the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u362	That's the only thing you can send to shut up!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u363	We do not accept any consideration of how PSD Members participate in the Plenary and Commissions. [[PSD and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u364	If Mr Filipe Melo wants to give satisfaction, he has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u365	Mr President, I would like to remind Mr Miranda Sarmento — who is sometimes absent from the debates and not present what his bench does —... [[PSD protests.]] ... that Mr. André Coelho Lima, who is sitting next to you, insinuated that here at this bench were taverns, which we did not admit either, Mr. [[Congrats from the CH.]] With regard to the presence or not, I must tell you that Members have autonomy to say what I said — and what I would say again — because we are assisted by a mission, which is of scrutiny. And if we examine what the government does, we also need to examine each other's work. [[PS and PSD protests and CH counter-protests.]] When your posture has been outraged,... [[PS and PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u366	They're scared, aren't they? They're scared!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u367	I call for silence so that the speaker can conclude his reasoning. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u368	Thank you, Mr. President. This reaction is fair to what Mr Coelho Lima has said, it seems that we are on the site that Mr Deputy mentioned. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u369	To close the debate, Mr Pedro Pinto, of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor. [[PS and PSD protests and CH counter-protests.]] I ask for silence so that you may intervene.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u370	It's enough you don't want to hear!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u371	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u372	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I do not respect the members of the government because, in such an important debate as this on security forces, the government was all absent. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] It was something we had already hoped for, since that is how the Government, which the Socialist Party supports, binds the security forces. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It was clear here today, in this debate, who is next to the security forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u373	It's not enough, of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u374	by marking this initiative, we wanted to talk about the problems of our GNR police and military. We spoke in populism, demagogy, but that is what the PSD did at the end of this debate. Although we open the debate to all political forces, only the Liberal Initiative came to play, with two draft resolutions. The other parties say they defend the police, but they remain silent, not a proposal. When we do not ask for clarification, in a coalition of the system against a political force, and they say, in deafness, "Let them speak alone", it is not to us who let them speak alone, it is to the Portuguese people, who are at home. They're the ones who keep talking to themselves, with that attitude of yours. [[Congrats from the CH.]] They speak of democracy, of April, with nails to the chest—the shame of you! That is your democracy, but democracy is also ours, democracy is all of us, that we have been elected with the votes of the Portuguese. The big difference is that while we respect all Portuguese, all the Members here, you don't. [[PS and PSD protests.]] During this debate, they wanted to play at least on the problems of the police. BE came with the usual dishonesty, but the Arrival always said that, in existence, it rejected all and any racist behavior. [[Protests from BE Pedro Filipe Soares.]] We always said this and the Left Block knows it's true, because it was in the audition! [[Protests from BE Pedro Filipe Soares.]] It is only intellectual dishonesty, Member of the Commission. from the PS bench, Mrs Susana Amador went up to the rostrum to make her usual propaganda of « Wonderland ». [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] It is not enough to say « well done », « greetings », « confidence in the security forces ». He spoke in millions, millions and millions, but first I apologize to our police for the PS having voted against the proposals of the Arrival to improve the lives of the security forces. Excuse them for having poor wages, apologize for the PS having refused our proposal to increase the risk supplement. Apologize for not wanting to increase the number of staff or for not having cars in condition.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u375	Look at the weather!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u376	Apologize to the six police officers who are assaulted daily and to the family of Agent Fábio Guerra, who died barbarously at the door of a discotheque. That's what the honourable Member should have done. [[Congrats from the CH.]] When the PSD speaks in consortia of journalists dominated by the extreme left and comes even, imagine, to praise this work — "great work of the extreme left that dominates a consortium of journalists! """""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""" This is the big difference between the Arrival and the PSD. We would never defend the extreme left,... [[Congrats from the CH.]] ...we would never defend those who attack security forces, we are always on the right side of history,
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u377	on the right side of the story? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u378	... against the bandits and for the police. [[PSD Members' laughs.]] The PSD has again missed this debate and again did a favour to the Socialist Party, as it did when the 15-year debates ended. As much as you try, they'll never shut us up. [[Ch's applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u379	We shall therefore end the debate and we shall proceed to the vote. I would ask the services to activate the quorum verification register and the Members. Members to register. [[Pause.]] I wonder if any Member of Parliament or some Member of Parliament have not been able to register. [[Pause.]] Tell me Mr Duarte Pacheco that you have not been able to register — « In the iron house...! ' — and tell me that Mr Pacheco de Amorim has not been able to register either. That's how they're recorded. I ask the services to advertise the result of the quorum verification. [[Pause.]] We have quorum, so we shall proceed to the vote. We begin with the general vote on Bill No. 23 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Crime of incitement to hate against members of criminal police and judicial bodies. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L were rejected, votes against the CH and abstention from the PSD.]] We generally vote for Bill No. 35 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Increases to €450 the fixed component of the service supplement and risk in the security forces taken by the Republican National Guard military and police officers. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH and the NAP and abstentions to the PSD, the IL, the CFP, the BE and the L.]] The general vote of Bill No 255 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (CH) — Application of the summary procedure to the trial of resistance and coercion crimes against civil servants. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L were rejected, votes against the CH and abstention from the PSD.]] We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 379 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — First amendment to Law No 95 / 2021 of 29 December with a view to regulating the characteristics and standards of placement, activation, signalling and use of portable cameras by the security forces, and the form of transmission, storage and access to the data collected. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the CH and abstentions from the PSD, the IL and the NAP.]] We now vote in general on Bill No. 397 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Right to party affiliation of security forces agents other than military or militarized agents of the effective standing frameworks. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PS, the CFP, the BE and the NAP were rejected, votes against the CH and the IL and the L abstention.]] We also have the general vote on draft resolution No 315 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Recommends that the Government ensure more proximity policing. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS and the IL, votes against the CH, the PCP and the BE and abstentions of the PSD, the PAN and the L.]] Low to 1. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u380	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u381	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u382	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that we will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u383	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 316 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Recommends that the Government improve the data contained in the Annual Internal Security Report. [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PS, the PS, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the NAP and the L and votes against the CH.]] Low to 1. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u384	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u385	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u386	Mr. President, for a brief period in Bill No. 397 / XV / 1. I have announced the vote of the Free as abstention, but it is not, it is against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u387	The correction is recorded, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u388	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u389	Also to correct the points of vote, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u390	No, Mr President, it is not to correct the point of vote. I would like to say that, with regard to these two draft resolutions, we shall present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-15.u391	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We're getting to the end of our work. Our plenary meeting tomorrow is about the debate on sectoral policy with the Minister of the Presidency, followed by a second point by the vote on the Rules of Procedure. Good afternoon to all. The sitting is thus closed. [[It was 17 hours and 36 minutes.]]
