ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, Minister, we have quorum and all parliamentary groups are represented, so we will start our session. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the galleries to the public. As there is no record for reading, we turn to the agenda of today's sitting, which is part of the preparatory debate of the European Council, with the participation of Mr Prime Minister, under Article 4 ( a ). the Law of Monitoring, Appreciation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Union Construction Process. To open the debate, Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u2	Good afternoon, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The European Council has a broad agenda ahead of the summit with the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN ), but of course what will focus the Council's attention will be the energy and economic point. With regard to energy, the Energy Council is currently discussing three very important proposals. With regard to two of these proposals, it was already possible to reach consensus, but there is a third in respect of which this was not possible. But, as there is consensus that there is only consensus when there is consensus on everything, the two proposals that have already merited consensus are dependent on consensus on the third, which does not yet have it. Where is there already consensus? There is consensus on the operationalization of a joint platform for the acquisition of gas and also on the proposal for the simplification and agility of the licensing of renewable initiatives projects. There is still no consensus on the fundamental point, which has to do with setting a maximum limit on the price of gas, so that the price developments on the international market can be controlled. In addition to these three proposals which are under discussion, it is necessary to go further and, essentially, to review the entire pricing mechanism on the market, ending the marginalist fixing regime. Today, renewable energy technologies are already mature enough so that they do not have to support the setting of the marginal price, and we are pleased to see the Commission make a commitment to submit a proposal in the first quarter of next year. In any case, and as long as the proposal does not arise, it is debated and is not debated, it generates and does not generate consensus, it is absolutely essential that Portugal and Spain proceed, from now on, to the negotiations necessary for the extension of the Iberian solution until after May next year, since this mechanism is what has allowed to mitigate the impact of rising gas prices on the price of electricity and, from June 15 to November 30, has already saved around EUR 360 million in relation to the expenditure that would have existed without this mechanism. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The debate on energy is obviously inseparable from the debate on the economic situation and the inflation we are all facing. As always, answers at European level are essential for challenges at European level. In that sense, it also points out, in a very clear and ambitious way, the statement made by the nine countries in southern Europe, which was adopted a week ago in Alicante. And it is particularly important at a time when the United States adopted a provision on the reduction of inflation, which introduces factors of unfair competition and requires a response from Europe. As we have always said, in a pragmatic way and in the short term, we must make use of the availability that still exists within the next generation or, in other words, within the framework of each Member State's Recovery and Resilience Plans, so that we can have a comprehensive response from Europe to support its companies most exposed to rising energy costs. In the medium term, we see how interesting and we would like to know more in detail the proposal put forward by the President of the European Commission for the creation of a fund for European sovereignty. This idea of the European Commission seems to point to us in a good sense, i.e. to strengthen own budgetary capacities to finance common and strategic investments of the European Union as a whole, avoiding fragmentation of the internal market and differentiated dependence on the budgetary capacity of each Member State. In any case, this debate on the European Sovereignty Fund cannot ignore the debate that it is necessary to continue and deepen with regard to changes in the economic governance model of Europe. The proposal already submitted by the Commission with a view to new ways of reducing debt, respecting differentiation and with strategies as per each Member State, is clearly positive. In the positive sense there is also the identification that the fundamental criterion should be that of primary expenditure, which allows, on the one hand, not to be taken into account the evolution of expenditure due to the variation of interest rate and allows, on the other hand, an anticyclical adjustment, with the non-accounting of expenditure, such as expenditure on unemployment subsidies, thus enabling automatic stabilisers of the economy to function normally. [[P.S.'s applause.]] However, this reform, in order to be effective, cannot, as we have insisted, exclude the instrument of permanent stabilization, with the good results we know today of the application of the SURE(Support you the mitigate Employment Risks and Emergency) during the crisis of covid. We have only to say that, not being the permanent crises, the instrument is permanent, it has to be, because the crises are recurrent. On the other hand, we need to have a permanent common budgetary instrument, such as the Next Generation, which allows more than the mere correction of asymmetries, the mission entrusted to the Structural Funds. In summary, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that is what I would like to say about those who are the two fundamental points on the European Council agenda this week. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u3	We are now following the round of interventions by the different political parties. For the Socialist Party, Mr Rui Lage starts by using the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u4	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs Members: Today, in Europe, all roads or, in good rigour, all tubes and cables will give energy and, therefore, it is not surprising that at the next European Council there is a particular focus on the energy issues which Mr Prime Minister here has already enumerated. But the European Council's agenda is also part of the debate on the capacity of the European industrial sector to remain competitive and to be able to innovate and invest in future technologies. And here undoubtedly comes the subject of hydrogen, green hydrogen, decarbonized hydrogen. We know that we are moving to increasingly electrified economies, but electricity will not be enough to cover several energy needs, particularly in the heavy industry, in the chemical industry. It is estimated that in 2050 hydrogen can represent about 25 % of world energy and therefore there is a global race to hydrogen, with huge investments, to accelerate technological solutions that are not yet perfected. China leads the race, is the world's largest producer of hydrogen; the United States (United States of America) has just approved an anti-inflation package, with very robust tax benefits for the green hydrogen row; and obviously Europe cannot stay behind in this hydrogen geopolitics being drawn. At the warming of the Alicante Summit, the President of the European Commission stated that hydrogen is a factor of change in Europe and is a central part in the transition to carbon neutrality. In the past, with the governments of the Socialist Party, Portugal made avant-garde options, even more than reformists, in the field of renewables and, for this, obviously, had to overcome immobilism, skepticism and the pessimism of many voices,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u6	...that at the time they criticized the PS of adventurism. Well, we are now reaping the fruits of this adventurism. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in this reformist and transformative line—because whenever it is necessary to tear horizons to the future of the country, the PS is here —,... [[Mr André Ventura's laughs.]] ...I was wondering how Mr. Prime Minister sees Portugal's role in this hydrogen geopolitics.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u8	And back to the anti-inflation package of the United States of America, which I have already mentioned, the US has introduced tax benefits and state-of-the-art mount aid for, for example, the automotive sector, the electric cars produced in the American factories, and this is lighting up a debate here, in the Old Continent, about whether the EU should go to play, whether it should move forward with some kind of protectionist measures or whether it should continue to make a foothold in the free trade system which has so far been revenged. The truth is that this package of subsidies from the United States of America is good news for the world, because that means that the United States finally agreed to the need to move forward with the green transition, but this may not be such good news for the industry and the European economy. Since transatlantic relations are also part of the agenda of the next European Council, I would like to hear the Prime Minister on the Government's position in this regard. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u9	In order to intervene, even during the time of the Socialist Party, Mrs Nathalie Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u10	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs Members: This Council of the European Union has on its agenda a fundamental theme for Portugal, European democracy, an issue which concerns Europeans, especially by the proliferation of threats to democracy. the war of Putin's authoritarian and terrorist regime, which reminds us every day of what we can become when we open the hands of democracy, anti-democratic movements here within the European Union, the repeated scandals of corruption that discredit democratic parties and weaken the confidence of citizens in the political class, democracy in the European Union is under the eyes of those who do not want it and increasingly need our protection, Prime Minister. But how can we defend her? Thousands of European citizens answered that question, participating in the Conference on the Future of Europe, initiated under its excellent presidency of the Council, in the first half of 2021, and pointed out ways to reform democratic participation in the European Union. The results are interesting and reveal the desire for a more innovative, participatory democracy and, above all, that strengthens the sense of closeness with the citizens. Furthermore, in April the European Parliament adopted a report giving a voice to all these aspirations. Unfortunately, the Council seems to be far from the unanimity necessary to fulfil the aspirations revealed in this consultative process, unanimity which, curiously, was also widely criticised in this consultative process which recommends altering it to a qualified majority decision-making process. We are talking about democracy in Europe and, as you know, that is my origin and that is what I represent in this Chamber: the Portuguese in Europe. My election was unprecedented. In addition to being the first Lusodescendant, daughter of the Portuguese communities, to be elected to the Assembly of the Republic, I was also elected in an electoral act that was repeated, due to serious errors associated with the postal voting method and in which more than 150 000 votes were cancelled. I cannot forget and forget that the Portuguese in Europe, in this repetition, have clearly expressed their support for the Socialist Party, in order to ensure their constitutional rights to vote and see their vote counted. in this manifestation of interest, I was elected and I am here to represent and defend them. Therefore, in my mandate and in my conviction to want to strengthen democracy with Portuguese abroad, I want to defend the need for Portugal to support efforts in the Council of the European Union to approve the report of the European Parliament, including its provisions to facilitate electronic voting for European elections. This is one of the deepest aspirations of thousands of Portuguese people for Europe, many of whom would like to have exercised their right to vote without difficulty. There are several good examples and successful cases in Europe. I would therefore like to ask you, Prime Minister, what position the Government intends to adopt in the negotiation in the Council of the European Union on this subject, in defence of democracy and access to electronic voting. In conclusion, given the importance of our diaspora in Europe, I believe that Portugal must have a decisive role in this negotiation, mobilising the other Member States to adopt this report so important to modernise European democracy, corresponding to the expectations shared by the Conference on the Future of Europe, whether for Europeans living in Portugal, or for Portuguese living in the rest of Europe, at a time when both they and it are the most needed European democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u11	To speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, I begin by giving the floor to Mr Paulo Moniz.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u12	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs Members : We were surprised with sad news about one of the institutional pillars of Europe, the European Parliament. And here I begin by asking you about the presence of a Portuguese judge in the European Court of Auditors. As you know, your Government has often defended the preponderance and importance of Portuguese officials in European institutions. It appears that the European Court of Auditors has already had a Portuguese President, Mr Vitor Caldeira Counsellor, in three consecutive terms. He was subsequently President of the Court of Auditors, and was, by chance, informed by you, by telephone, of his non-reconstitution in office after criticising the Government's proposal to speed up public procurement at a time when the country was preparing to receive European funds. Mr Prime Minister, who does not deal well with independence, who demonstrates intolerance, who wants to limit power, should also not, by the way, have great interest in indicating who Portugal should be representing in the European Court of Auditors, so that our chair in that court is properly occupied and represented. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u13	I ask you when it starts the process of indicating our judge, because there are already two years there and he is not present. I am still talking to you at the energy summit and on the issue of energy. As I have said, it is one of the strengths of the next Council. It happens that we already realize that the gas pipeline, initially shared with gas and hydrogen, will be only hydrogen. It is a medium-term project, by 2030, and that will have its developments and wanted to focus my energy intervention on electrical interconnections. There are three electrical connections, as you well know: one that is in progress in the Gulf of Biscay, but whose point of particular situation is not known — the Spanish Minister of Energy said she knew it was in progress, but did not know when it was its entry into operation — and there are two very important, pending interconnections through the Pyrenees. There was the tripartite meeting at which Mr Prime Minister participated, with the presence of the President of the Commission, and what I ask you is, in concrete and objective terms, what commitments have been made. What are the dates for early projects? What funding has been considered since, as seen, there have already been commitments for the financing of the pipeline for hydrogen? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u14	With regard to this matter of electricity supply, I would also like to remind you that Portugal is essential to diversify its interconnections. I remember that the then Secretary of State for Energy, Jorge Seguro Sanches, said periodically that in 2018 our connection to Morocco would be operational. The latest information from the National Energy Network on this matter is that it has no plan on the table in this regard. I ask you whether or not you will resume the diversification of supply through this structuring project. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u15	Mr Sérgio Marques now speaks, even in the time of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u16	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs Members: I will only talk about the war in Ukraine, increasingly cruel and barbaric. I do this to counter a tendency of habit, indifference and insensitivity that the more than nine months of war are already causing. I also do so to respond to Pope Francis' appeal, when he urges us not to let our hearts and minds become disturbed by the repetition of horror images and war barbaria. Pope Francis, with the greatest constancy, did not hesitate to compare the effects of war on Ukraine with the terrible genocide of the Holodomor. In fact, Putin, defeated in the battlefield, has been fulfilling a cowardly and criminal strategy in recent weeks: directly attacking the Ukrainian people, destroying the infrastructures that guarantee people's survival: electricity, gas, water, etc. Stalin, in 1932, with Holodomer, condemned Ukrainians to death by hunger; today Putin condemns them to death by cold. in this context, Prime Minister, I cannot but regard his latest statements on Ukraine as a manifestation of any such indifference and insensitivity. So, on Ukraine, is there nothing more to say than that the European Union does not have budgetary and institutional conditions to meet enlargement? We can obviously debate this issue, I can even understand your reasons, but the opportunity could not have been worse. When Putin uses all means to destroy Ukraine, his statements, Prime Minister, are the opposite of the message of solidarity which, from the western end of Europe, should have sent to the Ukrainian people, which gives us the greatest example of courage and resilience. Despite all the suffering that Putin inflicts upon them and all the attempts to break their enemy strength, the Ukrainians resist and maintain a heroic struggle against the oppressor, in defense of their independence and their choice to be the eastern door of Europe. And we Western, and we Europeans, will continue to resist, maintaining, at any cost, an unbreakable bond of solidarity with Ukraine? Yes, because without our military, financial, humanitarian and political support, Ukraine will not resist nor will it have the means to establish a minimally advantageous position to negotiate a peace agreement guaranteeing its territorial integrity. Mr Prime Minister, this is what the PSD expects of the next European Council : that all European aid to Ukraine can be equalised and strengthened. And on the political level, Ukraine must be reaffirmed support for its legitimate European option, which is being paid with much blood and suffering, which makes it a creditor of special care and treatment by the European Union. Will you, Prime Minister, raise your voice at the European Council to advocate this path? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u17	In order to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party, Mr Ventura has now spoken.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u18	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members: The first question I ask you has to do with Europe, but it is not directly connected with Europe. It has to do with the Minister who represents us in Europe and in foreign affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u19	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u20	Mr Prime Minister knows that, at the time we speak, and during the last few days, a number of suspicions have been raised about the coverage that his minister has given to various defence leaders, but above all to the former Director-General for National Defence Resources. His Minister for Foreign Affairs was questioned by me in this Parliament about whether there was anything to be said about the Court of Auditors audit, which at the time pointed out very serious suspicions in the conduct of some elements of defence. He was questioned about this, in committee, and said that everything had been safeguarded, that there was no reason to distrust that leader and others. The episodes of the last few days leave us no longer at ease. The arrest of Alberto Coelho, like others, throw on the defense a huge contempt...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u21	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u22	... because of your Foreign Minister. And Mr Prime Minister — who was indeed three or fourfold cautious about this — did not pass this behaviour on to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who insisted here in Parliament, as can be consulted in the minutes of the Committee on National Defence and the debate in plenary, sometimes without account, that nothing was to be pointed out, that everything was safeguarded, that everything had been done in accordance with the plan. Yesterday in Brussels, Mr Minister, had a good opportunity to give a final explanation on this case. He didn't. Therefore, Prime Minister, there is no other solution but to ask you, as Prime Minister and leader of the government, you can maintain your confidence in your Minister for Foreign Affairs, when apparently many of your own party do not have it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u24	And it was important to know whether Minister João Cravinho has the conditions to continue or whether we are going to attend another case « Miguel Alves », day after day, week after week, until the minister realizes that he no longer has the conditions and decides to leave.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u26	Mr. Prime Minister made an announcement again. I have heard you speak Spanish in Spain, with Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez and President Emmanuel Macron, in fact, clearly and perceptibly, I have not seen the difference — and I welcome you therefore... unlike your predecessor, who frightened us to speak Spanish, Mr Prime Minister is not so bad about this. I heard that this energy corridor was important and valued Portugal, Spain and France. Mr. Prime Minister, this energy corridor is particularly worth Spain. Above all, it is the terminals of Barcelona and Valencia that will win this green energy corridor. What you achieved with this agreement was to devalue Sines...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u27	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u28	... and devalue a strategic added value of Portugal. In fact, as for this gas or hydrogen pipeline—or in a month of hydrogen and in the other gas, it is changing! — we still do not know how it will be financed and whether or not the Portuguese will have any more costs with it. We know that you have a trace which has been plunged by the Portuguese Environment Agency and that it will have to be reconfigured. All this is a political communication disaster, but above all a political decision-making disaster that was important that I could explain: after all, what advantage will the Portuguese have in this matter?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u30	I also take advantage of Mr Prime Minister to ask you about two other matters. The first is about the arrest of the Greek socialist, Vice-President of the European Parliament. We have heard the President of the European Commission say that he will develop mechanisms for such cases not to happen again, but it was important that the Council also issued specific and institutional guidelines on this matter. The image of money bags at home of a Euro MP or a Euro MP, whether it is a party, while the decision of the Catar World was influenced, is a shame for all parties and for all the countries of Europe. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It was important that the Prime Minister, as a representative of the Portuguese Government, convey this image of insistence that the European institutions are not above the law and also have strict criteria in this regard. Finally, Mr Prime Minister, because we have heard PS and PSD—and well—insurrection against Russia's violent and barbarous action in Ukraine, I would like to point out to you that the European Parliament and several parliaments in eastern Europe have come forward with a draft resolution so that Russia is officially designated by the Portuguese State as a sponsor of terrorism.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u32	This has been the case in the European Parliament, and this has been the case in several countries in the east and the centre of Europe. And, more than in words, it is with this that we will see whether the government and the PSD are willing or not to move from words to acts,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u34	... and to which this Parliament assumes that the Government of Vladimir Putin, the Russian state, at present, is a parent State, sponsor of terrorism and that does not take place in international order. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u35	To speak on behalf of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, Mr Bernardo Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u36	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members: I begin by saying that the current model of debate does not lead to any discussion and therefore I hope that,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u37	Sit down, sit down!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u38	... in the amendment to the Rules of Procedure, this debate is changed to a question and answer model. It is that, once again, each one asks the questions he wants and, in the end, the Prime Minister answers whatever he wants and we do not have any reply. We will also propose another amendment — as many other national parliaments do — in order for the Government to have, on the previous day, deliver the official positions it will have in the European Council, because we do not currently know what the positions defended by the government are.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u40	In the last debate — which was another example of this — I asked five or six questions and Mr Prime Minister did not answer any questions, and that is why, unfortunately, I am going to start by repeating some of the questions already raised — which, alone, is already despicable for Parliament. On the fourth point on the agenda, security and defence, and on the sixth, external relations, then I begin by repeating three questions. First of all, in the last year, in the new Strategic compass, which will also be on the agenda, the European Union basically defined China as a systemic rival, while the Prime Minister called for more cooperation with China. I would therefore like to know if you disagree with this European ranking of China as a systemic rival. I note that in his speech he has been able to declare as unfair competition the United States proposal, but over the years China has done the same repeatedly and I have never heard him say the same. Secondly, he also spoke of consensus. I repeat again that almost all countries have already suspended extradition agreements with Hong Kong, only Portugal is missing. So, what is missing in order to have this consensus, Prime Minister? Portugal is the only thing missing.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u41	Let's see if he answers this time!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u42	Third, three days ago, I saw a tweet of his celebrating International Human Rights Day. All right! I would like to ask you a question about Iran — the Minister has even been on the alert — because we are a year and a half ago trying to find out the answer. Iran has been appointed to the Commission on the Status of Women, of the UN (United Nations ) — a country that is constantly violating the rights of women to be appointed to this international body is only ridiculous! — and the question is this: how did Portugal vote? You voted in favour of Iran? Yes or no? We've been trying to figure it out for a year and a half.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u43	We don't know yet!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u44	on a fourth point, concerning point three of the energy agenda, already discussed today, concerning the third pipeline between Portugal and Spain, I would like to know how the financing of EUR 350 million will take place. Will it be via State budget or fares? And where? What is the Government's proposal for the part or percentage financed by European funds? Finally, in conclusion, in 2020, Mr Prime Minister visited Hungary and said – as is widely known – that the rule of law should not be a criterion for European funds, but yesterday the Council of the European Union decided under the conditionality mechanism to suspend part of the European funds to Hungary. I would therefore like to know whether it agrees with that decision or whether it still maintains its 2020 position. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u45	To speak on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister : at this plenary session, our first word is, of course, for the people, the workers, the small entrepreneurs and the producers who have suffered the consequences, of enormous gravity, of these storms that have fallen on our country in recent days and in recent hours, with the flooding that is taking place. We want to convey our solidarity here with those who face these difficulties, these losses and these threats, and our greeting to the men and women of the relief and civil protection structures. We also want to ask the Prime Minister whether or not the Government considers any initiative or initiative to mobilize resources and means to support and address the victims of these fillies, particularly with the European Union Solidarity Fund. I wonder if there are initiatives that can already be considered in this context, in this more immediate response. As for the issues on the agenda for the European Council, I wanted to ask a question about economic governance. The Government of Portugal has been acting for months or years to intervene in the Council for a reform of economic governance and budgetary rules, for more flexibility and for this draconian vision of public accounts not to be maintained, the results of which are in view and have been seen in 2011 and 2015. Now, the question is this: is the result of this not to account for the expenditure of the unemployment fund on the accounts for the deficit? There is no position here, in the document which triggered this European Commission process, which is basically a breach of the German position, in any event contrary to what the Portuguese Government has advocated, with a greater focus on public spending, more police and a total lack of response to the problems that are being identified there and what is needed to ensure, in the context of the political options? As far as energy issues are concerned, the measures that have been suffered... forgive, followed in the European Union — well suffered are! — with regard to this matter, and even this powerful Iberian mechanism, are far from responding to the real dimension and gravity of the problem. The millions of euros of savings that Mr Prime Minister refers to are mainly in the wholesale market and then what people face is an unbearable invoice, with the economic groups amassing profits of billions of euros. One cannot ignore the unmistakable need to effectively regulate prices and prevent their escalation while discussing scenarios for 2030 - 2050. Will you continue on this path of doing everything so as not to let it touch the interests of the economic power, sacrificing the national interest and the living conditions of the people? Finally, on the issue of security of supply, we must not fail to ask this question: what is done of the results of the research announced on the explosion that destroyed the Nord Stream pipeline in Germany's supply? The last time we heard about it was when a Member of the European Parliament, former Minister for Foreign Affairs of Poland, thanked the United States for that operation. Then they announced a very rigorous investigation and never again talked about it. No information, Prime Minister? Or is there any information you can't know? In fact, with the situation that continues to develop and worsen in Eastern Europe, with the misfortune that is happening in Ukraine today, the question is this: does the government believe that there is a military solution to what is happening?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u47	No, let them in! He's letting them invade!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u48	Is there a military solution? What space is left for diplomacy right now? What role should diplomacy play at the moment? The European Union has already shown that it considers that the solution is a military solution; this, with more wars, more missiles and more bombs goes to place. I wonder if the government agrees with that. We just don't agree! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u49	If Russia got out of there it would be easier!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u50	To speak on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister : It will be very clear that Qatar has used this global competition to wash your image, stained by successive human rights violations. Today, there are criminal consequences of this attempt — the arrest of the Vice-President of the European Parliament is one of these criminal consequences — but there are also political consequences to be withdrawn. We maintain our position that it is regrettable that Portugal has participated in the process of legitimizing the Qatari regime with official presences, in particular the Prime Minister, but also through the opposition of PS and PSD Euro MPs to condemnations of human rights violations voted in the European Parliament. Secondly, this case also reminds us that the European institutions, which decide with very little scrutiny, are not immune to corruption, quite the contrary. This is a very shocking case, but it must be said that the lobby has become a business in the European Parliament and in the European Commission. There are hundreds of former Members working today in the lobby business. We also have other examples, such as the incomprehensible decision to put a fossil company shareholder as advisor to the European Commission for environmental policies; and there are doubts about the relationship between the European Commission and the pharmaceuticals that provided vaccines to Europe. So, Prime Minister, I ask you: when we have a maximum risk of corruption and a minimum vote, what will you defend in the European Council on this matter? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u52	To intervene, even in the time allocated to the Left Block, Mr José Soeiro now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister : The government in Europe has a position on the digital platforms that is different from the position in Portugal. The European Commission has proposed a directive on platform work which is a very positive starting point for this phenomenon. unlike the Portuguese Government, which has invented a unique solution in the world for work on platforms where the intermediary releases the platforms of work responsibilities, the Commission proposal assumes that, between the worker and the platform, there is a working relationship, a contract with everything that is now denied to drivers and scams — working hours, minimum wages, accident insurance paid by the company, holidays, etc. The proposal for a European directive does not have this figure, which Portugal has invented from the intermediary. It regulates, therefore, a relationship of two — the platform and the worker — and not of three, contrary to what happens here. Furthermore, court decisions in Europe, more than 200, have come to recognize this relationship of two, a working relationship. Last Thursday, the Council of the European Union met with the Ministers for Labour and the Czech Presidency tried to weaken and disfigure the Commission's proposal by proposing to make it difficult to assume labour and introduce the figure of the intermediary. Now, Portugal, by the voice of Minister Ana Mendes Godinho, voted against the proposal put forward by the Czech Presidency. Spain has also done so, and the Czech proposal has not passed. It was a good position and good news for the workers of the platforms. Yesterday, in the European Parliament, there was also a discussion in which the European Commission's proposal was adopted, with the amendments of a socialist rapporteur, Elisabetta Gualmini, which also does not include the figure of the intermediary, and very well because not including the figure of the intermediary means not giving in to the lobby of multinationals, who thus sought to rid themselves of their responsibilities. In contrast to the proposal of the European Commission and the position of the European Parliament, the proposal put forward by the Government and the Socialist Party in this Parliament insists on the role of the intermediary. The proposal for a directive is against the figure of the intermediary; the coordinators of the Green Paper on the Future of Work, appointed by the Government, are against the figure of the intermediary; the Working Conditions Authority came to this Parliament saying it was against the figure of the intermediary; in October 2021, the Prime Minister presented a proposal, which was published in the Bulletin of Labour and Employment, which did not foresee the figure of the intermediary, and therefore I assume that the Prime Minister was against this figure. Only the lobby of multinationals is that it is in favor of the intermediary's figure. So, Mr Prime Minister, I ask you: do you agree with the European Commission's proposal for a directive? Do you agree with the position taken by the Minister of Labour? Does it agree with the decision of the European Parliament which approved yesterday a regulation of work on platforms which does not have this third entity, this figure of the intermediary? If you agree, how is it possible here not to be consistent with this position? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u54	To speak on behalf of the NAP, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, Minister : The first question I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, is about the difficult context that we live in Portugal, because of the fullness, particularly in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon. We know that there are costs to be accounted for, but we also know that, at this time, families and traders already have their lives turned out of the bird. Without prejudice to the total accounting of costs, there are more mechanisms beyond nationals, in particular that of the European Union Solidarity Fund, which can be requested by Portugal. So I ask you whether, like other countries, and as in 2017 and 2018, this issue will be put before the European Council. The second question I would like to ask you concerns the pipeline called "BarMar". This pipeline, as we know, is included in the so-called 'new European green corridor' and yet in the first phase it will serve to transport fossil gas. However, as several non-governmental organisations of the environment have already warned us, this raises some questions, namely the possibility of being included in the REPowerEU programme or even in line with the European Ecological Pact. Therefore, Prime Minister, it is important to understand why this option does not only contain economic costs in some way not yet fully quantified—in particular in the transition to green hydrogen—and it will also affect biodiversity areas. Before you tell us that it is not in Portugal, we cannot forget that the Gulf of León has a biodiversity that is the richest in the Mediterranean and, being within this solution, Portugal also has a duty to guard biodiversity. The essential is to understand why this option, to the detriment of, for example, the expansion of the electrical network or even the capture of renewable energy. We still have no surplus to then be able to transport — if we are ever going to have a real surplus — and it is therefore important to understand why this option is. Finally, our question is about the ecocidal situation in Russia. We must not forget that, as a result of this war, there have already been a large number of elements of biodiversity that have ended up disappearing. We speak of 6 million wild animals killed throughout the Ukrainian territory, of 50 000 dolphins killed in the Black Sea,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u56	What about people? How many?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u57	... of thousands of hectares of fertile soils contaminated with harmful substances and millions of hectares of burning forest, so, in addition to the tragedy that has plagued the Ukrainian population, there is also an ecocidal crime that the Ukrainian people have already claimed. So I ask you whether Portugal is going to defend this assessment by the European Council that Ukraine is asking, from the point of view of the environmental impact of the war, to add, of course, to the necessary socio-economic and humanitarian recovery that the country lacks.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u58	I should like to inform you that the campaign has begun to play since we are going to vote, after this debate has been concluded, and it is therefore to call the ladies and gentlemen. Members in the Chamber. To speak on behalf of the Free Party, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u59	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr Prime Minister, Dear colleagues : We are not mistaken. In the agenda, energy may be the relations between the European Union and ASEAN, but what the Prime Minister and his counterparts are going to talk about outside the meetings is the corruption scandal in the European Parliament — and it is good to do so. It is good that this is the subject of debate and that everyone is aware of the credibility that the European Parliament has gained decades and has won well, because the resolutions of the European Parliament on human rights, the rule of law and anti-corruption are always the most advanced and the most moving in the regimes of third countries — and that is why they, by the way, intend to infiltrate the European institutions, so that these resolutions are less moving. If they were irrelevant, no one would worry. This credibility, which you have gained during decades of hard work in the European Parliament — your work, also my work, the work of thousands of Members of the European Parliament — cannot be lost overnight. [[CH protests.]] There are two ways to discuss at the European Council. One is that of some of your counterparts— whose name I'm not going to mention because there are banks that are soon very nervous, because they are their corrupt estimates—,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u60	Look at the weather!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u61	... that even last week blocked the money for Ukraine, but allowed European funds to pass on to your son-in-law, which is one of the richest in your country. [[CH protests.]] And contrary to what they think, it is not « steal, but it does », because the economy of that country will grow four times less than Portuguese — inflation is 22 % and food inflation is 45 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u62	Look at the weather!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u63	They welcome with open arms what has happened because it is a way of taking advantage of the European Parliament's loss of credibility. There is another way to discuss the problem, which is a serious way of looking forward and going through two essential elements. First, the European Union needs an own research agency. We cannot be dependent on the Belgian police to investigate a case like this, because it could not investigate and have other priorities. The second aspect is that these crimes — proven to be crimes — are not Greek, Italian or Belgian crimes, are European crimes. They are what, in other legal entities, would be considered federal crimes and, therefore, of course, have to have an equal criminal framework. What has happened in the past, and I remember similar cases, even though the same facts have been proved, was one of the defendants to take a prison sentence which is the one which, according to national law, must catch and another must not catch any, because crime is not defined in their national law.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u64	No time limit? It's out of time!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u65	Therefore, we have no illusions, the European Union decides for a part of the world; it is a regulatory superpower and it decides for an internal market of 500 million consumers.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u66	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u67	I had to finish a long time ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u68	Lobbies are on top of this, external actors are on top of it, so of course we cannot look innocently at what is happening in Brussels. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u69	Thank you very much, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u70	It is essential to know the position of the Portuguese Government on this subject, by what means and by what proposals. [[CH protests.]] Mr President, I have already finished, but I want to say that one thing is apart, that they are regiments, and another thing is simply to create a cloud of decibels that prevents us from hearing what we ourselves say! It's not possible. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] [[CH protests.]] I therefore call on the Bureau to conduct the order of business, because, in my view, it is also the responsibility of the Bureau to intervene when they are no longer apart, but only attempts to prevent anyone from speaking, because it is not, in fact, practical or possible to intervene in these terms.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u71	Mr Pedro Pinto asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u72	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u73	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u74	Mr President, it is no longer the first, nor the second, nor the third, nor the tenth time... [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u75	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u76	...that Mr. Rui Tavares triples his time...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u77	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u78	... without being called to the attention of the table, and then comes to complain!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u79	It's true, just look at the picture.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u80	The Free has one minute, he spoke three and a half minutes...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u81	He's got one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u82	Even if I have one-and-a-half of them spoke twice, and it's not the first time, neither the second, nor the third time! I don't know if Mr. Freeman has any privilege to always vote at the side of the Socialist Party,... [[Congrats from the CH.]] ...but he's not a parliamentary group yet. One day it may come to pass, but as long as it doesn't have to, more or less, fulfill the time. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u83	Mr President, as you can see, looking at the table, the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival itself also benefits regularly from time... [[CH protests.]] ...to conclude your reasoning. I have also tried to distribute this additional time in a balanced way. Of course, at the very least the speaker who is in the use of the word better conditions will have to conclude his reasoning in the time it is intended for him. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, whenever I check that someone — Members or even a parliamentary group — is trying, through constant and systematic interruptions, to prevent others from speaking, I will use my ability to direct the work to ensure that the other party has the right to make the interventions to which it is entitled. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With the permission of all, to close the debate, you will have the floor of Mr. Prime Minister. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Rui Lage, then accompanied by Mr. André Ventura, Paulo Moniz and Inês de Sousa Real, expressed his concern about the theme of the green corridor of energy. First of all, to make it clear, what was at stake at the moment was to unlock the « gas » connection, since the electrical connections are recognized as projects of common interest, they are calendared, they are in project, they are in work and therefore they were not in doubt. They are not in doubt and will not be in doubt. With regard to the « gas » connection, there was indeed a blockade of France and an alternative route was found which, in order to be financed under the European interconnection facility, must be dedicated exclusively to green hydrogen. It is a project that interests Portugal, even more than gas, since in the case of gas we would simply be importers and re-exporters—we would always be less importers than Spain, which alone has seven regasification points, while we have a regasification point—while in the case of green hydrogen we can import and, above all, we can produce and export; that is, we do not re-export, we export what we produce. The project that we will present the funding has a branch that will connect the Figueira da Foz to Celorico da Beira and Celorico da Beira to the border with Spain, which, in turn, will present the link from the border to Zamora and then the complementary section from Barcelona to Marseille.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u85	How much will it cost?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u86	As far as it is going to cost, it is around EUR 360 million and 50 % is financed by the European facility mechanism. Mrs Nathalie Oliveira asked about the electronic vote, which is obviously a technological added value for speeding up the vote. This, provided that three conditions are verified: firstly, the guarantee of cybersecurity; secondly, the personality of the vote; and thirdly, the privacy of the vote. These are three fundamental guarantees for the reliability of electronic voting. to Mr Sérgio Marques, who asked about Ukraine, said that Portugal was unequivocally condemning from the first hour the invasion of Ukraine by Russia. I believe that Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, then Mr. Minister for Foreign Affairs, made the official condemnation by the Portuguese State between 4 and 5 hours in the morning and 9 o'clock in the morning was the meeting of the Superior Council of National Defence, at my request and by call from the President of the Republic. Therefore, from the first hour that we have an unequivocal position and have given unequivocal and sustained support to Ukraine, from a humanitarian point of view, from a financial and military point of view, either with non-lethal material or with lethal material. With Ukraine we are not limited to being solidarity, we are solidarity with Ukraine and we are true with Ukraine. And when we invite someone to our home we should be careful to be able to welcome those we invite. That is certainly what you do at home, and that is what the European Union should do when it calls on third countries to join. Yes, third countries, as the European Union often repeats, must meet the Copenhagen criteria — and we must be demanding in meeting these criteria — but it is also essential that the European Union assess the criteria that it has to accept those who invite it to integrate it. What we really have to say to ourselves, indeed to the European Union at the moment when the Ukrainians, the Georgians, the Moldovans — all the countries of the Western Balkans — have their prospect of future integration into the recognised European Union, is that the European Union must adapt its institutions and budgetary architecture in order to receive, in a positive and mutually beneficial way, the new candidate countries. This is to speak truth, the rest is a vocal solidarity which, after that, has no translation into reality. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Bruno Dias, on behalf of Ukraine, asked whether there was a military solution. Mr President, there is never a military solution to any problem and that is why, since the first hour, the Portuguese Communist Party should have refused the military solution that Russia adopted when invading Ukraine. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The gentlemen. Mr Ventura, Mariana Mortágua and Rui Tavares worry about corruption in the European Union — and well! It is something that should concern us all, whether in Portugal, Germany, Switzerland, or the European Union. Portugal is part of the European Union Convention to Combat Corruption, it is part of the other Member States of the European Union, of the Council of Europe Conventions to Combat Corruption and the European Union adopted — and I am very proud - to have contributed to it - to include the fight against the crime of corruption as the subject of the European arrest warrant. Yes, we must fight and I want to support the unequivocal way in which President Metsola has adopted on this unfortunate case which has now been known. On the question of Hungary — finally, Hong Kong and Iran, clearly are not part of the geography of Europe — it is very important to take into account the following: what is currently being discussed is whether or not Hungary is applying the conditionality mechanism. It was approved simultaneously with the NextGeneration, obviously unanimously, and therefore also with the vote of Portugal, so its question is only a few years out of date. Mr Bruno Dias and Mrs Inês de Sousa Real were also concerned about the implementation of the European Union social fund. Portugal has set up the European Union Solidarity Fund whenever the requirements for doing so have been met. However, the first requirement is to know the estimated damage and therefore it is not possible to implement the European Union Solidarity Fund without pre-setting the amount of damage. As you know, on Thursday, the Presidency Minister met with the chamber presidents of the most affected municipalities of the Lisbon Metropolitan Area in order to remove the damage, to verify what the national support mechanisms are and what the possible support mechanisms of the European Union are if these requirements are met.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u87	So the answer is "yes"? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u88	The answer is that we will act on it if and when the assumptions are checked, of course! Excuse me, Mr, but will we not use it by the head of someone who is able to make use of the European Union Solidarity Fund?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u89	Don't get angry, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u90	I'm sorry about that, but it's such a meaningless question that I didn't really understand that that was the question. [[Mr André Ventura's laughs.]] Well, as far as economic governance in Europe is concerned, yes, we have said and repeated, and we will continue to repeat and to say until necessary, that we have to have a new design of economic governance in Europe. The Commission's proposal is a first step, and an important first step, which allows us to say: first, that instead of a blind rule of debt reduction of 1 / 20 each year is designed, country by country, according to the capacity and needs of each one, a programme of reduction of its own life; and secondly, that the essential criterion becomes that of net expenditure. Now, the net expenditure has two advantages. First, do not account for something that we do not control, which is the change in debt cost depending on the evolution of debt interest. Secondly, it does not account for such expenditure as those resulting from unemployment subsidies, which allows — and should not be underestimated — that automatic stabilisers can operate in the event of an economic crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u91	Mr. Prime Minister, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u92	I shall try to conclude, Mr President. As I have had the opportunity to say, these proposals do not go without other fundamental issues for the model of new economic governance in Europe, such as the completion of the banking union ; we have a true union of capital; we have a permanent macroeconomic stabilization mechanism; and we have a permanent own budgetary capacity that will enable us, in particular, to respond to the competitiveness needs of the European industry. As regards energy issues, as you know, the ESRB will fix the prices of the regulated market this week, and there was a very strong intervention, in particular the State budget, to support both the setting of gas prices and electricity prices.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u93	What about Minister João Cravinho?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u94	Finally, Mr President, allow me to reply to Mr José Moura Soeiro, on the question of platforms, first of all, the position of the Portuguese Government stems from the proposal for a law on the dignified work agenda, which he presented here. Secondly, the position of the Portuguese Government was obviously expressed by the Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security who, when speaking to the Council of Ministers of Labour of the European Union, does not speak on his own behalf, but on behalf of the Portuguese Government. [[Protests by members of BE Catarina Martins and José Moura Soeiro.]] As far as I know, what is under discussion, in the field of specialty, in the Assembly of the Republic, is not what was under discussion in the Czech proposal. What was at stake in the Czech proposal was to decharacterise the relationship between the driver and the other entity as having a working nature, and that is what Portugal, Spain, Belgium and Denmark blocked. What is under discussion in the Assembly of the Republic is not the decharacterization of the working nature of the relationship, it is characterizing with whom is established the working nature. I am not a Member of Parliament and therefore I do not want to take part in the debate on the speciality, but there is one thing which is clear to me: there can be no wording corresponding to the position of the Government, the Government's programme in this House of the Republic and the draft law that the Government has tabled in this House of the Republic which decharacterises the working nature of the relationship. I admit that, technically, it strengthens the protection of this work nature, providing that this nature is maintained even if there is an intermediary between the driver and the platform and, in this circumstances, there is a solidarity responsibility of the platform and the intermediary for its driver worker. I cannot, of course, as Prime Minister, intervene in the discussion in the specialty, but, if this is the meaning, I can, as a jurist, understand this concern. If the concern is the appreciation of the intermediary's figure to devalue the platform position as a lawyer, I understand what is written but politically disagreed, it does not correspond to what is stated in the Government's Programme or to the meaning of the proposed law presented here by the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u95	Thank you, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u96	I conclude, Mr. President. I hope that the honourable Member, who has so criticized the Government's bill, will be able to defend his true spirit. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u97	Having concluded this agenda item, we are going to say goodbye to the Prime Minister and to the Deputy Minister and Parliament, and we will continue our work. I was presented, after your approval, this morning, with the opinion of 1. the Commission on the appeal submitted by the PSD Parliamentary Group of my decision not to admit its draft resolution No 311/XV/1. a ( PSD ) — proposes the conduct of a referendum on the non-punitability of death assisted medicine when practiced or assisted by health professionals by the decision of the person himself, greater, whose will is current and repeated, serious, free and informed, in situations of suffering of great intensity, with definitive injury of extreme gravity or serious and incurable disease. The opinion was distributed by all Mrs. Members and all parliamentary groups agreed that the appeal should now be voted on. So we're going to start the quorum verification period. Then there will be a period for interventions by those who intend to do so and then we will vote on the appeal. The Bureau is well aware that a number of Mrs. Members may not be present for reasons which are strange to them, from closed airports to roads to roads but we have quorum to proceed to this vote and thus comply with the Rules of Procedure. I request the services to initiate the registration period for quorum verification. [[Pause.]] I'm asking the ladies. Members who proceed to the register. [[Pause.]] I wonder if any Member or Member has not been able to register. [[Pause.]] I would therefore ask the services to advertise the result of the quorum verification. [[Pause.]] We have quorum.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u98	Mr. President, I'm sorry, but I couldn't sign up.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u99	It is recorded, and the same is true of Mr Luís Capoulas Santos who has just signed up for the Bureau. The Rules of Procedure determine that the opinion is read. I believe that we have fulfilled this by reading only the final part of the opinion I shall read myself and that it is the following: « Unconstitutionality is clear and manifest, so, in terms of regulations, it is not right for the PSD Parliamentary Group. The only outcome arising from the Constitution, the law and the case law is that the draft resolution No 311 / XV / 1 was not admitted. a ( PSD ). In short, the formal eligibility requirements laid down in the Constitution are not met. Do not keep on seeking. ” A period is now open for the parliamentary groups to intervene, if they wish. For the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Joaquim Pinto Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We reiterate our absolute conviction about the constitutionality of the draft resolution presented by the PSD concerning the referendum on euthanasia. And allow me to make a very brief resumption of our argument that there is clearly no repetition of the same initiative in the same legislative session. Firstly, because there is no subjective identity—we are talking about different political parties. Secondly, because there is no objective or material identity—because the proposals are material and substantially different. And thirdly, because the prescriptive effect of each of the proposals, whether that of the Arrival of July or that of the PSD, is currently also differentiated. Therefore, we are of the understanding that the Portuguese people should have been voiced to decide in consciousness on this matter which is, indeed, the individual consciousness of each Portuguese person. I must also say that the decision of 1. the Commission is on a standstill of the Constitutional Court, which has been issued in respect of two identical proposals — the same! — presented at the same legislative session by the same political party with regard to the voluntary interruption of pregnancy. These two questions were exactly the same: objective, material and substantially equal and, so as not to be doubted, I will read them. The first question was: "Do you agree with the decriminalization of the voluntary interruption of pregnancy if, by choice of the woman, in the first 10 weeks, in legally authorized health establishment? The second question was: "Do you agree that the abortion performed during the first 10 weeks of pregnancy, with the consent of the woman, no longer constitutes a crime? Do not keep on seeking. ” The difference was to replace « abortion» by « voluntary termination of pregnancy ». It was on these two concrete issues — the same! — the Constitutional Court has delivered its opinion. Finally, Mr President, to conclude, let me say that today we have had a very significant and enormous political reading. It is that the main party that soon jumped, in the first instance, to defend the unconstitutionality of the PSD resolution project today at the head of 1. the Commission abstained — abstained!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u101	It was like the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u102	I can only draw a conclusion: either it was a hijacket at the convenience marriage with the Socialist Party or it was clearly an act of repentance from that same party, the Arrival! [[PSD applause.]] And there is a substantive reason: or it is indeed the shame of the coming from, in this concrete circumstance, to be allied with the Socialist Party or, of course, is a feeling of shame not to give the Portuguese people a voice. [[PSD applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u103	Mr. André Ventura, you have the floor to arrive.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u104	Mr President: The arrival would not take part in this procedure, but given the kind words of our colleague from the PSD, he cannot fail to make an analysis. I'm going to repeat for the thousandth time, to see if, finally, what we're talking about is clear as water. The arrival brought a proposal for a referendum to this House in June. on that day, Mr. President, Mr. Members, the news was this, for the country to hear: Arrival proposes reference to euthanasia; PSD Members press Mota Pinto with reference to euthanasia. But Rio said: « There is a referendum on a proposal, we will give freedom of vote». You guys don't play with me. We can play with a lot now, this has been said by your leader!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u105	And how did we vote? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u106	Let's see if we understand: it's here that's the same leader, it's not another, I repeat, it's the same! In your case, it's the same party, it's the same Members, but they say one thing in June and another now. Let's see if we understand each other. Your colleague, Mrs Paula Cardoso, said that this question had neither feet nor heads, but it is curious that 50 PSD Members voted in favour. Sir, I don't bury myself! But the gentlemen, with things like these, discover themselves better than anyone! 50 Members voted in favour! They're here, I could identify them one by one, it's 50, I could say the names, the faces, see the smiles, with which they voted in favour of our proposal in June. It was so easy! [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PSD Members' laughs.]] As to saying that there is no subjective identity. Mr President, we also play our capacity as jurists here. It is clear at the Constitutional Court many years ago—it is not now! — in the constitutional doctrine of Gomes Canotilho, Vital Moreira and others — it is not worth passing by the names of all of us now that the subjective identity was never the criterion of Article 167. the Constitution.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u107	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u108	That's right, I'm sorry! Since the Constitutional Commission, since 1985, subjective identity has not been a criterion. We can say « I wanted it to be», but I also wanted the PS not to have an absolute majority, but it has! Life is like that. You can say: "The question is not the same! But it is also clear, in the judgment you referred, that the question does not have to be the same. It's clear as water!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u109	So why did you abstain today?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u110	We abstained in the vote on the opinion that was presented, do not confuse things! The PS made an opinion, and where we abstained was in the opinion, it was nothing else. So don't confuse things. Finally, Mr. Member, even your old leader said on television yesterday that it was a huge trick that you all committed! We can all get screwed. Now, don't throw the blame on the finish, take it! [[Congrats from the CH.]] I will finish, Mr. President. Even your former leader, Dr. Luís Marques Mendes, said on TV that it was a huge PSD bullshit. Is it up to anyone to propose a referendum at the end of the legislative process when the committee was working and there had already been discussion on the formulation of the law? Is that where we're going to propose a referendum? But everything's crazy, everything's crazy? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u111	Mr. Deputies, pay attention to the words.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u112	I'm sorry, Mr. President, and I'll finish. Sir, we can all be wrong. The incoming Parliamentary Group has already made a mistake, the PSD Parliamentary Group has already made a mistake. The PSD has committed a huge mess in this process and is led to a situation of impossibility of admission to this project. And now, instead of taking the mistake and the guilt, he wants to throw rumors between the PS and arrive! Mr President, one thing is called: lack of self-awareness. And I don't think the PSD needed that right now. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u113	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, from the Left Block, but Mr Joaquim Pinto Moreira wants to make an inquiry to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u114	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u115	So please do it to the Bureau, Mr President, or I am jealous. Ask me.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u116	Mr President, if I then grant this right, it is very simple. I would just like to see Mr President forward to this House what was the point of vote of each of the participants in the vote on 1. the Commission. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u117	Mr President, I believe that the sense of vote is public, but, as I have here, I have no problem with satisfying your curiosity. They voted in favour of the opinion of the PS Parliamentary Groups and the Liberal Initiative, voted against the PSD Parliamentary Groups, the PCP and the PAN Member. The Parliamentary Group of the Arrival was absent and the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block was absent, as was Mr Freeman. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u118	Mr President, we are used to this House, which, when the decibels are increased to expose some position, as a general rule, is because it does not or does not believe much in the position, or because it is believed that, for some reason, it does not deserve confidence. [[CH protests.]] So when we hear the House shout a lot about constitutional knowledge, we know that, in fact, you're talking about what you don't know. That's why... [[CH protests.]] You may continue to increase the decibels, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen! Increase the decibels...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u119	We're all crazy! Is that what you're talking about? [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u120	The gentlemen. Members of the Parliamentary Group of the European Union will allow the House to hear the words of the speaker.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u121	But he can say whatever he wants! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u122	If you understand that these words offend the bench, ask for the honor of the bench. That's how it's done. Now Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor and we must listen.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u123	Thank you very much, Mr President. He gets here sometimes he pulls so much out of his voice that he ends up losing or almost without her. [[Protests of CH Deputies.]] As far as this process is concerned, it is worth recalling the history of the arrival positions. The PSD presented a draft resolution for the conduct of the referendum and, even before this topic is discussed, either in 1. the Commission, either at the Conference of Leaders, has sent Mr President a request requiring that he be declared unconstitutional. This is the guarantor of the position of the Arrival. But when there is an opinion put forward by Mrs Isabel Moreira that says that the draft resolution is, in fact, unconstitutional, the Arrival abstains. [[CH protests.]] So when it comes to constitutionality, we already know: these are empty words. We thus understand why they do not agree with the party's statutes in this process. [[CH protests.]] We know — and I would like to speak, Mr President, in order to make clear the position of the Left Block — that we differ from the interpretation of the opinion which limits the right of initiative of parliamentary groups. It is, I think, even more visible as regards referendums, because if, in the matter of the referendum, it is so sensitive to the construction of the question, any amendment makes the question different. From this point of view, if there is the widespread interpretation that any party is damaged because another parliamentary group has had a legislative initiative or a referendum initiative, we disagreed with this idea because we believe that it represents the rights of opposition and political rights to parliamentary groups and withdraws the freedom of choice of their timings. There's a second look that I'd like to make clear. Voting against the opinion presented in 1. the Commission, we are not legitimizing the political content of the initiative of the Social Democratic Party, of which we have greatly diverged. [[CH Member Protests Bruno Nunes.]] We disagree not only because we recognize that it is a dilating maneuver in the process of discussing the death of assisted medicine, as because it is completely placed at risk and merely to delay a decision that was already in progress and which is inevitable. That is why this political move is, for us, condemned. But although we differ from content, we recognize that the right of the initiative should not be ignored and hence our vote. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u124	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u125	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u126	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u127	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u128	I just wanted to say the following. Recently, Mr President stopped me because I said 'We are all crazy'. [[Protests from BE Pedro Filipe Soares.]] Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares said we were shouting here at this bench and Mr. President thought we should use the honour defense.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u129	Go to the dictionary! Yelling is loud talk!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u130	Either there's a criterion or there's no criterion. Now, if there isn't, tell us that there isn't. If this is to be fight-free, it's fight-free! If it's open, it's open. Now you can't have two criteria! [[Congrats from the CH.]] This cannot happen: when I used an expression, which I immediately retracted, which is "we are all crazy or not? Mr President said 'I call you attention that you should not use expressions...' But Mr Pedro Filipe Soares says'screaming' in relation to a bench and Mr President says 'use the defense of honour'. Mr President, I know they didn't go to 1. the Commission today and which are in less number, but it is not because they are in less number who take rights to the bank of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u131	Not even several!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u132	Moreover, I would ask that Mr Pedro Filipe Soares be quoted again, because I know that it is difficult to understand, the difference between opinion and appeal. It's very different.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u133	Ah! That's why I wanted to intervene!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u134	I know you have to think a little bit. Make that effort one day and think a little bit. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[CH protests and complaints from BE Member Pedro Filipe Soares.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u135	When I can use the word, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Pause.]] In response to the question, what I have to say will tell you this way: Aristotle distinguished between what was the substance and what was the accident. Telling someone who's talking too loud refers to an accident. Using expressions such as those which you were using when I drew attention to this fact and the honourable Member corrected immediately is a qualification of the order of substance. This aristotelian difference should also be taken into account in the way we organize our work. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests of CH Deputies.]] I would like to make a little precision: I do not decide on the failure to accept the application of the draft resolution submitted by the PSD to whom it belongs. That is not what belongs to my regulatory responsibilities. I have the responsibility to ensure compliance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. I also have the responsibility to take into account the technical admissibility note that the legal services of the House prepare for any project and send me and, when I have doubts, I have a very important body that I can and must consult, called the Leaders Conference. Then it is my decision, on the basis of the interpretation of my duties, in particular of the duty to ensure that unconstitutional proposals are not discussed in the Assembly of the Republic. Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor now to speak on behalf of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u136	Mr President, very telegraphically, there are four questions that could focus on this subject, but only one issue. If the PSD Parliamentary Group really wanted a referendum on this matter to be held, the form of doing so was not that. It was voted in favour of it in June. If the PSD Parliamentary Group, after having not voted in favour of a referendum in June, wanted it to be placed on the agenda so that it could be discussed and appreciated over time, had three opportunities before the State Budget, when versions of the diploma were closed, to put the issue and had opportunities after the State Budget when for the first time the matter came to be scheduled in 1. the Commission. It was certainly not three days before the vote on this item would take place. Therefore, what remains of us truly is only and strictly a question of interpretation of the constitutional norm, of which we can even disagree. We can even think that it goes too far, that it excessively inhibits the rights of parliamentary groups, which can be unnecessary or unreasonable when the legislative sessions are very large, but what is true is that those who have to interpret this norm, in a case which is entirely identical to this one, have already done so in the past, and have done so precisely with regard to a question of a referendum in a very clear manner and have noted that an initiative of this content would be unconstitutional. Is it the question of whether or not it is the same question or the same content? Then, I think that everyone in this House, all those who, in good faith, have been accompanying this debate for years, may ask themselves whether the PSD question would affect a different subject from the question that was already on the table. We are discussing precisely the same law, the same project, the same form of decriminalization of euthanasia for years and the answer is only one: yes, the theme that would be put the discussion is exactly the same, materially, substantially, if we are in good faith. And to be good-faith, there is no other way but to recognize that this initiative could not be admitted, so we have followed the opinion favourably and we will also follow the vote to which Mr President's decision will follow. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u137	Mrs Paula Santos now has the floor to speak on behalf of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u138	Mr President : I would like to address two issues relating to the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. First of all, we have already had an opportunity to address this issue. It is that, since there has been an initiative of a rejected political force, whether or not that political force is prevented from presenting an initiative of the same content. We understand that this element cannot and should not limit the political capacity and initiative of the parties, and we believe that it would indeed be a limitation on this aspect. The other question, taking into account the proposal on the table for a referendum, concerns a concrete proposal for a question. We put the following question to the abstract: can you be in favour of the referendum and in accordance with a given question and be against another question? We are not faced with the same content and the same initiative. We make it clear that the CFP's position on the referendum proposal is against. We assume - we believe - that the Assembly of the Republic has the legitimacy to take the decision - in fact, this matter was voted on last week - but we believe that this initiative by the PSD should be admitted. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-13.u139	We are then in a position to vote. I note that in the light of Article 126 ( 5 ). the, what we are going to vote for is the opinion of 1. the Commission. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the IL and the L, votes against the PSD, the CFP, the BE and the NAP and the abstention from the CH.]] We are thus done today's work. The next plenary session is tomorrow, Wednesday, with the following agenda: first, we will have political statements, then we will appreciate the Parliamentary Survey No 5 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Possible Parliamentary Inquiry Commission to ascertain the potential interference of the Prime Minister in the autonomy of the Banco de Portugal to protect the daughter of the President of Angola, and finally the debate on Petition No 177 / XIV / 2 will be held. a ( APA - Portuguese Prison Support Association ) — Approval of a generalised penalty pardon and amnesty for small crimes, together with the Resolution Project No 306 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends the evaluation of the implementation of principles of restorative justice for criminal mediation. Good afternoon and until tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 16 hours and 32 minutes.]]
