ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We already have a quorum and all parliamentary groups are represented, so I declare open to the session. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the galleries to the public. We shall begin by voting on an opinion on the replacement of a Member of Parliament. For your reading, I give the floor to Mrs Palmira Maciel.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members is as follows: « The suspension of Deputy Diana Jorge Martins Ferreira meets the legal requirements, being replaced by Manuel Alfredo da Rocha Maia, with effect from 8 October 2022, including for the period of 150 days, i.e. until 6 March 2023. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u3	Let's vote for this opinion. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, with the absence of the L.]] I call again Mrs Palmira Maciel for the reading of the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by announcing the withdrawal, by the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, of Bill No 219 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Determines the end of mandatory use of masks in collective passenger transport, including air transport, as well as in the carriage of passenger by taxi or TVDE. I also inform you that you have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted by Mr President, the Draft Resolution Nos 270, 271 and 272 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), down to 9. the Commission, 273 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) and 274 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), down to 5. the Commission, and 275 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 11. the Commission. Bill Nos 352 / XV / 1 have also been added to the Table. a ( PCP ) and 353 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), down to 6. the Commission, 354 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 4. the Commission, and 355 and 356 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which fall to 11. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u5	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. As it should be from the knowledge of the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, our Vice-President Edite Estrela suffered a fall in the Senate Hall yesterday. Fortunately, there is no fracture to be recorded, just a trauma. Anyway, I wanted to give you this information and wish you, on behalf of all, a quick and safe recovery. Let us then get on the agenda, the first of which is on the preparatory debate of the European Council, with the participation of the Prime Minister. To open the debate, I give the floor to Prime Minister Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The European Council of tomorrow and Friday has a agenda with several points, but let me concentrate on two which I consider to be more priority. The first of these points is what will affect the set of measures to be taken to seek to reduce the galloping rise in gas prices. The package of measures presented yesterday by the European Commission contains a number of very positive elements that are going against what we have been defending. Firstly, I refer to the creation of a joint purchasing platform. It is absolutely essential, at a time when there is a supply breakdown, to avoid competition between the different Member States and to ensure that everyone joins in a common purchase, gaining negotiating weight and eliminating competition. Knowing that much of the contracts are very long-term, for at least covering failures that may exist, it is important that these joint purchases exist and are constituted over the next few months to ensure the necessary reserves for the winter of 2024 and the following. Secondly, we need to be able to definitively disconnect the gas price from the electricity price. There is a proposal from the European Commission which has already pointed to the generalisation of the European market of what we have referred to as the "Iberian Mechanism". This, as a transitional mechanism, has allowed the price of electricity to cease to be fixed by the price of production based on gas and has therefore allowed, even in a year of drought as severe as we live, that the average price is 18 % lower than it would be if the Iberian Mechanism was not working. On the other hand, and in order to limit price volatility, the European Commission also proposes that the international benchmark for setting the price of gas should be changed, and that TTF ( title transfer facility ), set in the Netherlands, should no longer be followed by a dynamic variation band, such as the old monetary serpent, would operate in Europe. This would allow you to fix either a maximum or a minimum price variation in order to eliminate the volatility factor. These three elements are relevant. Now, there are two basic answers that are essential. Firstly, given that the Iberian Mechanism is good, but as a transitional solution, it is necessary to review definitively the mechanism of fixing the price of electricity, putting an end to the marginalist mechanism, which no longer has any justification, thus justifying any further financing of infra-marginal sources of production by the cost of the highest source of production. This must be a fundamental measure and it is important that Europe can adopt it. Secondly, none of these measures will be effective without having a real European market, and there will be no European market until there is a true interconnection between all States. This is particularly relevant for countries such as Portugal and Spain, whose level of interconnection, whether electricity or gas, is clearly limited throughout the European market, so we will have all the advantage of participating in a wider market, and on the other hand, Europe as a whole has all the advantage of being able to count on either the renewable energy produced on the Iberian Peninsula or its ability to distribute to the rest of Europe other sources of energy imported from third markets.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u8	The second fundamental point of the agenda has to do with the response to the economic situation we are living in. Here, it is crucial that Europe learns how it managed the last two major crises that it faced: the financial crisis, about 10 years ago, and the most recent crisis, with COVID. in one, Europe understood that each country should solve its own problem in accordance with the rules of austerity, but in the COVID we understand, well, that for a common crisis only a common response works and it was answered on the basis of solidarity. It's not worth comparing the results. The first were dramatic, from an economic and social point of view, and the second allowed, from a health point of view, to respond to the crisis and, from an economic and social point of view, to have a recovery following the strongest situation in the pandemic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We must follow good practices and reject bad practices and, therefore, we must have, as we have done in the COVID, a mechanism that will enable us to respond to this economic crisis that we are experiencing. I hope, moreover, that the European Union understands that crises are not permanent, but they are recurrent. We must therefore have a permanent mechanism for responding to crises and not being creating a transitional mechanism for each crisis. The SURE (temporary support to you the unemployment risk in an emergency) has proved very well in the COVID crisis and should even be the model of a permanent crisis response mechanism, although what it funds should not be the layoff, but something we really should call 'layon', i.e. pay for companies to keep working, despite the brutal increase in the energy costs they are suffering, and companies have to be supported for this to work. Obviously, we cannot ignore the difficulties in obtaining consensus at European level so that there is a new debt issue by the European Commission or the constitutional limitations that some countries have. However, despite this discussion, we need pragmatic and urgent answers to the crisis we are experiencing. Now, there is a possible answer that does not require a new debt issue, but simply the use of debt already issued by the European Union and not yet used by States. I am referring, in particular, to more than EUR 200 billion, mobilised under the Next Generation to be transferred to States in the form of loans, which are not being used and can be reused to directly support companies, in particular companies that are energy intensive users, such as ceramics, steels, chemicals, which are at risk of stopping across Europe, a risk that we cannot take. [[P.S.'s applause.]] To this end, it is possible to mobilize pragmatically these resources already available, to which States could resort, simply to increase the eligibility in our case of the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ), i.e. that for which the PRR can be used. In our case, for example, this would allow us to mobilise about EUR 12 billion of loans that we are not using to support, to the extent necessary, our companies most affected by the cost of energy, so that they can maintain their work, protect their jobs and their workers' income and contribute so that the national economy will not be affected in the growth path that has happily maintained since 2016 and that we must maintain, resume and strengthen in the coming years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u9	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Capoulas Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u10	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and others. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The next meeting of the European Council, scheduled for the end of this week, is the follow-up of the informal Council in Prague of 7 October, and will be focused, unfortunately, on how it can be, in Russia's war of aggression against Ukraine and in the European Union's response to its terrible consequences. I would like to begin by welcoming the Council for the unpublished, though informal, initiative to bring together 44 countries in Europe and the eastern neighbourhood that share with us common interests in terms of security, peace and cooperation. I hope that the next meeting, already symbolically planned for Moldova, will contribute, in concrete terms, to the unity of Europe and to the strengthening of the values that make up our model of society. I would also like to underline the conclusions of the Council of Ministers for Foreign Affairs yesterday, particularly with regard to the consensus reached to extend financial, political and military support to Ukraine. Having returned eight months of barbarism, irrationality and massive destruction of goods and infrastructure, which will cost much more than a generation to be restored, the situation for which the Russian regime has pushed us leaves us no alternative: we cannot vacillate, no matter the economic and social costs that we must bear by supporting the heroic and martyred Ukrainian people, whose ability to suffer and resist, in front of the struggle for our civilization, makes our respect and admiration grow daily and makes our duty of solidarity imperative. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Still this week a media agency reminded us of the horrors of Holodomor, the genocide perpetrated by Stalin, in the 1930s, through hunger, which killed 7 to 10 million Ukrainians, that Putin now wants to repeat, through the cold. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] Therefore, Mr Prime Minister, you can count on the unconditional support of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group — and I am convinced that a much larger majority of this House — to defend, in the European Council, all the measures necessary to help Ukraine respond to aggression and to seek, by all possible diplomatic means, the paths that can lead to hope, however remote, from a cease-fire and the start of negotiations leading to peace.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u12	I will leave to my banker, Rui Lage, the intervention on issues relating to the response to the energy crisis, that the harshness of the coming winter will worsen and that it calls for the Russian strategy to destabilize European democracies and turn against them their public opinions, which is imperative that we know how to oppose. Mr Prime Minister, in addition to the support I have had the opportunity to express on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group all decisions in favour of Ukraine which are necessary to adopt in the Council, I would also like to ask you two questions on the third item of the agenda - external relations - which was also addressed at the Informal Council on 7 October and for which the Council services were open to information. I am referring to Iran's apparent involvement in the conflict as a supplier of war material used in the Russian aggression, which violates international law. Will Portugal, in the Council, defend a possible extension of sanctions to this country if there is concrete evidence of this fact? Finally, Mr Prime Minister, I would like you to inform us as a perspective of the role of Portugal in the Council, with regard to the strategic position of the European Union vis-à-vis China, and what expectations it has in this context with regard to the EU/ASEAN summit ( European Union / Association of Southeast Asian Nations ), scheduled on 14 December. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u13	In the continuation of the use of time of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Rui Lage now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u14	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Energy is in the genesis of the European Union. It was the access to coal that served as a signal to the European project in 1951 with the European Coal and Steel Community. After 71 years, it is again a fossil fuel that confronts us with the question of whether we want to be a union for energy or a disunity for energy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is true that coordination and assistance compensate. The regulation which led to the strengthening of gas reserves in the Member States to a minimum of 80 % — and which is already 90 %, without mistake — has achieved a slight reduction in prices on its own. However, the experience that we should most appreciate in our memory, and which has already been addressed here by Mr. Prime Minister, is that of the joint purchase of vaccines against COVID-19. This initiative made it possible to overcome the initial moment of selfishness and dispute over available stocks and was crucial for the rapid vaccination of the European population and for the control of the pandemic. Therefore, the option for the joint purchase of natural gas not only has this precedent, as it is a way of deepening European solidarity, moving forward in integration and affirming a united Europe in the geopolitical front. And this is even more important when we find that the reliability of some of our natural gas suppliers is not absolute. The PS has submitted a draft resolution to this House in which it rightly argues that the Government will advocate with its partners the use of this joint purchasing mechanism. Yesterday we learned that, on the table, there is precisely the joint purchase next year of 15 % of natural gas for storage. In addition to the joint acquisition, the European Commission proposes a provisional instrument for limiting prices in gas transactions. Another proposal — which was certainly a reason for some disappointment by certain political forces in this Parliament — is the adoption for the Union as a whole of a measure similar to the Iberian mechanism set up by Portugal and Spain, which allows us to buy gas at lower prices than most Member States.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u15	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u16	It is therefore important to understand the position of the Government in relation to these committee proposals, and in addition to reactive emergency response measures, it is also important to see whether there will be conditions for making progress, already in this Council, on the subject of the pipeline, in order to strengthen the links of the Peninsula with the rest of the European Union. This is also an opportunity to tie the electricity bridge that is the Iberian Peninsula to the European river – allow me to use metaphor when we celebrate the 100 years of Joseph Saramago's birth.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u17	He's not here to defend himself!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u18	Finally, it is important to see whether it is possible to move forward with the reform of the European electricity market, which Mr Prime Minister also addressed, in order to rationalise price formation, since the marginalist model, as we can see, is not appropriate at this time. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u19	For an intervention, I now give the floor to Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u20	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister : The first issue which the PSD is presenting today in this debate is of course a European issue, but it is above all a matter of great concern on the part of the European Parliament and on the part of all the parties with parliamentary seats in this House, with the exception of the Socialist Party. I am referring, of course, to the Government's proposal to move to the Secretary-General of the Internal Security System, which is in direct dependence on the Prime Minister, being appointed by you, the coordination of offices in Portugal, Interpol and Europol, so far under the rule of the judiciary, which is a big difference because it enjoys autonomy in criminal investigation. This proposal for a government law was adopted in general, with only the votes in favour of the Socialist Party. All other parliamentary sitting parties voted against. In recent days, as is the general knowledge, all the social communication has reported that the European Parliament, through the Chairman of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Mr Juan López Aguilar, Socialist Euro MP of the PSOE ( Spanish Socialist Workers Party ) — of the political family of V.E., has therefore sent a letter to the Prime Minister requesting information from the Portuguese Government and expressing concern about the risk of political interference and undue access to information and ongoing criminal investigations. This led the Socialist Party to present without delay proposals for amendments to the proposed government law, passing the head of the Europol and Interpol offices to be exercised by a framework of the Judicial Police. But this does not change the essential issue raised by the European Parliament about the risk of political interference in ongoing investigations. It is a dangerous situation for a rule of law, Mr Prime Minister, because one thing is coordination and, as you know, another thing is subordination, which is what you want to do here. [[PSD applause.]] And we also point out another very serious point: the fact that the Secretary-General of the Internal Security System is now giving an opinion in the appointment of any police commander, GNR, PJ or PSP. As you well know, this idea of the socialist government is not new. When you were Minister of Internal Administration, you wanted to withdraw international cooperation from the Judicial Police. So it's not a new thing. But let me tell you: this is extremely serious, because it calls into question the rule of law and calls into question the exemption, independence and autonomy. Let's see, you might even question the confidentiality of criminal investigation, because you're going to put it under a political layer, in a political framework. Mr. Prime Minister, who is going to keep the custody of this information, said nothing so far. So little has been said about the other visas in the letter — the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Internal Administration. So, so far, the authors of this bill have said nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u21	What about the PSD? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u22	We ask the Government if it has already responded to this letter, if it has done so, what answer it has given and if it has not, because it has not answered. Finally, Mr Prime Minister, if there is a head of government who has used the European Councils to talk about the importance of the rule of law is precisely V. Ex.a. and well. Therefore, take advantage of this European debate to give us an answer which will also be given in the European bodies. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u23	Continuing to use the time of the PSD Parliamentary Group, I give the floor to Mr. Paulo Moniz.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u24	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members: I bring here the theme of energy, which has already addressed, from a strategic perspective, what is our position as a country and what is the strategic message that, of course, will lead tomorrow and then. I will focus on the problem of interconnecting the Iberian gas pipeline, because there is an important issue here. First of all, in August, it made an apology of the possibility of Iberian gas being able to reach Central Europe. The national gas infrastructure — Sines and the pipeline itself — only has the capacity to make national supplies. He can't even get to Spain. The question I ask you — why have I not heard it so far, to clarify this, is the following: where is the investment? How will it do, and when will the change of all this central infrastructure be able to respond to your desire to be gas exporters? The second question is the first. Spain has six regasification plants, and we only have Sines. Obviously, once the MidCat is concluded, if there is agreement with France, an important question arises : what is the strategy for ensuring competitiveness, since only Sines can compete with the greatest power in terms of regasification of Europe, which is Spain? What is our strategy not to stay in our enclave? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u25	Move the gas to 5G! Scan the gas!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u26	Finally, there is a very important issue. I know you will agree, as I said—or have that expectation—with your friend Macron. We trust in your good eyes and in your proximity relationship, but imagine that they are not sufficiently seductive for President Macron : there we will have a double problem, which is the fact that Italy has already moved closer to Spain and can make a pipeline between Barcelona and Livorno in Italy. This solves the Spanish problem of entry into Europe. But do we stay like, Prime Minister? What is your strategy? That's the question. So we want to realize: where is the investment to make the infrastructure that Mr. Prime Minister said, well, what do you think of then using in green hydrogen? I haven't heard him say anything about it yet. In addition, tell me: once the problem of Spain has been solved, do we stay like? What is your instrument of persuasion and what is the irreverent offer, beyond your beautiful eyes,... [[PSD laughter.]] ...what will you do to President Emmanuel Macron? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u27	I now give the floor to Mr Ventura of the Parliamentary Group of the United States of America.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u28	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister : I congratulate you and the Government. I will not talk about your eyes, but I will tell you about your Minister for Territorial Cohesion, since we are talking about Europe. I know that today Mr. Prime Minister wanted to come here with very quiet speeches about the war in Ukraine, about the future, we will give our hands, we will all be together, etc. But arriving won't contribute to that little pier. Minister Ana Abrunhosa had her husband receiving Community funds, and she is the guardian of the area of Community funds. [[Protests of PS Members.]] Maybe the PS doesn't want to hear about this, but it's the truth that has to be discussed here. The Minister's husband, when he was president of a CCDR (regional coordination and development committee), received funds allocated to this area, as he received almost €400 000 now that the Minister protects the area of Community funds. Mr Prime Minister, we cannot claim transparency throughout Europe and then arrive here and have a minister who protects the area of Community funds and whose husband receives Community funds.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u30	Does the Prime Minister or not maintain confidence in Minister Ana Abrunhosa? It's just that the Minister then said she had an opinion. Apparently, this opinion was invalid. Then the Minister believed that she had an opinion that was not approved. It is such a joke that the Minister himself does not understand. And if the Minister does not understand himself, you must understand Mr. Prime Minister. Does she maintain or not trust in a minister who protects an area and who finds it normal for her husband to receive funds from the same area with her guardianship? It is a question I think you have to answer—it is not to me, it is to the Portuguese. [[Congrats from the CH.]] On the second question, Prime Minister, since the PS wants to talk both about Ukraine, which is an easier issue for the Socialist Party than the mess that the government has done,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u31	Easy?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u32	...you wanted to ask if you feel relieved to give the six Kamovs, what was a disaster of yours? In fact, Mr. Prime Minister should have a pin on the blade to say « Kamov », because at least we all knew who is responsible for this. Now, let's give the Kamovs, who never worked, to Ukraine. Let's see: we were going to give heavy artillery, but in the meantime, what we did was Kamov. What I ask you is, if they didn't work here, why are they going to work there? I believe that Mr. Prime Minister does not want to leave us with an international bad image. I mean, to arrive at the end of the year and say that Portugal gave six Kamovs to Ukraine and then Zelenskyy said "Mr. Prime Minister, I thank you very much, but they do not take it", now I think it is very unpleasant. Mr. Prime Minister should have at least the notion that this is a bit unpleasant. [[Congrats from the CH.]] This is to free you from a problem, because these Kamovs, who were bought by direct adjustment, never save anything from Portugal, just spent, spent and spent. It is your responsibility, as Minister of Internal Administration, and a former Prime Minister, who now you say has attacked us all, who is the Eng. José Socrates. Mr. Prime Minister said yesterday that he was confident in an agreement. But, Prime Minister, I have to tell you that you have a very annoying optimism—it irritates us all,... [[PS protests.]] ... almost everyone, taking off the PS bench — because I've been watching the news of the last few days and I've read one that says the government believes Nigeria is going to deliver gas, but Nigeria says it's not going to and it's going to reduce. However, Prime Minister Antonio Costa believes he is going. Energy crisis: « António Costa confident in European agreement, even if France is against it. » Inflation: ‘António Costa believes that the European Union will take the best measures. » Price rises: « António Costa believes we will have the right solution. » Mr. Prime Minister, with due respect, which is very much what I have for you, we are in the paints for what you believe in, we want it to be solutions for the Portuguese, we want it to be solutions so that they don't always have to be paying anymore. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. Prime Minister, we heard Mr. Minister of Economics say yesterday that, if not Nigeria, it is Trinidad and Tobago or Equatorial Guinea. Look, anyone who picks up the phone and calls! That is not how one manages a country, manages a country with solutions, and Mr Prime Minister has only shown in recent months that it is completely drifting and that the Portuguese will pay for you to drift. That's very unfair and very wrong. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u33	Even within the time available for the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr. Diogo Pacheco de Amorim has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister : The French Government has declared that it will suspend the Schengen Agreement, taking up control of its borders for six months. This will be the alleged terrorist alert, as well as, and I stress, the increase of illegals from the Balkans area. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u35	The right to do no more than two years, as is clear, is not at stake, but as France is one of the two central pillars of the European Union, its decision implicitly but clearly questions the policy of open borders without limits, so far imposed by that same Union. Mr Prime Minister, the question is this: will the European Union finally review this policy that has always been understood as suicide or will it keep it against the evidence that is going to be added? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u36	On behalf of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, Mr Bernardo Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: As I have done a few weeks ago, I would like to say again that I think these models of debate are very logical and, therefore, I hope that this type of debate will change in the Rules of Procedure. Mr Prime Minister, one of the points of the Council will be a strategic discussion on China, and it is not strange that you have not talked about it, I do not regard it as a priority, but I am concerned. I am concerned that the Prime Minister does not consider it to be a priority for three reasons. Firstly, the European Union spent the year looking at China as a systemic rival, as defined in the new strategic compass, and while Mr. Prime Minister said in April that it was necessary to increase cooperation with China in the opposite direction of what the European Union is doing. Secondly, all countries have already suspended the extradition agreement with Hong Kong, after the new law of national security worthy of a police state, moreover, only Portugal and Czechia are now missing, but the Czech Republic does not agree with China. I therefore ask what is lacking for Portugal to stop being the only country in Europe alongside China in this matter. [[Applause from the IL.]] We have already proposed it here twice, the European Union has already recommended it immensely and Portugal is the only country that has not yet done so. I do not know what the reasons are — certainly, it will not help the fact that your previous government, about three or four years ago, has signed almost 20 bilateral agreements, increasing our dependence on China — but that is, I am sorry, ashamed, because we are the only country in Europe in this situation. Thirdly, after multiple human rights violations, concentration camps, re-education, increased dependence on supply chains, cyber attacks, repatriated dissidents, after all, the European Union has already realized that global free trade requires a balance with the rule of law and, of course, with geopolitical risk. I'm starting to get worried because only the Portuguese Government is giving signs that I haven't noticed this yet. That is why, in our view, China's investment agreement with the European Union that was being prepared is not stopped, and for us it is really over, so I would like to know what the government's position on this subject is going to be in the European Council. On the other hand, I would like to ask whether you already have any new information regarding the informal teams, as an NGO (non-governmental organization) reported a few weeks ago. Mr. Prime Minister at the time said he didn't know anything yet. As I realized in the last half-year debate that you allegedly read the Financial Times, I ask you if you read yesterday's news that basically the role of the foreign services of the European Union given to the Member States for advice says much of what I said here and says that a stronger separation is needed from China. Therefore, not only reading the fat letters and the covers, reading these news in depth, I ask you what is missing for Portugal to change its position on the strategic change that the European Union needs to face China.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u38	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u39	In conclusion, and on energy, I would like to say to Mr Rui Lage that the Commission, in all the papers I have read, says that the Iberian Mechanism believes it is good to reduce prices in Portugal and Spain, but does not recommend it for Europe as a whole, because it increases gas consumption and what we want is to reduce demand. This should be very explicit. On the European gas buying platform, I have three very quick questions. First: how would this mechanism be operated, whether by companies or by States directly, which, in my view, could violate European rules? Secondly, what does the Government propose about the distribution by Member State, taking into account the different capacities of each country to receive gas? Thirdly: of course — no one is naive — that producers will not accept to sell at such a low price if there are no significant counterparts, what is the government's position on this issue? [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u40	To speak on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Alfredo Maia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u41	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The European Council of the next few days will essentially replicate the previous road map, marked by the war agenda and the alleged inevitability of sacrifices always imposed on the same — workers, pensioners and pensioners. What is anticipated about economic issues is very little, when it was expected that the European Union would not restrict itself to the so-called 'energy crisis'. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u42	As in Portugal, where a strong protest and demand movement grows, as today demonstrated the powerful manifestations of the CGTP (General Confederation of Portuguese Workers) last Saturday, also in countries such as France is on the agenda the urgent need to face the degradation of living conditions. It is not acceptable that it continues to be the one who works or has already worked to pay the bill of the economic situation with the deepening of labour transfers to capital, while workers lose increasingly purchasing power, the large economic groups accumulate more and more wealth on the basis of the speculative activity and the favors of governments. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u43	What is required is the increase in wages and reforms and pensions, instead of keeping workers hostage from a situation they did not cause. With regard to energy, little is expected beyond the ongoing discussion on security of supply and the transfer of important public resources to large companies, but not to very small and medium-sized enterprises, or to families, ensuring speculative profits to the untouchable energy companies. See the case of Portugal : instead of stopping the spiral of speculation with the control of the margins and the fixing of prices that nourish the millionaire profits of EDP, Endesa, Iberdrola, Galp, etc. , the Government mobilises EUR 3000 million, of which EUR 1500 million originated in the State budget, to finance the profits of large companies and to benefit from the large capital that controls speculation. This is an obvious and obedient alignment with the European Union's guidelines, with an identical behaviour by the great powers, with the difference that these confer on large companies even more generous appropriations, which also deepens inequalities. the policy of cutting in hot baths, on demand reduction, recommended for the Union, will be those of the custom to pay the invoice. The signs of the deleterious effects on the economy, of the obsession with large energies in gas supply and of the worsening of sanctions on a suicide path to the European Union, already in the process of deindustrialization, with the closure of more companies, generating more unemployment and poverty, are clear. Unfortunately, the European Council will not take a single step towards the escalation of the dangerous level of belligerence, when the Union, on the contrary, should act as a protagonist, through dialogue and negotiation and present itself as a promoter of peace. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u44	To intervene, on behalf of the Left Block, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortagua.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Prime Minister : Who today claims that inflation fights with more interest, with wage restraint, with fiscal obsession, is as wrong as those who had sworn to feet 10 years ago that the crisis was resolved with a cure of austerity and impoverishment. Today, like 10 years ago, we know that poverty and poverty do not pay debts, and Mr Prime Minister has told us here about various possibilities for intervention at European level, but he has failed to explain to a country, where more than 1, 5 million people go cold in winter, because he refuses to lower VAT (tax on added value) of electricity and gas. Mr Prime Minister, energy VAT at a maximum rate of 23 % is pure political sadism. There is no other justification, there is no other way to see the government's refusal to bring down VAT on electricity and gas in the face of this crisis unless it is a political sadism movement. So I would like to make a first request when we are given an answer: save us and the PS bench too — when it speaks to us of the important measure that Minister Fernando Medina presented in that unfortunate package of inflation. The accounts are made in the Budget and, with the reduction of the VAT that was then presented, made the accounts, gives a total savings of 9 € per year, i.e. 0, 75 € per month. We have to expect inflation to rise little so that energy saving can pay a kiss to each family per month. But instead of trying to recover this trick, I would like Mr. Prime Minister to take this moment to explain to the country why, having Portugal the largest economic growth since 1990 and a fantastic year for public accounts, the Government has no room to lower the VAT of light, even in anticipation of an increase in energy poverty in Portugal. After the exercise of invocation of inevitability and call of fears, which will certainly do — indeed, the exercise in which the Minister Medina has been given an incentive to envy former ministers on the right, I must say — and after explaining to this House why budgetary restraint is so necessary, I would also like Mr. Prime Minister to explain why it is that the will of the budget discipline which keeps VAT at 23 % does not come to tax the profits of large energy companies. It is that the measure to tax large profits continues without appearing in the State budget. So I ask you what you have and who has to gain from the government's lack of diligence in this matter, except the Amorim family and Sonangol, who receive in Holland the extraordinary profits that Galp has been distributing in an extraordinary way. Mr Prime Minister, this is not the first time we see the government dragging foot in Europe. The government has already done so before when it was practically one of the few to defend the importance of Chinese interests in Europe and Portugal. And now I would like to ask the contrary: is it in the interest of Portugal that EDP and REN belong to the Chinese State? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u46	To speak on behalf of the NAP, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Before addressing my questions to Mr Prime Minister, I would like to express once again our solidarity with Iranian women. Another 16-year-old died, Europe will already apply sanctions for the constant violation of human rights, but the international community, in fact, must not be silent in the face of these atrocities that are being committed against all women and girls in Iran. With regard to what we are bringing here today, the preparation of the next European Council, I would like to tell Mr. Prime Minister that we have heard him talk about measures to support the energy crisis, particularly with regard to the possibility of the Iberian bottle in reducing gas, i.e. the Iberian Mechanism for the whole European Union. In our view, that's not enough, we need to go further. The NAP has defended the expansion of the social energy tariff, both in electricity and in gas, and there has been a resistance to return to the defense of a mechanism in these molds. It is essential that you tell the 2 million people who are currently facing a winter in which they cannot warm up their houses if there will be more ambition in support, a measure that does not have a cost for the state, but for operators. This is a strategy that must be transversal and common throughout the European Union, which will also be cold. We cannot be on the side of measures such as free passes or low prices in Spain and Germany and have Portugal not to move in this set of prices to deal with the energy crisis. Nor can we reduce invoicing prices by circumstantial measures and, on the other hand, not create extraordinary support to make people's homes more efficient from an energy point of view, when we know that it will be a serious problem throughout Europe and that Portugal will be no exception. Finally, in addition to the social energy tariff, I wanted to ask again, in relation to the hub of Sines — we are pleased to see that it is finally discussed, because it was a measure that the NAP has always defended — what strategy will be applied so that we can use one of the great potentials that we have even for more efficient solutions such as the use of the energy of waves, tides, but also solar and wind.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u48	To speak on behalf of the Free Party, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u49	Mr President, Prime Minister : The history of energy dependence on Russia and other authoritarian regimes has many chapters, but one of them was written here in Lisbon when the Energy Charter Treaty was signed in the 1990s. I have already asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Secretary of State for European Affairs until Portugal will continue to hope that it will be the European Commission to modernise the Energy Charter Treaty, when, in recent weeks, we have seen Spain, Poland, the Netherlands saying that they will leave this Treaty unilaterally, which basically allows large energy companies to punish States whenever they transfer their energy production to sustainable sources. Mr Prime Minister, will you discuss this at the next European Council? Are you going to ask your counterparts why they go out unilaterally and try to understand why they stop waiting and trust in a supposed modernization that would come there? on a second point, I found the proposal here to use the remainder of the next generation EU fund, which was not taken by the Member States in the form of a loan, to support companies that are energy-intensive. It has a problem: on a scale it is very small — 200 billion is the size of the German package. On the other hand, the German package has just been dropped by the German Court of Auditors as unconstitutional. The exit is still European debt and I would therefore like to know whether this proposal will be abandoned within the European Council. There is a charter that its Hungarian counterpart has distributed to the entire country that basically says that the Brussels sanctions are destroying them, presenting them as a bomb and forgetting the real bombs that kill people across the border with Ukraine. And this, which is supposed to be a national referendum, a national consultation, only serves one thing, which is basically to violate the data protection of Hungarian citizens and redesign the electoral circles to ensure more than two-thirds majority.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u50	What an obsession with Hungary! At least it's not with Venezuela or North Korea!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u51	Yes, defend your allies, who are Putin's allies! [[CH protests.]] Since the last time we talked, the novelty is this: the European Parliament has declared that a Member State of the European Union is no longer a full democracy. The PS Euro MPs voted in favour of this declaration. Here Members in the Assembly of the Republic abstained, including the PSD. Will they go through a declaration of these, voted by three quarters of the European Parliament, as a sold dog, not even mentioning it in the European Council? Or they will finally activate Article 7. o? [[CH protests and L-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u52	I would ask that there be conditions for us to continue. To close the debate, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I shall begin by answering a question which has been put to me by several Members. Ladies and gentlemen, it is central to our country, the interconnections. My confidence is not only based on my beautiful eyes — thanks for the praise — but simply on the principle of reason, which is the following: a single market generates advantages for all; there is a part of Europe excluded from that single market is an added disadvantage for that part; and, as we have seen over these years, circumstances have determined and proved that an increase in interconnections increases the support that is necessary at any time. For example, even a country such as France, which theoretically has a large capacity to produce energy based on nuclear energy, has been a strong importer of energy produced or channelled from the Iberian Peninsula this year, since it has an important part of its power stations stopped in maintenance and another part with operating restrictions because, due to drought, it has difficulties in cooling. If the interconnections were greater, France would be receiving more energy today. When I say to France, I say to Germany, I say to the Czech Republic, I say to Poland, I say to all countries which today have difficulties with energy supply and to which we can contribute more energy. They ask: How? at this moment, we only need 162 km from the pipeline between Celorico da Beira and Vilar de Frades to reach the border, and Spain will have to make the final section, which are about 60 km, to Zamora. Spain's connection to the rest of Europe is relatively indifferent to us. If it is by the Pyrenees, if it is by the Gulf of Biscay, if it is by Marseille, if it is by Italy, that journey, for us, is irrelevant. What is crucial is that we are connected to Spain and this is linked, by any of these routes, to Europe. That's what we're interested in. They say: « But Spain has the greatest regasification capacity in Europe. » It is true, but that is why it is very important that the project being discussed today is of dual use: that in the short term it can be used for the transport of LNG ( liquefied naturalgas) but that in the future it can be used for the transport of green hydrogen. And there we can add to the production capacity of the Iberian Peninsula and not simply compete with Spain on regasification. It makes no sense, of course, to be competing with a neighbouring country that has a third of Europe's regasification capacity. What makes sense is complementary and looking forward and realizing that green hydrogen and other renewable gases will surely be the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The second key issue concerns the economy and the price reduction, which can result from these mechanisms: the joint purchase; the shutdown of price fixing mechanisms by TTFs; the shutdown of the price fixing of electricity from rising gas prices; the increase in interconnections; and the end of the marginalization regime for price fixing. But it also involves intervening on markets to control prices. And what Mr. Alfredo Maia has designated as'support for large companies' is not support for large companies. These EUR 3000 million ensure, for example, that Portuguese families on the regulated electricity market already know that they have an increase of 2, 8 % over January last year and 1 % over the next month of December during the whole year of 2023 in the regulated electricity market. It is thanks to this intervention on the market, to these EUR 3000 million, that there can be a reduction for companies of 60 % at the cost of electricity and 78 % at the cost of gas. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] Mrs Mariana Mortágua, « containment budget »? Oh, my God! Let's just do the next bill. Until September, in the package of support measures for families and businesses, we had invested EUR 1600 million. The support package for the families I presented in September, for pensioners and for the assets, adds more EUR 2400 million. In the plan presented by the Minister for Economic Affairs, there are more than EUR 1000 million. This package now presented, only for intervention at the cost of energy, is more than EUR 3000 million. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] Mrs. Deputy, it's 1600 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u54	They're not, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u55	It's 1600 million plus 2400 million. That's 4 billion. Plus 1000 million, it's 5000 million, plus 3000 million, it's 8 billion euros. It calls this 'containment budget'? Oh, my God! Does it call 'containment budget' to EUR 8000 million to support families and businesses in a country like Portugal? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u56	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u57	Mrs Mariana Mortágua, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, for the most deprived families we have a social tariff not only for electricity but also for gas. This does not cover the 70 000 families covered by 2015, it does cover more than 700 000 families. There are 700 000 families benefiting from the social rate, both in electricity and in gas. As far as VAT is concerned, it is important not to forget that we are going to the second reduction in electricity VAT. The House has just approved it, it has been promulgated by Mr President of the Republic this week and is in the process of publication, if it has not already been published between yesterday and today. And we had done a great reduction two years ago, indeed, a smart reduction, which is to change the VAT rate based on consumption, because the energy crisis does not stop the climate emergency and we must continue to respond to the climate emergency. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[BE's laughs.]] With regard to the issues of international policy, I would like to draw the attention of the honourable Members. Members of the Council, for a time saving, for point 21 of the Council's conclusions on China, which has a clear answer to the question raised. On other issues, I would like to say, firstly, that we absolutely condemn Russia's war on Ukraine, and support for Ukraine must continue. Only Mr. André Ventura would have the bad pleasure of being able to indulge in a human tragedy...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u58	It's not fun!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u59	...as the one that the Ukrainians are suffering from the war triggered by an autocrat enemy of democracy and freedom as Mr Putin is. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u60	What about the Kamovs?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u61	The Kamovs correspond to an express request from the Ukrainian Government to assign them to them in order to be used.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u62	But this isn't working!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u63	by the way, the Ukrainian government believes it will work, and so do I. Since I've already seen them working here and I know why they don't work here, I didn't say they didn't give in. We give in with great pride, in the same way that we have given up, and we will continue to give in, another material that has been requested by Ukraine so that it can defend itself, in the name of international law, and guarantee national sovereignty and the integrity of its territory.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u64	What about Minister Ana Abrunhosa?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u65	Mr. André Ventura, don't hurt me. I understand you don't believe in what I believe in, but there's one thing you should ask yourself: who believes in you? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u66	We therefore close the first item on our agenda. I say goodbye to the government and I wish you a good European Council. We will come to the second item on our agenda, which concerns the assessment of the Ombudsman's Annual Report. We wait a few seconds for the benches to re-arrange their choreography. [[Pause.]] I give the floor to Mrs Alexandra Leitão of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u67	Mr. President, Mr. Caros and Mr. Members: The Ombudsman sent to the Assembly of the Republic his Annual Activity Report on the year 2021, in accordance with Article 23. the Statute of the Ombudsman, approved by Law No 9 / 91. The report is very rich in its general and specific recitals as well as in the detailed statistical data it presents in several areas, in particular with regard to complaints made by citizens to the Ombudsman. As regards these same complaints, they are divided into several sectoral areas: environmental, urban and cultural rights and essential public services; economic, consumer and taxpayer rights; social rights; workers' rights; rights to justice and security; rights, freedoms and guarantees — health and education; and also a specific part relating to the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira. in this presentation, I would point out two essential aspects which are, of course, highlighted in the report. The first is the increase, statistically, of the number of complaints in the year 2021, for which the Report of the Ombudsman itself presents two explanations: on the one hand, still the pandemic in 2021, and on the other hand, greater awareness of its rights and means of reaction. However, there is another aspect which I would also like to point out here as being of the greatest importance, which is that of the circumstances of, at present, with the Statute in force at present, the Ombudsman considers that he has no means to make a screening and selection of the proceedings. This leads me to the second essential point which I consider to be withdrawn from this report, which, in fact, in the introductory text itself, stresses the fundamental importance of the approval of the new organic law of the Ombudsman by Decree-Law No 80 / 2021 of 6 October, saying, and paraphrase, which strengthens the unity of the institution, allows us to find balance in the exercise of the functions of the Ombudsman and to make a prior assessment of the complaints. Furthermore, this point and the importance of the tools, let us say, that this new organic law gives to the Ombudsman's Office was emphasized here by the Ombudsman herself. I should also like to point out that it is highlighted in the report — and I think that it is something that this House must take due note of — the importance not only of the formal interventions of the Ombudsman's Office, namely recommendations and requests for the supervision of constitutionality, but also of an important role in the mediation and informal resolution of situations between citizens and the Public Administration, which, by this more or less informal operation, also contributes much to resolving situations before they even progress. As regards the 14 recommendations: 12 are related to the same type of subject, which has to do with road accidents in granted motorways, having been rejected 10 and 2 accepted; and 2 other recommendations, which are addressed to other subjects, are waiting. There are also two requests for constitutional review that await the Constitutional Court's decision. Finally, I shall soon sum up a report which is very rich, I think are the essential aspects. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u68	To speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Mónica Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are debating the Annual Report of the Ombudsman on 2021, as well as that of the Ombudsman as the National Prevention Mechanism ( MNP ), and we must leave a word of praise to the well-structured way in which it is carried out, which, moreover, has already been the stamp of the Ombudsman. By analysing the report, among the many issues and complaints addressed there, we see that complaints about the problems in the payment of social benefits by the State remain unacceptable. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u70	The state fails with whom it could not even fail, i.e. with the most fragile, who are our elderly and people with disabilities. This could not fail! by not promptly assigning the social benefits that people lack, the State neglects the rights to ensure autonomy and independence, physical and financial, of these citizens more fragile and vulnerable, repeat. The conditions for access to social benefits, their calculation and payment are a true sacred route. The delay in its assignment is a calvary. There are known situations in which the Social Security Institute and/or the National Pension Centre took more than two years—more than two years! — the payment of retirement pensions. During this time, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what do these people live on, already so vulnerable? How do you eat? How do you pay your bills? The State's delay in paying these pensions effectively calls into question the survival of these persons, especially if they do not have family backing. The difficulties of access and delays in payments are transversal to the various benefits and support and the newly created Pension in Time, which is no longer a temporary pension, nor does it solve the problem, particularly in the special case of unified pensions, on the contrary! Not only is the pension not at the time as eternity what should be provisional, moving ultimately and poorly calculated. We must also mention the scandalous delay in paying the supplement for dependence, with numerous cases of applicants who have died, Mrs and Mrs. Members, before they were paid this supplement, in a clear violation of the dignity of these people, who were deprived of a word that would allow them to access support that would diminish their dependence on them. The complaints referred to in the Report are only a small sample of the country's mirror, only the complaints of the people who complained to the Ombudsman. The report also highlights the great concern of the National Prevention Mechanism regarding the conditions — or the lack of them! — existing in prisons, educational centres and temporary centres of foreign and similar spaces, as well as recommendations and institutional disclosure. There were no significant changes in prison establishments, and the Mechanism continued to warn that the housing standards established by the Committee on the Prevention of Torture of the Council of Europe should be met, either to ensure conditions for prisoners or to avoid further condemnations by the Portuguese State. Just remember that Portugal was condemned by the European Court of Human Rights on 3 December 2019 by conditions of detention in two Portuguese prisons of the Romanian citizen Daniel Petrescu and, more recently, on 15 September, by inhumane conditions in the detention of two citizens. Also with regard to educational centres, we see that it is not only to comply with Recommendation No. 1 / 2019 / MNP, of the Mechanism, as the situation has even worsened. The lack of support in the context of mental health, with serious deficiencies in the diagnosis of diseases, as well as in the prevention of disruptive behaviors, with serious consequences inherent in the lack of treatment and follow-up in such early ages that it is important to recover young people and educate them for the right. They are the principles of our educational guardianship law. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u71	The lack of conditions in educational centres was also revealed in the last report of the Committee on the Monitoring of Educational Centres, which denounces the abuses of the law and violations of the fundamental rights of children and young people who are there to the responsibility and to the custody of the State without fulfilling their duties, leaving these children and young people to imprisonment without resocialization and without access to mental health care, thereby inexorably compromising their future. Much goes wrong in the Republic of Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u72	To speak on behalf of the NAP, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I should like to point out that the Ombudsman's Annual Report gives us a picture of the concerns that have come to you and I would like to remind you that, once again, Portugal has been condemned by the European Court of Human Rights for violations of the European Convention on Human Rights, including inhuman or degrading treatment in prisons. A condemnation of this nature and the acts underlying it are incompatible with an advanced society which respects the regulations in force in our country, in particular the constitutional ones. On the other hand, Mrs Provedora also refers to a repeated delay in the allocation of social benefits — something that has already been mentioned and which we are accompanying in terms of concern — and in the assessment and decision of many pension requirements by the National Pension Centre as well as problems in the allocation of social benefits in the context of the protection of persons with disabilities and inclusion, which assumes a particularly serious character. Placing the autonomy and financial independence of elderly and/or disabled people to meet their basic needs is always incomprehensible and especially worrying today. I would also like to leave a note on domestic violence. The report shows that, once again, we have failed because there are several appeals from victims concerning procedural delay and dissatisfaction with the responses found in the various institutions with which they interact. Without prejudice to the limitations of Provedoria, we must not fail to realize that the victims feel compelled to resort to this route is a demonstration that we are still far from the effective answers that are necessary. Finally, Mrs Provedora also speaks about animal welfare, in particular the complaints she receives regarding the conditions under which animals are kept, as in the case of the tendering, and their abandonment, which seems to have no end in view, which only reinforces the need for more public welfare policies in relation to families, as well as the absence of any setbacks in the existing legal framework.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u74	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One more year, one more Report, one more element that reflects the reality that the PS tries to hide and that everyone should worry. There were 12 219 procedures opened in 2021 by the Ombudsman's Office, a record number that follows the trend of recent years and insists not to slow down, a record number that is influenced by complaints related to social security, taxation and the public employment relationship. More than half of the procedures opened by the Ombudsman were in these areas of direct intervention by the State and the Government. But it is in social security that we find particularly serious complaints about tax executions, a worrying example of the voracity of the PS tax machine, which does not respect the minimum guarantees of the amount of income that can be weighed. It is strange that, year after year and in an illegal way, the old-age pensions of hundreds of citizens will not be respected with a minimum income and often without the injured knowing that they are being penalized, and therefore cannot claim it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u76	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u77	As the Ombudsman states in her report, there is a flagrant violation of the law by the Social Security Institute, already since 2018, which is inadmissible in a rule of law. It is not only individuals who have to comply with the law, but also the State must do so. I would say more: I should do it in the first instance. With regard to the most vulnerable, those who have contributed to the social security system the whole life, the State cannot regret their already low pensions, totally disrespected by the law and without minimal social sensitivity. The second point I would like to point out in the report is that of the laxity of justice. We have a slow justice, that the PS and this government are unable to reform and improve, and that slowness is proven by the numbers in the report. Late complaints make more than 60 % of complaints submitted and related to justice, an area in which there is also a huge increase in the number of complaints from 819 in 2020 to 1250 in 2021. And it's not hard to understand why. Who saw the news this week has encountered a situation that, tragically, even seems comical: courts have no paper! We have a justice that causes « shame elsewhere» in the words of a lawyer from Braga who was forced to deliver, along with his request, traces of paper A4 so that the court could move forward with the proceedings. Looks like we won't even see the page of austerity. In fact, we don't even have pages now! As identified by the national association of Judges, the origin of this problem is precisely, and I quote, the 'excessive centralisation of competences in the functioning of the Ministry of Justice'. This is a problem that the Liberal Initiative had already identified in its electoral programme: it is not possible to have centralised management of justice. For this reason, the Liberal Initiative will soon present a set of measures that will enable the decentralization of the management of the courts and a flexible and effective management of our justice. In order for justice to play its part, we cannot have a roleless court, nor can a government « to the roles ». These are just two themes, but we could list several that demonstrate precisely the importance of the Ombudsman's performance as an essential part of the system of protection of the rights, freedoms and guarantees of the Portuguese, in front of a state that has been too often part of the problem and not of the solution. The Socialist Party's centralist model failed. We have paperless courts, a shameless PS and a country without justice. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u78	Mr Pedro Pinto has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We discussed the Annual Activity Report of the Ombudsman on the year 2021, as well as the annex to the Report on the Ombudsman's activities as a prevention mechanism. This report gives us some of the concerns of the Ombudsman, Prof. Maria Lucia Amaral, to which we cannot fail to pay attention. In fact, it is not possible to ignore the alert for the number of applications that came to the Ombudsman's Office in 2021, 21 259 requests, and for the number of complaints that gave rise to open proceedings, 12 219 complaints. They correspond, both, to new historical records and are the highest since the beginning of the activity of the Provider. The 12 219 exposures considered as complaints represent a 6 % increase over the year 2020. If we base the year 2017, the first of the term of office completed, this increase is 57 %. The caution of Mrs Provedora is very clear: to maintain this state of affairs, there will be a moment from which the institution will simply cease to be able to respond. For Mrs Provedora, the path goes, in particular, by taking a clear choice about what you want for this State body, of course — and we are in complete harmony with that — that a Provider who is only at the service of those who complain and who are content to remedy isolated things does not serve the community and contrary to its own constitutional statute. Moreover, the Statute of the Ombudsman is essentially cut off from the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and the Arrival has recently entered with a draft constitutional review, which, we hope, will be the "start shot" for the other parties to present their own projects, thus taking advantage of the opportunity to change a retrograde, ideological and outdated constitution in many aspects. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Parties that understand that there is something to change in the Constitutional Statute of the Ombudsman, in particular in the sense suggested by the Ombudsman, now have the opportunity to present the amendments that they understand to our draft constitutional review,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u80	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u81	... not only to amend the Statute of the Ombudsman, but also to change what needs to be changed in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, presenting your ideas for constitutional review and contributing to correct what does not work and to reject what is dated. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: let us now report one or two specific concerns. The first one is included in the chapter on environmental, urban and cultural rights and essential public services, referring to the point where Mrs Provedora reports the frequent complaints of unhappy residents with the change in the use of autonomous fractions without prior deliberation of the condom assembly. We all know that numerous activities carried out in buildings on horizontal property generate disadvantages for the other condominiums, referring to the Provider the examples of activities developed by restaurants and beverages establishments, supermarkets, merceries and hairdressers, without forgetting, we added, the local housing in housing buildings, which was the subject of a qualified decision of the Supreme Court of Justice still in the course of the current year, but which does not cease to be related to this problem. Already in 2007 this problem had been identified — 2007, I repeat — but, surprisingly, or perhaps not, in 2021, the problem continued, so the Ombudsman reiterated with the Government the need to consider the legislative amendment, in particular to prevent conflict and safeguard the right to rest and rest of the remaining condoms. How could it have taken 14 years since the recommendation was issued to insist on its compliance? I repeat, 14 years! What country is this where you have to wait almost a decade and a half to try to accomplish something? This administrative irregularity, affecting the rights of citizens, crossed four socialist governments without having been resolved, in the right socialist way. Secondly, and finally, Mr President, according to the report of the National Prevention Mechanism, the average occupancy rate of the Portuguese prison system was 90, 3 % at the end of 2021. However, according to the Council of Europe, an occupation of more than 90 % is a high-risk situation. This means that, contrary to what the previous Minister of Justice said, there are many prison establishments in overcrowding — cases of Viseu, Vila Real, Bragança, Aveiro, Braga, Beja, Leiria, Caldas da Rainha, Coimbra, Guarda —, being particularly worrying the situation of the Algarve, with three prisons at high risk: Silves, Faro and Olhão. That is, these prison establishments are overcrowded.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u82	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u83	We do not know where the Minister of Justice is, in this Parliament, it is certainly not. What we know is that we need answers and urgent action is being taken in the face of this overcrowding, but it is not putting them on the street, as they did in the COVID-19 pandemic. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It is building new prison establishments or increasing their rental. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u84	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are debating the report by the Ombudsman and I think it makes sense to start by highlighting the statistical wealth that brings us, but also some political considerations that we can withdraw from him. Let us begin with the statistical observation: there is a recourse to the Ombudsman as never before. So let us look at two of the political conclusions that it removes from this huge influx of requests. The first is that many of the requests stem from the absence of justice in the courts, i.e. conflicts should be resolved in another way, but, in the face of a lack of access to justice, it is at the door of the Provider that people are going to knock. The second political conclusion is that of some inability of people to exercise their rights in various State services. On the first of these considerations, she tells us that the number of requests may call into question the response capacity of the Ombudsman as a pillar of the justice system, and that should make us all reflect. If this results in a lack of sense of justice and the lack of access to justice for all citizens, it is worrying and I believe that we should all deserve a huge reflection. We know that the courts have difficulty in responding, we know that the government did not want or want to move in the rates of access to justice, and we know that this is undermining people's confidence in our democratic space, in the functioning of our society, and from this point of view, Mrs Provedora's warning is essential. Either we invest in justice that is close to the citizens, able to reduce the barriers that currently exist in access to justice, or we are riding the space of populism and riding the space of the feeling of absence of one of the most fundamental pillars of democracy, which is access to quality justice. I leave a second note on the concerns that Mrs Provedora has brought: there is clearly a state that is too strong with many of the most fragile of our society. This can be seen, for example, when it comes to the rights of work and the rights accumulated for a lifetime. There are many complaints that Mrs.Provedora receives, and in which she considers that the complainants are right, about decisions of the General Pension Board, about decisions on the social security pension system, about complaints from those who, after having trained rights before the State, see in the State an obstacle to access to these rights. I think that's unacceptable. On the one hand, this happens because the laws are not clear or are often made to twist rights and not to respect rights. On the other hand, this is because we also have public services that are lacking in people to respond to these essential requests. From that point of view, the policy that we are witnessing on the right hand side, not to let people enter the State when the State needed them, or on the Government's side, which considers that the public administration's careers are not to value, results in practice in public services that do not respect people as they should respect. Finally, Mr President, with one sentence: if this report and this debate are for anything, it is so that these alerts do not fall into a broken bag and we already have a State budget to be able to answer some of these questions. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u86	To speak on behalf of the CFP, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The assessment of the Ombudsman's Annual Activity Report is of great value to the Assembly of the Republic. Not only because of the monitoring relationship that is important to maintain with this State body, elected by the Assembly of the Republic, for the constitutional relevance of its functions, but also because the knowledge of the activity of the Providence allows us to obtain a detailed portrait of the dysfunctions that it is important to correct in the functioning of the Public Administration, particularly with regard to its relationship with the citizens. Although there has been a small decrease in the number of complaints in relative terms, the weight of social security in all complaints submitted, 27 % of the total, remains impressive. As a novelty in 2021, there is the sharp growth of 32 % of complaints about health and the absolute growth of complaints about economic and financial affairs, as well as in road affairs and in registers and notary matters. We would like to highlight one aspect which Mr. Ombudsman, in introducing this Report, refers to as « impressive » : the number of requests arrived and the number of complaints that gave rise to open proceedings in 2021, corresponded to new historical records, the highest since the beginning of the Ombudsman's activity. In order to understand the meaning of this activity, it is mentioned in the introduction of the Report, and I quote: "More than half of the complaints are resolved to the satisfaction of the citizen immediately in instructing the process; many others, widely majority, are resolved by obtaining satisfactory results in each specific case, thanks to the mediation task that the supply services carry out in the face of the entities targeted by the citizen initiative. Do not keep on seeking. ” They will also contribute to this result, according to the Report, the greatest capacity that citizens today have to react to acts or omissions from public authorities who understand that they are harmful to their legitimate rights or interests and the greatest ease with which they do so, thanks to the digital means that greatly contribute to extending the possibilities of communication with a state institution that is universal, informal and free of charge. We note the warning: this situation, in which the systematic increase in complaints obliges the Ombudsman to make the individual composition of disputes the broad majority of his activity, will prove to be unsustainable and likely to compromise other functions that the Ombudsman is responsible for, such as being a national human rights institution and acting as a mechanism to prevent torture. The resolution of this problem does not go through the limitation of the right to complain to the Provider, nor does it change the duties of the Ombudsman, mainly because it improves the functioning of the State : better functioning of the judiciary, better functioning of the social security system, better functioning of the tax authority in its relationship with taxpayers, better conditions for the performance of the social functions of the State, guaranteeing the right to health, education, access to justice or work with rights. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u88	For an intervention on behalf of the Free Party, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As has been said in all interventions, there was a record number of complaints in the year 2021. There is good news in this, which is that of our citizens being increasingly demanding and increasingly making use of this instrument, but the bad news is that our State has, in many respects, a very bad relationship with our fellow citizens. This is essential. If we do nothing more in our work as legislators, this is where we should focus: to ensure that the State ceases to have such a hierarchical, so rigid, so authoritarian relationship with Portuguese and Portuguese. on this mission, the role of the Ombudsman — as I call him — is essential. We see, for example, that many complaints have come through specialized telephone lines. Why not legislate for Portugal to follow the example of other countries and also for specialized supplies? We saw that, of the 14 recommendations, 10 were rejected. Why not, as long as they have the mechanisms of contradiction and appeal, recommendations become binding? Finally, why should we not finally change the name of the Ombudsman for the Ombudsman? In other words, an isolated palate of citizens to a real institution that commits itself to reforming the relationship between the State and citizens in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u90	With no further entries, the debate on this item on the Ombudsman's Annual Report is closed. We move on to the third item on the agenda, which is from the evaluation of the Resolution Projects 85 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Water Loss Reduction Program in Public Supply Networks, 97 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Increase the reuse of treated waste water, 208 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Programme to strengthen the storage capacity of the trees and increase public water reserves, 210 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — artificial load of aquifers for water efficiency enhancement, 216 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Encourage green infrastructures and the installation of rainwater systems, together with, in general, Law Projects Nos 124 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Amended Decree-Law No 58 / 2005 of 29 December to promote the efficient use of water resources, 206 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Protects the efficient use of drinking water and obliges the use of water from wastewater treatment stations for the water of golf courses, 234 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — National plan for the structural prevention of the effects of drought and its follow-up, 336 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Strengthens the monitoring, control and assessment of the pollution of rivers located in international water regions, amending the Water Law, 337 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Change the legal framework of watershed management plans provided for in the Water Law, ensuring the existence of sustainable ecological flows and the mandatory forecast of measures to mitigate the effects of climate change and drought and 338 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Reduce to 6 % the VAT on services to ensure the water efficiency of dwellings by amending the VAT code and also by assessing draft Resolution No 112 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Recommends that the Government establish the mandatory recycling/reuse systems in new buildings and consider the eligibility of these systems for financial support through the environmental fund, 190 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the public management of the vineyard Perimeter de Rega do Mira and water safeguard measures, 235 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends to the Government the construction, modernization and rehabilitation of irrigation systems and 269 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to strengthen the national regadio. To present the initiatives of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Coimbra has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We need to change and improve much the way we manage water in Portugal. If the urgency of the need for good water management was already evidence, the last hydrological year was especially dramatic, with the lack of rain, the worsening of drought and the context of the energy crisis in which we plunged. The government, which managed to spend a year of minimum rainfall to make the political minimums, has come to the public saying that the problem of drought is structural but has limited itself to present, with delay, timely and manifestly insufficient measures. There is a need to change and improve, and the PSD brings up a number of initiatives to this end. Our country continues to have unacceptable levels of water loss in its public supply networks: 30 percent. We suffer from the effects of drought at the same time as we waste 30% of our water because of the inability to keep on our networks. The last Annual Report of the Water and Waste Services in Portugal points to the seriousness of the situation, using terms such as'mediocre evolution' or 'unsatisfactory levels', referring to the prevailing indicators such as real water losses or the rehabilitation of conduct. It's irrational, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen — I would say even 'immoral' — we will continue to waste water in this way. We need to be able to deal with this problem, renewing our infrastructure, on a large scale, efficiently. And if this is the case in the water losses on the network, in the waste waters treated the levels of use are insignificant. Only 1, 1 % of treated waste water in Portugal is reused — 1, 1 %! Gardens and golf courses, street washing, fire fighting, industrial processes, a endless of multiple uses await the prioritization of government action in this area, the articulation with the authorities and the bet on research and development. We need to change and improve. It is also necessary to change and improve in order to strengthen the storage capacity of the trees and increase water reserves. It is not enough for a Council of Ministers resolution to stipulate the storage levels of each album, it is necessary to invest in the hydraulic structures and improve its capacity. Nothing serves packages of actions such as 2018, with ridiculous amounts that then neither properly executed are. A new investment plan is needed, bold and consistent, to act in a whole logic and increase storage capacity where there are greater restrictions. Even it is necessary to change and improve, looking also at groundwater and the state of our aquifers: some, where the consumption pressure is largely surpassed by natural recharge; others, with serious problems caused by illegal seizures, contaminations, salt intrusion or monitoring deficits. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, a State that does not ensure the sustainability of its natural resources is a state condemned to bankruptcy. And our underground waters represent 30 % of our public supply and are fundamental to our agricultural activity. It is also necessary to change and improve to innovate in solutions, as others do, which, in the face of water scarcity and curating environmental impacts, study and invest in aquifers artificial recharge processes as a complementary water management solution. We all know that the reduction in water availability will have an increasing impact on the territory. It is also necessary to look at rainwater as part of the solution and therefore the PSD also points to the strengthening of investments for the use of rainwater. Five months have passed since the end of the public consultation of the strategic plan PENSAAARP 2030 (Strategic Plan for Water Supply and Waste and Rainwater Management ) and nothing is known. Nothing advanced, but, in the preliminary version of this plan, the use of rainwater was already described as the "poor relative" of water services. We therefore believe that the Government and the Socialist Party will follow this initiative. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if water is essential to life, fundamental to our agriculture, determining for our economy and vital to the environment, it is not understood or accepted this repeated neglect in which the movement is clear in the Government Programme, the forgetfulness is known in the Budget, the absence is noted in the PRR, the execution is sustainable in the funds and in the PO SEUR ( Operational Programme Sustainability and Efficiency in the Use of Resources) and the responsible planning is removed from the government action. After several alerts, more than two dozen questions and initiatives on this issue, today, once again, the PSD Parliamentary Group places water at the centre of the parliamentary agenda with initiatives and concerns that it needs to fill. We see several parties dragging initiatives, demonstrating that there is a lot to do in various areas, also wanting things to change and improve. We will see if the Socialist Party, today without proposals or initiatives, will follow these concerns or will prefer to insist on sent narratives and systematic errors that have brought us here. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u92	The Bureau shall record an application for clarification from the honourable Member. Mr António Monteirinho, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor to put it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful for Mr Bruno Coimbra's intervention and, in this regard, I say that there is not much difference between the PS and the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u94	They're the same, that's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u95	In terms of the environment, both the PS and the PSD are walking in good practice, both at European level and worldwide. It would begin with the last project they presented, which has to do with the artificial recharge of aquifers, to transmit the following: in the management plans of the second generation hydrographic regions are defined as strategic and priority groundwater, as a supply resource, and it is important to pay attention to its quality and quantity. We know very well that there are scientific studies in this area, but some of them are still incipient. There is a developing pilot project in the Algarve, powered by this government, to know the level of risk of contamination of this water and to know whether or not we maintain, as the government wants and demands, water security as a priority of the current government. As I said, overall, there is some convergence, but today we have had the opportunity to hear a specialist say the following: "The priority should be in line with the reduction in water losses and not in the supply side. Therefore, this is the wager of the Socialist Party's Government. The difference is, uniquely and exclusively, in part of the priorities and in form and, in so doing, the Socialist Party is on the right path and according to good practices and good thinking, scientific and political, in the area of the environment. I would also like to say that there is also a bet on the Government of the Socialist Party on rainwater.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u96	What about the question?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u97	As you know, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the financing of the Urban Water Cycle is from the current Government of the Socialist Party and will be managed by the operational programmes of the Centre. Let me finish by saying that the use of these rainwaters at a time of precipitation leads to 40 % of urban consumption of the dwellings. We can therefore conclude that the strategy of the Socialist Party's Government is in line with the best European and world practices in the environment, never jeopardizing the water security of our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u98	To reply, Mr Bruno Coimbra has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u99	Answer what?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u100	Mr. President, Mr. António Monteirinho, I would like to thank you for your questions...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u101	Which ones?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u102	...and tell him I'm aware of the consortium where the University of Algarve has this project because of the reloading of aquifers. There are 23 countries and 224 projects. There are countries such as France, Germany or the Netherlands investing in and studying these matters, and that is also what the PSD wants. I want to thank you for your words, but I disagree with you when you say there is no difference between PS and PSD in this matter. There are, and there are many! Of course, in the total absence of the Socialist Party's reformist capacity in this matter. Besides, in recent years, the PS has said one thing and done another. We have seen this, for example, with regard to the priority which the Socialist Party says it has in relation to this matter, but then the whole year, until October, is spent so that water efficiency measures are known. The same thing happens to the concern of the aquifers, which he said, when three months ago a PSD project came down to safeguard a sustainable management plan for groundwater. I can continue to mention, for example, the executions of the PENSAAR ( Strategic Water Supply and Waste Water Sanitation Plan ) 2020, where, of the 41 indicators that had objectives based on the evaluation, the Socialist Party ensured that only 7 of these indicators were met. With regard to the funds, particularly the SEUR PO, according to the last monitoring report in 2022, more than 30 % of the Programme is to be implemented. And it could go out there: in the PRR, 90% of the country, at national level, is ignored; in this year's budget, up to headings for river monitoring disappear from 2022 to 2023... So there's a lot of things where we disagree, sir. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u103	To submit Bill No. 124 / XV / 1. a and the Resolution Project No 235 / XV / 1. Mrs Rita Matias has the floor of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, the debate we are conducting is of the utmost importance, as has already been said, because we have never, as today, had to discuss the efficient use of water resources—we have to combat waste water, I say—and, above all, we have to discuss a strategic vision and a long-term national plan of water management, which is something that has never been done. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u105	The arrival looks at water as an essential and fundamental good, indispensable to human life and wants to participate in this debate seriously, but I do not know if the other benches do. I don't know if they do, because it's been announced for decades what we live today. Nor do I know if they do so when we hear the Socialist Party say that, at European level, the PS has been walking alongside good European practices in the environment. I don't know if this is about laughing or crying, but that's not the reality of the Portuguese and our day-to-day.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u106	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u107	For decades we have heard specialists say there will be a decrease in water resources available on the Iberian Peninsula. In addition, in November last year, experts already told us that we were dry and alerted to the water stress that Portugal lives. Farmers and forest producers warned about the shortage of water they felt. But this theme is part of the geography curriculum of the 7th. This year, more than 10 years ago. Therefore, decades and decades later, there was no serious plan to manage water resources. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Three months after the extreme drought had been declared, the government reacted very startlingly, as if it had not been able to predict the phenomenon we are living today. Any 14-year-old child in Portugal knows that we have climate conditions that can lead us to extreme drought, but the socialist government did not know! It seems that the stars are all aligning themselves against the Socialist Party — it is war, it is the pandemic, it is the crisis, it is now the drought... — but it is not true. The fact is that the Socialist Government does not know the concepts of long-term vision, planning and sound management. The response given by the Government to this water crisis reflects this because it was based only on increasing consumer prices in regions with the greatest shortage, saving and raising awareness. But you can't want to be everything and the opposite, you can't want to raise awareness and then you're the first to misinformation and spread terror. How many environmental speeches are not made in this House in an apocalyptic tone? They say that radicals and extremists are us, but you are the ones who have rode the environmental agenda! [[Congrats from the CH.]] In this House, you impose your global agenda in a dogmatic way, as if a religion were being treated and as if all those who think critically were worthy of Hell! They have excluded the specialists from the equation, generated fear in people and, above all, offer no concrete solutions for their lives. In the name of the environment, they can only create more taxes, fight the profits of farmers and forest producers and fill us with bureaucracy. [[Congrats from the CH.]] So I just say to you that the common Portuguese is no longer available for your radical and utopian speech. So don't ask the Portuguese for any more sacrifices. The Portuguese are already sacrificed and do not want more cuts in consumption. This is the problem of the environmental agenda, because it is always the basis of the cut. It doesn't matter to cut, to manage well the resources that exist, to fight waste. And because Portuguese are tired of these global goals, of these apocalyptic and distant scenarios, the arrival presents in this debate a concrete proposal, at local level, on the level of proximity to the common citizen and his daily challenges. We ask that each municipality prepare a simple document, a fundamental document called « Water Matrixes », which is already applied in some municipalities and which consists of the identification, location and quantification of existing water resources in each municipality. Because we can't want to manage well what we don't know, because we can't want to fight 30 % of wasted water in Portugal if we don't figure out where we're losing it, I don't know what arguments you're going to put down this proposal. It is only for the Portuguese to realize whether you will want to stand by the hysterical alarmism and no solutions or by the practical solutions that arrive. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u108	To submit Bill No. 206 / XV / 1. a and the Resolution Project No 190 / XV / 1. a, from the Left Block, has the floor Mr Pedro Filipe Soares. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I wanted the irony that we had this debate on drought in a context where part of the country is threatened by fillies, but that no one is wrong, because they are the two sides of the same currency of climate change. What do scientists tell us, the same ones the negationists wanted to silence for decades? They say that the future is made of extreme phenomena, with periods of very dry and very heavy rain periods, and that, in fact, the rain falling during that period does not compensate, nor the water resources necessary for daily life, nor the resources that may exist on fraternal sheets. This was the reality that quickly arrived in Portugal. We know that many said this would not happen. It is seen that the negationists of the Arrival, who guarantee that the scientists were wrong, that this reality would not happen.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u110	Huh? Oh, my God! What? Oh, my God! They say the dams evaporated!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u111	They beat their hands when Trump denied that reality. They beat palms when Trump or Bolsonaro said that you can dismantle the Amazon, that you can destroy and pollute at will, because there is no problem for the planet! Now, reality shows how many problems there are for the Planet and we are paying very much for these problems. [[Protests by CH Member Pedro dos Santos Frazão.]] But it is true, too, that some of the proposals on the table throw a little side by side. When the problem we have is the lack of water in the dams and that puts the supply to the populations at stake, what the PSD proposes is that we increase the water retention capacity in the dams. Well, the problem is there's no water! We have more dams for the water we have, not the other way around. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u112	From that point of view, the PSD shoots next door. But let us look at the concrete reality of what needs to be answered. There is a lack of response to changing the way we use water, both in agriculture and in the economy, both in the way cities are structured and in the way the land planning does not promote good water management. From that point of view, there is a lack of proposals which the Left Block brings to this debate. It is true that, after proposing the wider use of waste water, the PSD also came to do so and so well! — the Government suggested that this should be implemented, even in the golf courses. Suggest, do not force! Suggest, because the government thinks it's just a suggestion it's going there. However, the same Government which is suggesting that the large economic groups, the large tourism industry, should then be imposed on the populations either by increasing the cost of water or by preventing them from having water in their taps. This is what we think is impossible to explain to people. We cannot tell the people that they have to make sacrifices in their lives, as we are doing in many councils throughout the year—there are councils in which the populations are supplied by autotanks and there were also councils in the Algarve with restrictions on access to water—when economic activities saw no change to be imposed on them by the State. From that point of view, this lack of courage causes us to be delaying our response to problems. Should waste water be used for water? Yes, they should be used, necessarily, for the stream of golf courses, which are withdrawing drinking water for a business. Yes, this should be done, in particular in the Algarve, where the populations ran out of water in a part of the year, but for the golf courses there was no restriction on access to water. It is incomprehensible that this reality remains! Secondly, as far as agriculture is concerned, can we make better use of water? We can respect more sustainable agriculture and also respect farmers, particularly small and medium-sized farmers, who are often hostage to the great interests of agriculture. It was to respond to these two structural problems that the Left Block brought these projects to debate. We will see whether, on the other side, there is indeed a desire to arrive at solutions or if there are more discussions about not leaving the place and leaving everything at the same time. They will not forgive us the next generations if we do so. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u113	Mr President, the Bureau shall record an application for clarification. Mr Nelson Brito of the Socialist Party has the floor to make it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u114	Mr President, he left two notes, from the outset, which relates to the use of water resources, particularly in the Mira, concerning the initiative of the Left Block. As we know, it is specified in the contract of granting the use of water for agriculture, for industry, for human consumption. What is proposed, i.e. the repeal of this concession contract, is not only groundless at the moment—so it is illegal, as we believe also demonstrates insensibility with regard to the associations of beneficiaries in this specific case of Mira. This generalized vision would certainly mean a death sentence for the association of small and medium-sized farmers who have made, throughout their association history, the use and management of these dams, ensuring, by this type of use, repeat, the quantification of agriculture, industry and consumption. So I wanted to ask: what are the advantages, the benefits, that the Left Block finds when withdrawing this concession? On the other hand, do you not see here also a purpose of wanting to weaken precisely the association of small and medium-sized farmers? With regard to the use of waste water for golf courses, the Government already has in this view a policy to encourage the reuse of treated waste water for compatible uses, where the golf courses are included — in fact, there is a warning of the SEUR PO dated December 2020 — with the forecast in the RPP of EUR 6 million for the Algarve, in particular, and of EUR 23 million, precisely for the adequacy of the ETARs (residual water treatment stations) in the production of treated waters. So there is a path that is being made and the Left Block should understand it as the path of good use of treated waste water. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u115	To reply, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u116	Mr President, Mr Nelson Brito, I thank you for your questions. I shall begin with the end: it is unsustainable and unqualified for the people that the Government has said, as I said, that what we will probably have is the increase in the cost of water. We already know that this is always the answer that the Socialist Party has kept to put on the table when we arrive at these situations. And for what? In order not to move in the installed interests. In the Algarve, people had restrictions on access to water, while golf courses had no restrictions on access to drinking water. Drinking water! He tells us that 'the government has suggested, the government has recommended, the government has appealed', but the government has not decided and that is the point! The government did not decide, but it could have decided. For years we have been discussing the same and the government has never decided, because it does not want to address the interests of the Algarve tourism groups. This is the question that's on the table. On the Perimeter de Rega do Mira, strange that a Member of the Socialist Party — when we have heard Mr. Prime Minister say in this Chamber, as we have often heard from the Socialist Party, that the state can be a good manager and has the capacity to respond to the population — now say that to defend that the State has a public water policy is to distrust associationism. Mr President, one thing doesn't hit the other: either the state is serious or not serious. [[Protests from PS Nelson Brito.]] We believe that yes, the state is the most serious person to defend the rights of public access to water. From that point of view, if the State does not, questioning access to water for food, then it is the State that is failing. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u117	To submit Bill No 234 / XV / 1. a, from the PCP, has the floor Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are two central ideas that we want to highlight in this debate. The first idea is that water and access to it should be considered within the framework of human rights. That is, in fact, what is enshrined by the United Nations. And this idea necessarily implies the frontal rejection of the commercialist conceptions of water as a business of millions for some multinationals. Second idea: in view of the situation, which has worsened over the years, of increasingly frequent drought periods and with increasingly serious impacts on our country, it is essential to view this problem as structural and therefore advance to structural responses and solutions. Of course, as we have always been, we are available for the debate on concrete, timely measures that can be equated in this area of water saving, storage, and rational management of this resource. Moreover, the problem of proposals on point measures lies in the risk of serious error in the absolutist generalization, in the cross-sectional application of rules and decisions, in general and abstract, transforming possible good ideas into potential further measures. The draft law presented by the CFP in this debate is a constructive contribution to essential work in the area of strategic planning in this area. We propose the creation of the national plan for structural prevention of the effects of drought, a plan that goes beyond mitigation and contingency measures; a plan that, from the concrete reality and forecast of needs, defines the necessary investments, pointing out the time horizons for its implementation. It is important to define and prioritize the use of water in dry conditions. For the CFP, it is necessary to prioritise the use of water for human use, public health, small and medium-sized agriculture adapted to the country's edafoclimatic conditions, the small and medium-sized industries and the safeguarding of workers' incomes, while also ensuring the service of ecosystems. There is a need for a plan to go further in preparing the country to deal with future drought phenomena, in order to prevent and minimize its effects, not only because of the adoption of exceptional contingency measures, today more necessary because of the lack of preparation and investment in the past. In order to address extreme drought phenomena, Portugal needs to develop and implement an integrated plan in which the needs for the use of water for multiple purposes are correlated with the appropriate and possible storage capacities, promoting the rational and efficient use of water as a factor of economic and social development, based on the universality of access to this resource to the detriment of its massive use and exploitation on a private and monopoly basis. The CFP proposal also points to specific areas in which this planning should advance: strengthening water storage capacity and programming of adaptation work for agricultural and agricultural activities. In the context of irrigation, it should be noted that the creation of water storage infrastructures associated with agricultural use enables the use of groundwater sources for other purposes, in particular for public supply. However, attention should be paid to the management and exploitation model of these resources, in order to ensure access to water by small and medium-sized farmers and family farmers. Mr António Monteirinho, of the PS, who spoke at the beginning of this debate, began by making a statement that is entirely true: « In this matter, PS and PSD do not have so many differences ». We couldn't agree any more, and we saluted the honourable Member for the frontality. Indeed, over the years and in successive governments, PS and PSD have conditioned investments in the sector to the business promotion strategy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u119	That's a bad conscience! There were six masters with the PCP voting in favour of the State budgets of the PS government!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u120	... using the Community funds as a political element of blackmail, to force the aggregation of water systems, invoking then the problems created to justify the way of privatization and business privilege, to the detriment of democratic control of water management. In the last 30 years, a strong offensive has been developed in Portugal against public water management, politically triggered by these successive governments and aiming to deliver water management and sanitation to the private sector. This offensive has been supported, among other measures, by the production of legislation, rules and standards, such as the imposition of sector verticalization and the consequent aggregations of subsystems at high and low levels, the limitation and / or refusal of access to Community funds to support projects to re-qualify water and sanitation networks, among others, with the ultimate aim of removing from the area of municipalities the management of water and sanitation services. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as the CFP has been proposing, it is urgent to develop a national water safety guarantee strategy, which goes through investment with more public means to manage, monitor and plan water resource management and to move forward with long-lost investments. We reaffirm that access to water is a right and it is not a business, so it is necessary to ensure robust and competent public management, to act in the preservation and protection of all water values, to guarantee the right to water and sanitation for all, to value public service and workers and to strengthen investment to take care of the future. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u121	Mr. Buno Dias, you have a request for clarification. To formulate it, I give the floor to Mrs Eunice Silvers of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft law that the CFP here presents to us, despite the fact that it concerns everyone, which is drought, reveals a lack of due cause of the responses and measures already adopted by the Government and in force to mitigate its effects, as well as evidence of a different set of failures and incongruences from the legal and normative point of view. It is clear from this that the legislative proposal does not comply with the current Water Law or with the current legal regime for the use of water resources,... [[Ah! That's the one!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u123	... legal arrangements for the establishment and management of multiple-purpose undertakings and the legal arrangements for territorial management instruments, in particular because of incompatibility with Articles 8. o and 12. the proposed here. From the planning point of view, it is also found that these proposals, presented by the CFP, only structure, in a different and more complex way, the plans and programmes that already exist, without any improvement.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u124	Just complicated, just complicated!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u125	The Prevention, Monitoring and Contingency Plan for Dry Situations or the existing Hydrographic Region Management Plans already foresee these and other measures, which go far beyond those which you bring us here. In fact, the preparation of 1 is already under way. the phase of the Regional Plans of Dry Management and the Ministry of Agriculture also has a set of initiatives to take place in the context of structural prevention of the effects of drought. So be it, ladies. Members of the CFP, I would like to ask the following question: do you know that, within the framework of the National Regadios Plan, 59 applications have already been approved, in a total of EUR 392 million, which have so far benefited 67 000 ha? [[P.S.'s applause.]] Do you know that within the framework of the PRR, is planned and is already developing the Multi-Friend Hydraulic Development Project of Crato, a value of EUR 47 million, covering 5000 ha? Do you know that the CAP ( common agricultural policy) strategic plan already exists, which will begin to be implemented in January 2023, providing for several interventions, including in support of efficient and sustainable water use and storage practices? by the way, Mr. Members don't know, and the PCP thus reveals total lack of knowledge of the cause...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u126	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u127	...with this bill that brings us here, which adds nothing new in the fight against drought. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u128	They were so friends...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u129	To reply, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Eunice Pratas, I was listening very carefully to your question and I was reminding myself of a very old saying that sometimes it is important to remember: « Who is not ashamed, everyone is yours! Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u131	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u132	I wanted to say that the attestation of ignorance that brought, with this fairet certainly greater than its will, translates, in fact, a arrogance that is daring, because when ignorance is bold and transforms itself into arrogance, political debate becomes more degraded. [[PS protests.]] And the political debate we have to do is around the concrete solutions that the country needs to face the structural problems it has.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u133	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u134	When we speak of a bill that Mrs. Deputies accuse of not being covered by the Water Law, I thank the last-minute news, but I have another news to give you: the Water Law, which you imposed on this country, is exactly a strategy of privatization and mercantillization of something that must be a human right! [[PCP applause.]] When we speak of a basic resource, a living condition for the population, it is important to take into account that even in the management of Community funds, in the national regulation, here in Portugal — which has nothing to do with what comes from Brussels — the regulations that your governments imposed on the urban water cycle put a 'green way' for privatization and tremendous obstacles to municipalities, which wanted to ensure public service to the people. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u135	But you approved six budgets!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u136	When she talks about investments related to the storage of water for agricultural purposes, she would like to leave here the challenge of telling us who will be the beneficiaries of these investments.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u137	You don't know!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u138	I was going to tell farmers, but I apologize and ask who are the shareholders of these companies that will benefit from this million investment. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u139	You've been testing Budgets for six years!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u140	To present the NAP initiatives, I now give the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I wanted the fate, indeed, that we were discussing the extreme and structural drought that affects the country on the day it is raining. However, this should not inhibit us and much less cause us to lose sight of the fact that this structural drought has come to stay and that it is so serious that not all the rain that is planned for this year will put an end to it. There are three concerns that should be mentioned in today's debate, given that, recently, this House has also adopted important measures, such as the adaptation of the National Water Plan to climate change, measures which, not being a magic formula to solve the problem, aim in some way to point out the path to the restoration of the water flows, the monitoring and mitigation of the effects of climate change. I would like to begin by talking about the Albufeira Convention, since Spain closed the tournaments for our own benefit, even failing to comply with the minimum values of 10 % of the annual flows. On the other hand, when Spain opens the tap, looks exclusively at its interests, and we know that what comes from the other side of the border ends up being water without control, contaminated with pesticides, such as glyphosate, which kills fish at hundreds, as we saw in the barrier of Almendra, in the Douro River. That is why, today, one of the key issues to be discussed is water management as a synonym for respect for the environment, even when it is shared from an international point of view. It is also important that there are incentives for this same monitoring and adaptation to climate change. As mentioned earlier, we cannot ignore that drinking water is being wasted today in areas where drought is most felt. For example, in the Algarve, where 7 in 100 l of water are wasted on something as superfluous as the golf courses. When much is spoken of in the waste of water and in the management of shared watersheds, we cannot fail to mention the individual responsibility of each of us. However, in order for this individual responsibility to exist, there must be incentive tools. That is why we want housing to have more water efficiency and we propose the reduction of VAT to 6 % in the provision of services aimed at the same objective, since the change must start in our homes but the State cannot ignore that, in the context of inflation and extreme poverty in which we live, there are fundamental mechanisms to answer all these issues.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u142	To present the initiative of the Free Party, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate is both a responsibility and an opportunity we must take advantage of. The gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party, in particular, who have the absolute majority and who are the basis of government support, have the obligation to take advantage of it. I am therefore grateful to the PSD Parliamentary Group, which has allocated this debate, and also to the parliamentary groups that have put forward proposals, because there are several good ideas for a situation where there are funds to implement them and in which there is an emergency to respond to. Both the proposal of the Left Block to make the water of the golf courses compulsory only with waste water, as well as the proposal of the CFP, with its national plan for preventing and monitoring the effects of drought, or the proposal of the NAP, with the suggestion of 6 % VAT for water efficiency works, all add a piece of solution and there are several that should be taken advantage of. The proposal for the Book has to do with the creation of a legal concept, which already exists in practice, for the use of so-called'scented waters' in the domestic environment. These are waters that can be reused, waters that, once the correct appliances are purchased, can be recycled. in this sense, we propose that the General Regulation of Public and Building Systems for the Distribution of Water and Waste Water Drainage becomes amended to count on this concept of grey water, and that there be eligibility for financing within the Environmental Fund for works and for the purchase of devices that allow the reuse and recycling of these waters. Portugal is one of the countries that is at the forefront of these problems. Over the past 20 years we have lost 20% of the water available and we need to take advantage of a debate like this so that we can better prevent the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u144	Mr Norberto Patinho of the Socialist Party now speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The regadio contributes to the adaptation and mitigation of the effects of climate change, promotes social cohesion and the sustained and balanced development of resilient territories, ensuring greater predictability and agricultural competitiveness. It was based on these assumptions that the Government of the Socialist Party advanced with the National Regadios Programme, which allows us, at national level, to have about 300 projects in operation, corresponding to an investment of 560 million euros in traditional regadios, modernization and rehabilitation of existing regadios and in new areas, security of dams, photovoltaic energy installations and studies to prepare investments in the future framework.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u146	You see why the PSD doesn't make any difference?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u147	The National Regadios Programme covers, throughout the continent, new areas of recreation and areas of rehabilitation and modernization of the existing regadio. The PS is proud of the decisive contributions to the expansion, modernization and rehabilitation of irrigation systems, responsible for the revolution in agriculture that we have witnessed in recent years. It was the Socialist Party that, when it arrived to the Government, decided to extend the Alqueva river perimeter, whose project had been completed by the previous government, and also to obtain financial means for its implementation. This is the only way to move forward with the Reg running blocks of Monsaraz, Viana do Alentejo, Vidigueira, Póvoa, Moura, Messejana and the link to the album of Monte da Rocha, among many others. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u148	John, knock your hands out that this is yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u149	Mr João Dias, we cannot, together with the people, claim that we are in favour of the water blocks and here we are against them. [[Rice from PS Pedro do Carmo's deputy.]] It was the Government of the Socialist Party that made the decision to move forward with the Project Multiple Crato Hydraulic Development Undertaking, and the Pisão dam, to which it referred money from the PRR. We are determined to continue to build long-term impact solutions, including through the implementation of water efficiency plans and studies such as the Kingdom 2030, which will enable us to design the strategy for the future at the level of public and sustainable recreation. Unable to find in the draft resolutions presented by the right and the extreme right and concerning the expansion of the regadio and the construction, modernization and rehabilitation of the proposed regadio systems or recommendations that are not being implemented, I interpret the presentation of these projects as an incentive for the continuation of the policies followed by the Government of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u150	Mr Rui Rocha, of the Liberal Initiative, now speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would almost let the discussion between the PS and the PCP continue, because you have your grace, but I will make my speech. What brings us here today is the discussion of the water problem and, basically, in this matter as in many others, there are two possible ways. There is a first way, which puts on development, which places on growth, technology and innovation to solve a serious problem, which is the water problem. But there is always a second version, which looks at problems that are real and that take advantage of the existence of these problems to have an immobilist vision, a paralysing vision, a prohibitionist vision. There are a number of proposals which are currently under discussion that are in the first direction, which bring solutions. The Liberal Initiative may not fully agree with those solutions, but the Liberal Initiative, of course, will make it feasible to-CL- them and accompany-CL- them. But then there is a set of proposals that follow the other line, which follow the most prohibitive, immobilist line, which seek to create problems and add problems to those that already exist. This, in fact, is not very different from what happens every time we discuss sustainability issues in this House and, therefore, what we see is often about sustainability, we have, for example, proposals that imply decline. Now, the decline is to return to the past; then you can discuss these proposals and see how many years into the past you want to go back. The decrease implies a 20 % reduction in consumption and production, which would lead us, more or less, to 2010 - 2011. But perhaps that is not enough, because the least developed countries have less consumption and, therefore, the declining policies would force those countries that have more consumption to adjust this issue more aggressively. So for those who defend the need for decrease, we might be talking about backing back 30, 40, 50, 60 years old, I don't exactly know. For a country like Portugal, we could be talking about going back until the 1970s. Well, I don't want to go back to the 70s, I don't want my kids to go back to the 70s, I don't want my family to go back to the 70s, and I don't want the ladies. Members turn back to the 70s, even those who even like that idea of decline. Therefore, the question of water really has to do with these kinds of approaches that are diverse. It is obvious that there are here a number of proposals that are valid, we will support those that seem interesting to us and we will be in a position, after we discuss the Budget, to present the proposals of the Liberal Initiative on water issues,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u152	Where are they?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u153	... because many of those who exist here today are partial, but it is clear that we need to discuss the storage of water. When we're talking about water storage, we're talking about dams. We know that when there are dams, there is evaporation; it is true, it is the cycle of water, we cannot counter this, it is true that there is evaporation, but we need to discuss and present concrete proposals for distribution...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u154	I didn't bring anything! It was today!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u155	...and, therefore, we have to make water pass from the places where it is abundant to the places where it is missing. It is clear that we have to have proposals for the reuse of waste water, of course we have to discuss irrigation and of course we have to discuss desalination. Now, the Liberal Initiative will always be on the side of the proposals put forward that aim to solve the problems that really exist with innovation, with technology and development, and will always be on the opposite side of those proposals that bring immobilism, paralysis and ban. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u156	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. To make this request, I will give the floor to Mr Rui Tavares of the Free.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u157	Mr President, Mr Rui Rocha, spoke of decline and return to the 1970s. I do not remember any previous intervention which defended it here, but I have doubted that I would like to see it clarified: what is the assessment that the Liberal Initiative makes the privatization of water distribution systems, in particular the fact that many municipalities in Portugal have been heavily indebted because of the privatization of water distribution. I know one near my land that has become the second most indebted municipality in the country with increases in the order of 200 %. I would like to know whether the Liberal Initiative believes that the path of privatization of water distribution is a path to or if it is critical of such privatization.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u158	To reply, Mr Rui Rocha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u159	Mr President, Mr Rui Tavares, there is a basic problem on this issue. It is that nowadays it is described—and the data are official—that one of the major problems the country has with regard to water has to do with the efficiency of water distribution. There are very large, very significant losses — the last report on the subject speaks of about 30 % of losses in distribution, therefore in the low distribution — and, Mr President, the generality of the systems that have this problem is public systems.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u160	That's extraordinary! It's extraordinary!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u161	By answering your question specifically, we do not demonize solutions or defend blind solutions. We understand that it is necessary, when the system is public, that it works and, when the system is private, that it works as well. We demand efficiency for both, we do not demonize solutions and we want efficient solutions for the country. This is what we want and we also want water not to be lost because the system is inefficient, which is what happens, in particular, in the public network that exists today. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u162	But what assessment do they make of privatization and indebtedness? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u163	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr João Moura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u164	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, in this Parliament, we have several initiatives from various political forces, many of them, or almost all, with some virtues, others with some problems. But in most cases we have brought to this Parliament a deep reflection on an existing problem in Portugal, which is the water problem. Our country has suffered a problem of extreme drought until recently, and today, after hearing several interventions by the Socialist Party, it seems that everything is all right, that everything is done and that this country is at the thousand wonders.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u165	He's not, but he's on his way!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u166	I would like to point out here that it is not because it rained today that the structural problems of water are solved in Portugal. Far from it! The water problems in Portugal are far from solved and today the various political parties have brought here a set of solutions. I remind this Parliament that more than 90 % of the water running through the rivers—of that which rained today and is going to rain in the next few days—is going towards the sea and we, intelligently and using the Water Law, could use it for energy and other purposes, such as agriculture: we could expand the agricultural area in Portugal; we could have a plan to increase irrigation; we could use it to make a set of upgrades of agricultural equipment to make better use of water; we could create the possibility for farmers, with the rain that came today, to create shells. The government has funding initiatives for the creation of tanks, but it also creates difficulties for them to implement these forms of water reservoirs. It is clear that modern agriculture uses water very efficiently. The agricultural sector does not use water, uses it and transforms it into food. And in the face of all this, what does the Government of Portugal do? He makes announcements, he makes promises, he does studies, but in a concrete way, to solve the most frequent drought problems—because climate phenomena and climate change actually exist— he does nothing! The challenge we put here, from the PSD bench, which today presented a set of legislative initiatives, as well as other benches, is that they take advantage of our work and do something about it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u167	For an intervention on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Pedro Frazão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in fact, I wanted to say to the bench of the Left Block that is very wrong. The coming party is a party of conservatives and therefore we are also conservatives in nature. In fact, in the history of the century. XX, the great crimes against the environment were done by the nations ideologically your friends. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Russia, China, Venezuela, all committed great environmental crimes and also against water resources. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are here under the warning of the IPMA (English Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere ) of an atmospheric river that is falling on our heads, but the truth is that this water will all be lost to the sea. And why? Because APA (Portuguese Environment Agency) does not allow our farmers to build small acids, small shells and small systems of water retention and irrigation, so that we can have more agriculture and produce food in Portugal. In addition, farmers who already have these systems pay millions of euros in water rates that are going right to the Environmental Fund, which is going to be done! — instead of being used to give more quality to environmental and irrigation systems, they are for other purposes of the Environmental Fund. Why? Because this PS and this government put a lot of water on farmers, but they can't keep it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u169	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u170	See, for example, the Spanish Government, also a socialist, linked to the extreme left, which closed the water taps to Portugal. What about the PS government?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u171	Nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u172	Nothing! Be impatienced and serene. Our National Water Council, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I haven't met for three years. Now he has recently gathered and has come to us echoes that the meeting was a real storm but had no conclusions. Therefore, this government is always not to give bad news, not to scare Portuguese and never to precaution. in this case, he was unable to prevent drought. The technique is always: "Let's see if it rains." The problem is that, in fact, it does not rain and that is not a wish. If it doesn't rain—of course! — It is not the government's fault, it is the climate's fault. But it's not climate fault, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, because we already knew, the scientists warned us. This map is 2013, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. And from 2013 to here the PS was most of the time in power and here the entire scientific community already said— irrespective of the causes, that we will not discuss—that Portugal was going to be in serious water stress. The speaker displayed a map.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u173	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u174	And because they do not promote water retention in Portugal, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen? Therefore, the party wants to promote water retention and we also bring a draft resolution that aims to promote, in conjunction with APA, with the National Water Authority, the National Authority of Regadio and the Fenareg (Federación Nacional de Regantes de Portugal ), the definition, with an urgent nature, of an action plan to ensure centralized management of the different national watersheds.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u175	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u176	And also, in conjunction with Fenareg itself, we want to ensure that the Community and national funds are guaranteed to cover all of the investment needs in public irrigation, but with a proper rate of implementation, not with the level of implementation that we are used to by the Ministry of Agriculture. Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party, farmers need water to produce food, to capture carbon dioxide and to produce oxygen. [[Let's give him a round of applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u177	To close the debate, Mr Hugo Patrício Oliveira of the PSD now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In this discussion on water resources, depending on the political colour, there are those who see the glass half full and there are those who see the glass half empty. But outside these walls, in the real country, we have less and less water. The buildings are with minimum storage levels, the aquifers are at risk, there are villages supplied by fire trucks, farmers cannot water. More: there are regions like the Algarve, at risk of not having water for a year. We have brought to this debate constructive proposals aimed at several dimensions of the problem, because we need to reduce network losses, increase the use of treated waste water, strengthen the storage capacity of the trees, protect the aquifers and value the waste water. We need the government to play its part and speed up the adoption of measures. It is not enough to promise millions and to act with successively delayed plans. This government seems to be always waiting for it to rain to say « after all, the problem is not so serious». We cannot be deluded with so much illusion. The former Minister of the Environment said he did not have the condemnation of raining; the current expects it to rain to hide the incompetence of the government team. The Algarve has a Regional Plan of Water Efficiency that neither the implementation schedule has; the Plan of Alentejo has been in preparation since 2020 and no end to view; the National Programme for the Efficient Use of Water ended in 2020 and has never been revised; the public consultation of PENSAARP 2030 ended five months ago and it is not even seen its publication. With regard to the Albufeira Convention, Spain violates the annual flows of the Douro and the Portuguese Government says that it is all right. The new Spanish plan for the Tejo river basin, everything indicates, can bring reductions of 40 %, and what will the government do? We don't know. Projects for the Tejo basin have been studied for more than a year and endlessly. This Government or the Council of Ministers can understand water efficiency measures. At the end of September, after one year of drought, the Government approved the Energy Savings Plan, in which water efficiency measures were torn apart and hidden. We have a more concerned government to dance the rain of millions than to implement the reforms to the water sector, which it needs so much to serve the people better. Finally, Mr President, a small tale: imagine a swamp and the government on a boat. The travel partners were the first to jump out and the government, to put water and with fear of drowning, nor do you realize that the boat is in the mud created by you, because there is no water anymore to support the boat. This is the film that the government has not yet wanted to see, but which is, in fact, in all the country's cinemas. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u179	We thus conclude point 3 of our agenda. We move on to point 4, which concerns the assessment of draft resolution No 266 / XV / 1. a ( Committee on European Affairs) — Opinion on the Proposal for a Council Directive establishing the system for the exercise of the right to vote and eligibility in elections to the European Parliament of citizens of the Union resident in a Member State of which they do not have nationality ( reformulation) COM ( 2021 ) 732 and the Proposal for a Council Directive laying down the rules for the exercise of the right to vote and eligibility in the elections of citizens of the Union resident in a Member State of which they do not have nationality ( reformulation ) COM ( 2021 ) 733. For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Meireles has the floor as soon as the House permits.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u180	Mr President, first of all I welcome the rapporteurs and the rapporteurs. Ladies and gentlemen, when European Union citizenship was created by the Maastricht Treaty in 1992 — the famous one! — this amendment of the original treaties has generated fears, mistrusts and much controversy, although it can be found today that there was no reason for this, because it is only a citizen of the Union who has the nationality of a Member State, i.e. citizenship of the Union is a sum operation, it is not a subtraction operation and obviously does not replace it. In addition to this concept, a number of rights were obviously introduced, of which the most important political rights, which determine that citizens of the European Union enjoy active and passive elective capacity in two types of elections, local elections and for the European Parliament, in case they are displaced from their home state and under the same conditions as the nationals of those States. This has had very interesting implications for Portugal because, with regard to the Portuguese who lived, lived, studied or worked in States such as France, Germany or Luxembourg, the local elections, in particular, allowed them to have prominent positions and to throw themselves into extraordinarily important positions in local power. Although with less expression, the same happened in Portugal with regard to citizens of other Member States. But of course these rights would have to be regulated, and that is what happened through directives which, along with reality and time, needed to be reviewed. That is what is at stake here in this draft resolution on the reformulation and improvement of two proposals for directives which, as I said, deal with active and passive elective capacity in local elections and in the European Parliament by 2024. However, a first note: the Government referred to this House in legal terms information containing a summary of the proposal, as well as a working paper by the European Commission on its impact assessment, but did not refer an analysis of the implications of the proposal or the position it intends to adopt, not knowing whether or not this position is defined so far and whether it is feasible, this despite these initiatives call for a very relevant debate, consistent with the framework of other public policies of the European Union and the quality of its democracy as well as of the Member States. First of all, what is the intention of this reformulation of directives? It is to avoid multiple voting or multiple candidacy, i.e. that a citizen cannot apply or vote in two or more Member States, thus providing for the integrity of the elections. However, I must note that there are some issues that are problematic about transposition into the domestic legal system, national in this case, these directives, and all this is the result of the inaction of this government over the years. First and foremost, there will be a need for the development of technological means in order to ensure all the obligations that would increase the electoral administration and the Portuguese state. I am referring only, and as an example, to the communication to the citizens of other Member States resident in Portugal of information as specific as the state of registration, the date of election, as and where to vote, the rules relating to their rights and obligations, either as voters, or as candidates, including prohibitions, incompatibilities, as well as penalties applicable in the event of violation of and other electoral rules. In other words, the adoption of these amendments may impose obligations on the Portuguese electoral administration which are impracticable, such as the collection of data on mobile citizens who voted, information which is not organized or is easily consolidated. Therefore, the PSD fears that the proposed transposition period, which is until May 2023, will be very short for the changes that are necessary. This is because the inability of this government has already been demonstrated quite often and leads us to fear that commitments may be made by the State, with regard to the electoral process, which then become ineligible in the light of the national organisational framework. It is that the PSD likes to honour its commitments at national level, but also at international level. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u181	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Miguel Iglesias.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u182	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Both proposals for a Council directive which we are debating here and on which we give an opinion — the system of voting and eligibility in elections to the European Parliament of citizens of the Union resident in a Member State which does not have nationality and the establishment of the rules for the exercise of the right of vote and eligibility in the elections of citizens of the Union resident in a Member State whose nationality is also not a Member State — are included in a comprehensive legislative reform strategy with a view to improving the democratic participation and citizenship processes of the Member States of the Union, having been included in the Commission Work Programme for 2021 a legislative initiative specifically aimed at improving the electoral rights of mobile citizens of the European Union, as referred to, and well as the opinion of 1. the Commission for COM ( 2021 ) 733, whose rapporteur was Pedro Delgado Alves, and the opinion of 1. the Commission for COM ( 2021 ) 732, whose rapporteur was Mr Carneiro, thanks both to the precise and accurate analysis of the matters in question. In essence, what is at stake in both proposals is to ensure the right to freedom of movement, ensuring the electoral rights of European citizens, either in the elections or in the elections, which will already take place in 2024, hoping that the common problems detected in virtually all Member States, in which voters have been prevented from voting for reasons of lack of clarification or misinformation of officials and electoral authorities, are effectively eliminated. There cannot simply be discrimination between national citizens and citizens who are in mobility in each country. We have to fully guarantee the rights to all of them, and we do not talk about anything that happens in the vacuum with Excel numbers. Many Portuguese citizens are in this situation, living, working or studying in other countries of the European Union and want to participate freely in these elections, want to participate democratically in the places where they live, as their right should be. According to the Commission's working paper on the two directives, according to Eurostat, reporting on 2020 data, there are 13 million and a half of the citizens living in mobility in other countries of the European Union, of which about 12 million are citizens of legal age to vote, representing 3, 25% of the electoral universe of the Union. Having said this, however, I would also like to highlight some aspects here regarding the confidence of citizens in the European institutions and their democratic participation, and it is also important to reflect on the electoral participation of Portuguese in Portugal. The post-election Eurobarometer held in 2019, six months after the European elections, highlighted some important data regarding the electoral participation of the Union and Portugal, in particular : the participation rate in the European Union reached 50, 6 %, 8 percentage points more than in 2014, and the participation of younger voters was extraordinary, with their participation rate increased by 14 percentage points among voters under 25 years of age and 12 percentage points between voters aged 25 and 39. The sense of civic duty was pointed out by 52% of the respondents when they considered voting for elections for the European Parliament, optimistic and hopeful numbers, no doubt. However, Portugal was in clear contradiction. Abstention in Portugal reached 69, 3 %, 3 percentage points above 2014, i.e. not only had a lower participation of Portuguese citizens in the elections compared with the other countries of the Union, as the trend was negative compared with previous elections. The main reason to justify the decision not to vote was lack of confidence or dissatisfaction with policy in general, followed by lack of knowledge about the European Union, the European Parliament or the European elections. What is somewhat intriguing is that even though the Portuguese are European voters who are less important to the European Parliament, because of their abstention, they are among the citizens who express greater confidence in the European Union. In the Eurobarometer on the future of Europe, of 2021, 76 % of Portuguese expressed positive membership of Portugal in the European Union, with only 2 % to consider being a negative factor. Although quite contradictory in the same barometer, the Portuguese say, by a large majority, that the best way to ensure that their voice is heard by decision makers in the European Union is simply to vote in the European elections, those elections where we have beaten record of abstention. These data are publicly known, not to draw any negative portrait of our relationship with Europe, but to reflect on how we can improve these processes and absorb people's concerns, as has been done recently at the Conference on the Future of Europe, in which thousands of Portuguese of all ages participated. Mr. President, I'll be done. As the two proposals we are discussing here emphasise, and well, the European institutions and their respective Member States, where we are included, are working to improve citizens' access to their right to vote and eligibility, either in the elections or in the European elections, attempting to eliminate any discrimination that would call into question this fundamental right of a European citizen who is for any reason in mobility in a country of which he is not a national and, at least, to question his electoral rights in his country of origin. In conclusion, there are two proposals which naturally go in the right direction. They are positive for democratic participation, they are positive for us to continue to improve the democratic process and European citizenship, they are positive for us to strengthen people's confidence and security in building the European project. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u183	Mr Bruno Nunes has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Public recognition, that is what we have heard here. Public recognition that we have had a difficulty in organizing our own electoral process—and we just need to see what happened in the elections in Europe they elected, in fact, the President of the Assembly of the Republic. This reformulation and improvement of this transposition, scheduled until 2023, bring to this Parliament a number of questions. And our intervention is very logical to see whether the parties, in particular the Socialist Party — which has the majority in this House — as well as the Democratic Social Party, consider whether or not we should think that the electoral process and all the electoral legislation should be reviewed. These transpositions have several issues that need to be examined. When Europe was created, in its genesis it had the defence of the European space, the defense of nations, respecting the cultures, traditions, sovereignty and independence of peoples. In fact, we've been good students. In order to demonstrate to Europe that we have transposed all the directives, we continue with excessive subservience to Brussels and often fail to realize the consequences that this could have on national territory. We are in fact defending Europe; we are in favour of a strong Europe, a Europe which defends its sovereignty, which has its nations with their culture and their identity well-winned. We do not want to lose our sovereignty or accept a retail sale from Portugal, whether it is through elections or other.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u185	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u186	When we look at what is proposed to us, we clearly understand that we allow, with this transposition, that it is not necessary to have nationality to be elected in Portugal, at the same time as our emigrants residing out there if they want to apply to the authorities in their lands are not accepted by the electoral law currently in force. in this same country, we discriminate our emigrants, accepting with great mouth all that comes from outside. [[Congrats from the CH.]] We cannot accept these logics without at least thinking about a reformulation of the electoral law. We believe that transpositions should be validated but accompanied by bills that can value what we believe in and our position on Europe. This transposition clearly raises an urgent need for the revision of the electoral law. It is urgent to review the electoral law, not only on the question of the circle of compensation, not only in the revision of the electoral circles, which are made according to PS and PSD and must be reviewed, but also in the way of electing and who has the power to be elected. Taking a few examples and doing a mere exercise here concerning the last elections: the Board of Freguesia de Arroios has passed 10 000 residence certificates in recent years — 10 000 residence certificates!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u187	Just on the street!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u188	According to the data we have available, only 44% of the Arroios population voted in the last elections, which means 12,000 voters. This means that those who were admitted to residence — 10 000 — past ones would win, with an absolute majority, the Frequencies Board with votes from people who did not necessarily have any connection to Lisbon, Portugal or whatever. [[Congrats from the CH.]] My gentlemen, these 10 000 certainly meant that the Free Councillor, for example, would not be elected in Lisbon. [[L. Protests.]] And the doubt that remains here is whether these 10 000 will not have been to elect him to the City Hall. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u189	Total ignorance!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u190	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP, Mr Alfredo Maia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u191	Mr. President and Mr. Members: The CFP does not follow draft resolution No 266 / XV / 1. the, proposed by the Committee on European Affairs. On the contrary, it recommends that the Government take action against the proposal for a Council directive on the right to vote and eligibility in elections to the European Parliament of citizens of the Union resident in a Member State whose nationality they do not possess. The realization of the active and passive electoral capacity of the citizens of the Union is not at stake but the risk of violating the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. In addition to an attempt to harmonise electoral standards for each Member State, which, in the Portuguese case, concerns Parliament's exclusive competence, the proposal aims to introduce disproportionate and illegitimate control mechanisms for foreign citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u192	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u193	As the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees well emphasizes, there are, and I will quote, "at least two points which are presented as potentially problematic. Do not keep on seeking. ” 'The first' — and I quote again —'relationships with the organisation of the electoral process, with the obligation of Member States to collect individualised statistical information on mobile citizens, from the outset the identification of whether they voted or not. This procedure, whose practical implementation, moreover, faces obstacles such as the manual or computer analysis of electoral books for data collection, not only does it apply — nor could it — to national citizens but also entails the risk of damage to the rights of the generality of protected citizens in the Portuguese legal order.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u194	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u195	This is the case with the protection of personal data in the face of administrative control over whom you have voted or who has ceased to vote, which is unacceptable even if it aims to prevent duplicate voting. There is no form of individualised statistical treatment of the exercise of the right to vote in Portugal, nor is it believed that this House will ever approve.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u196	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u197	The second point referred to in the report concerns the deadline for transposition of the Directive, 31 May 2023, i.e. within seven months. It is manifestly short for the proposed changes, which would involve the development of technological means that would ensure the new obligations of the electoral administration, if by any chance they were accepted by the Portuguese State, and we call upon them not to be accepted. However, without prejudice to the principle position of the CFP, which I have indicated, we should ask: what evaluation the government has made and what evaluation will have the ability to do yet, of the profound legal implications, materials, practices, etc. the amendments of the Portuguese electoral organization? And how, and with what legitimacy, would the true civic tracing of foreign voters be operationalized? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u198	For an intervention, Mr Bernardo Blanco has now spoken of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u199	Mr. President and Mr. Members: Even if taking into account some of the risks outlined by either the PSD Parliamentary Group and, now by the CFP Parliamentary Group, the Liberal Initiative generally agrees with this initiative by the European Commission because, obviously, it deepens European citizenship and allows citizens who are in mobility to see effectively their electoral rights guaranteed, now also with less bureaucracy. But I would also like to leave a note: we agree with Mr Miguel Iglesias on the concern about high levels of abstention and we have a considerable amount of a year and a half to correct this until the next European elections. It seems clear to me that the PS, having an absolute majority, and more than one hundred Members, has clearly the responsibility to start the work. We will, of course, also do our part so that it is possible to remove Portugal, according to my opinion, from the 'top five' of abstention at European level, which is clearly serious and a clear distance from the citizens to the European institutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u200	That of abstention is settled by a Community regulation!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u201	We have about a year and a half to fix that. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u202	For an intervention on behalf of the Free Party, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u203	Mr. President and Mr. Members: in a debate in which things are sometimes very different — they confuse authentic elections with Europeans — claiming that Portuguese are damaged, because foreigners would be candidates for European elections here and Portuguese cannot be out there, forgetting that the first time this happened...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u204	Don't! They can't be here! You don't understand!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u205	Mr. Member, if you hear you can learn anything, because it was by chance even your constituency that the first Portuguese Member who was a candidate in Italy, Pedro Canavarro, the PS and the PRD, benefited from the possibility of being a candidate in a third country, in another Member State of the European Union. It's about specific people. These are the millions of European citizens who live in another Member State of the Union and either go to a voting section and cannot vote or who would like to be candidates for the country where they reside and cannot be. It is therefore a matter of making it easier, in an administrative way, that this can be done without having to change the national electoral law—because it would be a violation of sovereignty there—and making an advertising campaign so that people can know their rights where they can and cannot vote, to prevent people from trying to vote twice, which is clearly a good thing. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] It is necessary to go further and build, of 27 national democracies, a club of democracy, a rising European democracy, which can deal with authoritarianisms in this outside world, and also within the European Union, allies of some political groups that are here.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u206	No one hit the palms! You wanted to, but you didn't wear palms!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u207	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, from the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u208	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is, on the part of the European institutions, as we have discussed several times in this Parliament, an intention to change the rules and rights of citizens and also to change the electoral rules which States, sovereignly, decide on themselves. It is not the case for this initiative, which aims to improve the rights of citizens with regard to mobility and the possible participation of citizens from other Member States in the local elections or elections in the countries in which they reside. from the Left Block, we consider that the principle itself is acceptable and laudable. The question is in all those problems that have already been identified as likely to be caused either by the final version of the current proposal or by the transposition of the proposal itself. Our acceptance is therefore conditional on the assumptions that are on the table, which must ensure that problems on the horizon are not materialised, that the rights of citizens, which are not called into question by citizens' rights, are safeguarded by the way in which the different States within the European Union deal with fundamental rights and freedoms. We have never forgotten, in these decisions, the example of Hungary or Poland and how this can result in the abolition of citizens' rights, as a result of the action taken by these States against their citizens, whether they live internally or within Europe. From that point of view, we hope that, until these intentions are turned into law, there will be a real safeguard of citizens' rights and a guarantee that the various problems will be removed. Therefore, our acceptance is conditional and our vote will thus express it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u209	That is how we close this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u210	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u211	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, would you like to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u212	Mr President, I had registered myself for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u213	All right. I apologize on behalf of the Bureau for not having this record and I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u214	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Despite the reservations already mentioned here regarding this process of transposition of the directives, it is never too much to remember that we have repeatedly spoken in this House about the importance of eliminating barriers that prevent citizens from gaining access to the right to vote, both for the autarchics and for the presidents.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u215	What about the autarchics? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u216	There were several times when we spoke of the criteria, depending on the distance, of the disparity that exists up to the availability of voting tables, as in other elements that often lead to spending on a citizen who is in mobility to be able to vote and exercise a right that is absolutely fundamental. But the reason for being and the principle emanating from this amendment is quite relevant. On the one hand and on the other hand, because it brings more efficiency to the electoral process, simplifies and makes registration faster and brings gains to the voters and to the administration itself; on the other hand, because it can also bring greater transparency in relation to one aspect that has already been discussed, the limitation of fraudulent situations of multiple voting. For your corrections, it will certainly be in further debate and for which we will be here. But with regard to the concerns, particularly in the case of the local authorities, which have already been expressed here, I would remind you that, for the right to vote, there are citizens who cannot vote but who pay taxes, in particular generating more than EUR 1 billion annually. These citizens should not only have duties, they should also have rights and that should not be disregarded, at least by the democratic political forces of this House of the Republic. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-19.u217	We now close the debate and, therefore, the agenda. The next plenary meeting will be tomorrow, Thursday, for 15 hours, with the following agenda item: from the first point of view of the Bill No 25 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Extends the scope of the special system of expropriation and establishment of administrative services for the execution of projects integrated into the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme to projects covered by the Recovery and Resilence Plan. The second point concerns the assessment of Bill Nos 267 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — allows marketers of the liberalised natural gas market to have access to the retailer’s latest wholesale resource channel, 314 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Ensure access by all marketers to regulated natural gas rates and 341 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Simplifies access to regulated energy tariffs and determines its continuity and the creation of regulated gas tariffs for storage and channelling. The third point concerns the assessment of Resolution Projects Nos 2 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Increase in national minimum wage and 217 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government increase national minimum wage and public administration salaries. The fourth point concerns the debate of Resolution Projects Nos 247 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Student support and student housing requirement, 250 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Recommends that the Government take urgent measures to support the housing of displaced higher education students and the creation of under-used state-owned university residences and 256 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Recommends that the Government accelerate procedures for the construction of new university residences and draft Law No 333 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Extraordinary Supplement to the Social Stock Exchanges of Higher Education, 340 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Creation of an extraordinary complement to scholarships in higher education applicable to the school year of 2022 / 2023, 342 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Strengthening housing support in Higher Education and 343 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Allow autonomous taxation at a reduced rate of 10 % applicable to income relating to housing contracts concluded with higher education students. Finally, the fifth and last point is the assessment of Bill No. 221 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Ensures the maintenance of the protection of shops with history that have passed to NRAU until December 31, 2027, amending Law No 42 / 2017 of June 14, and 236 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates an autonomous lease regime for economic, association and cultural activities. See you tomorrow and very good afternoon. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 7 minutes.]]
