ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. I declare the sitting open. [[It was 9 hours and 44 minutes.]] The gentlemen. Authorities can open the galleries to the public. Our plenary session today has a number of points on the agenda, so I would ask everyone to keep up with this in regiment times. Before giving the floor to the Secretary of Bureau Maria da Luz Rosinha for the reading of the dossier, I would ask that we create conditions for our work to take place. I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Members who stand up to sit or leave the Chamber and make the necessary silence so that we can hear each other and also ask for maximum restraint in the separate parts, which are regiments, but which have rules of courtesy and good education that are absolutely indispensable. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very good day to all and to all. Today's file is very short, consisting only of the announcement of the entry into the Bill Table No 122 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which drops to 1. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u3	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Let us begin today's agenda on which the first point is the urgent debate required by the Arrival under Article 72. the Regimento, about the chaos installed in the emergency services of gynecology and obstetrics of the country. To open the debate, Mr Ventura, of the Parliamentary Group of the United States of America, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u4	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister : The theme of the urgent debate that brings us here today is chaos in health services. I would like to begin by greeting Mrs Health Minister who has been hiding these days and who has finally decided to appear in the sovereignty body before which she is responsible, and solely responsible, for Parliament. During the days when he avoided giving his face, responding to journalists and politicians, he knew that sooner or later he would be called to this Parliament to give the explanations he did not want to give to the Portuguese. When a baby dies for lack of care and when thousands of people have closed health services, the minister of a worthy democracy does not flee, does not hide and does not hide his message; the minister of a worthy democracy gives her face, assumes the problems and proposes solutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u6	I would therefore like to remind you of the chronology of the last days which led him to request this urgent debate and its presence in this plenary: on 10 June, a pregnant woman lost her baby at the Queen's Caldas hospital ; on 11 June, she closed the obstetric urgency of the Beatriz Angelo Hospital in Loures ; on 12 June, the same closure happened in Braga ; on 13 June, the same closure in São Francisco Xavier, in the emergencies ; on 14 June, she was at Garcia Orta Hospital ; on 14-20 June, in Portimão, the emergencies were closed – moreover, they are still closed at the time we are having this debate, Mrs Minister, at the time when she is sitting in front of this Parliament. In Elvas, Portalegre, Ponte de Sor, Portimão and in many other places that I will refrain from identifying here, the emergencies are closed. The emergencies of Barreiro / Montijo were closed tonight and are still closed at this time and the urgents of the hospital in Braga closed an hour ago, today, and so they will remain until tomorrow. This is the portrait of a country without health services, with chaos everywhere and with a minister who only came to Parliament because it was required by the Rules of Procedure to come in to give such explanations. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister : This debate has an objective, force it to give — or ask you to at least — explanations about what you intend to do to resolve the health chaos. There are 850 obstetricians in the SNS (National Health Service), at the moment, with about 100 reformers-CL-will be going to be in the coming years. In 2021, we had the highest percentage of ever emigration of doctors in Portugal since 2016 and in 2018 the anesthesiology censuses, promoted by the government, identified the lack of more than 500 anesthetists. To all these data, the Government has not responded with any public policy nor has it presented any results. So the first question you have to answer before this Parliament is the following: why did the government not do anything, when you knew of this shortage so many years ago and the Minister was already Minister of Health?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u8	Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Members : The disorganization and chaos in the National Health Service reigns. The users, firefighters and adjacent services have no information about which services are closed, about which units are not working. Probably some of those who accompany us at home will know by my words, here and now, that your emergency service is closed, not by any information they have from the National Health Service. Mrs. Minister, on the 15th of this month, a pregnant woman gave birth at the door of the Faro hospital — at the door of the Faro hospital! We are not in Bangladesh,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u10	...we're in Portugal. This is a democracy, it is a country that wants to be developed and not a lost country in the middle of the world. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The Minister was and is Minister of a Government who wanted to end the PPPs (public-private partnerships) in health, especially in Braga — which worked quite well, as in Loures — because this involved private and external services. So, let us explain something here in this House: how does the government want to end PPPs by involving private and external services, while last year we beat the record of payments to doctors in outsourcing, jobs, in the National Health Service, spending EUR 142 million? What is the consistency of a government that says it does not want external or private services, but that it will recruit and pay to doctors of these private services?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u12	What is the logic and coherence of a government that, one month ago, presented the Dignified Work Agenda, where it says, and I quote, that « we should reduce and limit temporary work enterprises », when this year, in 2022, the SNS has traveled as never before to temporary work companies? Mr. Minister, this is not just a political incoherence, it is a political disaster and its responsibility. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Members: Today is the day to respond to the Portuguese if we can be assured that the chaos and disorganization we have had in the National Health Service will not be repeated over the coming weeks. Madam Minister, we have heard you mention yesterday, giving reason to what you have been saying for a long time, that you have to agree with the private in this matter. The Minister knows, as I know and we all know, that she will not solve the competitions in three months, not in four months, not in five... and now she will go back to what the PS did, and she should never have done, that it is to realize that only by articulating the National Health Service with the private health service and with the social health service is that we can arrive at solutions to give health worthy to the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u14	This is what we need, Mrs Minister, and not contingency plans, that of contingency have nothing and that, as far as solutions are concerned, they do not present any. Let me tell you, in this first speech, Mrs Minister, that in the midst of health chaos, in the midst of deaths associated with the state and its disorganization, the fact that the Minister appears before the Portuguese to promote the resolution of the problem with one more monitoring committee is to enjoy not with whom she works, but with whom she votes and with those who pay taxes in Portugal. No, Mrs Minister, we do not need more committees, we do not need more studies, we do not need more tachos, we do not need more documents, we need the Minister to understand that she is the Minister of a Government and has to solve the health problems in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u15	Mr President, we need you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u16	And I conclude, Mr President, by saying: Madam Minister, at the moment we do not need studies or opinions, we need action, we need decision! Be able to make or make your place available. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u17	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. I greet all of you and all of you. Members and also the Ministers. Because this is our first opportunity to do so, on this return from the Free to Parliament, I want my first words to be of recognition for all that the National Health Service, the health professionals and the guardianship, which is yours, have done in Portugal in the fight against the pandemic. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] However, at a stage when we want it to be post-pandamy, and we all want it, we also need to pay attention to what, perhaps, has not been done during the pandemic and which would have helped us in the situation in which we are today, and what we can do in the short and medium term in order to solve the problems that we are now facing. So I have two questions for which I would like to hear your answer. First: what European solidarity funds and programmes created during the pandemic for support to health services have not been used in Portugal for borrowing and adding to debt? I should like to remind myself that during the pandemic the Portuguese Government was one of the most reluctant to use these lines of support with very low interest rates and that today, at an inflationary stage, they seem even lower, so I would like to know if this would have helped to solve the problems we are facing today in emergencies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u19	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u20	I ask the second question very quickly, and with it I conclude. Health professionals are one of the most resorting to the Return Program. Is there a health return program? It is that we need health professionals to return to Portugal, not to open stores but to return to our hospitals. If there is no such program, what can we do to create it?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u21	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Madam Minister, we cannot fail to regret that there are only answers when we often have tragic incidents, such as the unfortunate death of this baby and, as has already been said, the birth, this week, of a baby at the door of a hospital. We can't go after the damage and one of the major concerns is that we're just looking at the tip of the iceberg here. That is, when we started with the pandemic, Mrs Minister — and we know that it was a very complex time for the country and for the National Health Service — one of the issues for us to warn, from the very first moment, was precisely that the other questions and answers from the National Health Service could not be left behind. However, since the lack of completion of medical scales to fix doctors, particularly in the competition for recent specialists that was held last year, 35 % of the 1073 vacancies that have been opened have been completed, helping, for example, with access to housing, articulating with other ministries, etc. , all this has been left behind. The minute we have at our disposal is not enough for all the questions we want to ask you, so we have entered a request, to which we hope that the Minister will answer, but there is one question that I cannot stop asking you today, which is the following: until, Madam Minister, if you are going to pretend that you do not know what is necessary to fix our doctors in the National Health Service?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u23	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u24	I really am concluding, Mr President. More: where there is no SNS, for when the creation of partnerships that allow women to have access to medical-child care and also obstetric care?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u25	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u26	Mr. President, Mr. Ministers, Mrs. Members, Mrs. Members: Last week we had news of closures or serious limitations in the emergency services of Braga, São João, Porto, Guarda, Covilhã, Torres Vedras, Caldas da Rainha, Santarém, Vila Franca de Xira, Amadora-Sinta, São Francisco Xavier, Beatriz Ángelo, Garcia de Orta, Barreiro-Montijo, Setúbal, Portimão, Portalegre, and I must be forgetting some. This is the collapse of the SNS, even if the PS propaganda machine wants us to believe the opposite, and this collapse has a responsible and has a face. This leader is António Costa, who in 2015 accepted that this sovietization of health was part of the conditions of management; António Costa, who accepts that daily it is diabolical and creates a system of hatred and prejudice against the private in health; António Costa, who chose it to you, Mrs. Minister, today 1341 days ago, to be minister. At the time, António Costa was recruiting an independent technique, which had health knowledge; today, it has an assumed PS militant, perhaps dazzled by its popularity, to compete with party leadership. I am here telling you, Minister, eyes in your eyes, that popularity is not the same thing as competence. Popularity is not the same thing as competence,... [[PS protests.]] ... because competence would not have been to come earlier to present another contingency plan—I repeat, more a contingency plan—that is no more than a quick thought to this authentic fracture exposed to the SNS. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u27	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you have to allow the speaker to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u28	Nothing bothers me, Mr. President. [[PS Members' laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u29	That is to allow the speaker to intervene also applies to myself, to my regiment interventions, of course. Mr. Deputies, please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u30	Mr President, I said that competence is not confused with popularity, because it would have been the competence of the Minister that does not come before presenting a contingency plan that does not pass from a quick thought to deal with this genuine fracture exposed. What the Minister says to us is that she will set up a follow-up committee to coordinate the activities of the ARS(regional health administrations) when resources have to be shared. Were there no coordination regarding the resources to be shared? A follow-up committee now? Oh, my God! The Minister has come to say that they will now resort to private people under certain circumstances, but that is what we and various parties have been asking for years. Now are we going to use privates? Oh, my God! It also speaks of the adequacy of remuneration in emergency services. What about the rest? What about the consultations? What about the surgeries? What about primary care? We are still approaching 1 million and a half of Portuguese without health care. What about the rest of the things that aren't paid positions? The truth is that yesterday something had to be said to control damage, and that's what came out. Competence would have been not to let the SNS deteriorate to the point that all professionals easily find better conditions in private or abroad, and they make us thousands every year. Competition would have been not to swirl side by side with the problems of excess mortality, which two years ago are evident. And they are evident in reports of their own DGS ( Directorate-General for Health ), in reports of the National School of Public Health, in reports of the mortality surveillance platform itself in Portugal. It's been months and months, and there's no explanation. And it's not only in excess of mortality, Mrs. Minister, it's also in things you don't see. It is not only in physical diseases, it is in mental diseases, especially in young people. Signs like those who realize that, for the first time in 33 years, there are waiting lists in the pedopsychiatry consultation at the Hospital of D. Estefânia, i.e. for the first time, children and babies are in need of mental health care, and none of this is being treated. That would have been competence. Just as it would have been competent to recognize that, if more than 1 million Portuguese, since the Minister took possession, they felt the need to have a health insurance, if Portugal is one of the countries where there are more Portuguese paying for their own health costs, it is because, of course, the SNS is not responding as it should. Finally, Madam Minister, competence would have been to recognize that the problem is not money, because this year, in 2022, we are going to spend more EUR 4600 million than we spent in 2015. It's almost 50 % in six years. This is a lot, even for the PS. If it were a money problem, it would be settled. Therefore, the SNS problem is not money, it is design and system management. And it was precisely to discuss the basic aspects of the design and management of the system that the Liberal Initiative has already scheduled a month ago — long before these media cases, we are not being overlooked — by 30 June, a legislative debate subordinated to the theme « SOS. SNS », because to save the SNS, it has to be profoundly reformed and for this reform they can count on the Liberal Initiative. The question I ask, Mrs Minister, is whether, for this reform, we can count on this Minister. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u31	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u32	Mr President, Mr Ministers, Mrs and Mrs. Members, Mrs. Minister of Health, Marta Temido : What we are currently witnessing in the National Health Service, with the chaos installed in many of the country's emergencies, in particular in the emergency of obstetrics, is, in his words, a structural problem that is now manifesting itself. Being a structural problem, it is not a problem for now, being known, the question that I ask you, very directly, is the following: why did this chaos happen in the National Health Service? If you knew what was happening, if you knew it was a problem that could happen, why did you let this insecurity fall on the country during your term of office? We have heard the right to say that more investment is needed in the private sector, that it is necessary for the National Health Service to make more use of the private sector, and, in fact, it was in your mandate, in the period when you are the Minister of Health, that the SNS has increased the investment in jobs—now, employers are external, private service providers—which has increased the use of the private sector. Therefore, Mrs. Minister, who says she defends the SNS, has to answer another very direct and very simple question: how is it that who most guarantees defending the SNS puts it more dependent on the private and employers? Madam Minister, I would like to ask you one last very direct question: what respect is this for the professionals of the National Health Service, who look at those who are working with you, in the emergencies, and know that these jobs — private external services, which are working at the facilities of the National Health Service — the Minister agrees to pay, on a single shift of service, the same as doctors who have contracts in the National Health Service in one month?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u33	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u34	I will repeat, because I believe that this shows well, either inequality, or part of the indignity that this government is promoting with health professionals: how is it acceptable for a job, in the emergencies of a hospital, to gain in one shift, in one 24 hours, the same as a professional hired by the National Health Service, who dedicates his career to the public cause, wins in a month of work? Oh, my God! Mrs. Minister, this is incomprehensible. If it was already intolerable before, it is even more incomprehensible than its proposal to remedy — I insist on this term, to remedy — the problem that exists is to insist on inequality, maintaining the favor of payment to employers to the detriment of the valorization of professionals, whether as regards careers, or the extra hours that they have to work in the National Health Service. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u35	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister of Health : The CFP has long been alerting us to the way of weakening the National Health Service. [[Protests from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u37	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the speaker has the right to speak and the Members. Members cannot interrupt systematically. Yes, systematically, that's what I'm seeing from here, and that's what forces me to intervene, and I will intervene whenever necessary. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. João Dias, please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u38	I would like to thank you, Mr President, for your caution on the need to create conditions. I said, Mrs. Minister, that the fragility of the National Health Service was one of the central issues that led the PCP to vote against the State budget, either in November or in May of this year. From the outset, because the difficulties faced by health professionals are not solved, and they do not, in particular, respond to the dignity of their careers and to the dignity of wages. This is one of the main causes of the situation that currently lives in the National Health Service: the devaluation of health professionals. When the CCP submits proposals for wage and career promotion, the Government responds with career careers in which it takes more than 100 years to reach the top; when the CCP presents a proposal for exclusive dedication, in which it creates conditions for professionals to devote themselves exclusively to the National Health Service and career careers, the Government responds with careers that it takes more than 100 years to reach the top; when the CCP proposes and presents solutions to extend incentives for incentives, for example, in the open vacancies, during the last month, in obstetric work, the professionals are dedicated exclusively to the National Health Service, what the Government presents is full dedication, in which it takes more than 900 doctors in the National Health Service for the speciality of obstetric and gynecology; when the CCP proposes and gynecology and gynecology; when the CCPPCP proposes and we need more than 900 doctors in the National Health Service Health Service, when it proposes and we need them to carry out a plan of investments, with the special expertise, with modern equipment, new facilities, new hospitals, new hospitals, new hospitals, new hospitals, new health centres, health centres, health centres, and health centres, and health centres, and health centres, and health centres, and health centres, when the promotion, when the promotion, and health centres, when the promotion, when the new health centres, when the P and health centres, when the P and health centres are used, when the P is used, when the P and health centres are used, when the P is used, when the P is used, when the P and the P and health centres are used, when the P and health centres are used, when the P and is used, when the P and is used, when the P and is used, and health centres, when the P and is used, where, where, when the P and is used, and is used, when the P and is used, when the P and health centres, and health centres are used, when the promotion, when the P and the P and is used, when the promotion, and is used, when the promotion, and health centres, and health centres, and health centres, and health centres, where the promotion, when the promotion, where the promotion, when the promotion, when the promotion, when the P and is used, when the new health centres, and health centres, and health centres, and health centres, when the What the Minister announced in the contingency plan does not resolve in any way, she does not respond. Say there, Minister : how will you respond to the need to fix and attract professionals with this contingency plan that you have submitted? Mrs Minister, taking away the issue of the remuneration of emergencies, which is still in negotiations with the unions, and well, there is nothing to answer right away. Next comes the reorganization of the emergency and emergency hospital network. Mrs. Minister, we hope it is not to concentrate and close. What is needed is to give the National Health Service more capacity, and not remove it. What you are prepared to do is to hand over to the private because you still said you want to make agreements with other sectors, particularly with the private sector and with the third sector. What you are doing with this proposal is a very dangerous path, Minister, with which the CFP cannot agree. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u39	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Botelho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u40	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members : We are debating today, with the presence of the government, the state of the National Health Service from a set of recent events, widely disseminated by the media agencies, of spot closures of gynecology and obstetric emergencies in several hospitals in the country,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u41	Bridges? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u42	... from Portimão, Lisboa and Vale do Tejo, Centro and Norte, mostly during the night, due to the lack of medical professionals to ensure user response scales. We deeply regret the death of a child. We address our deepest feelings to the grieving family and urgently call upon us to investigate the causes and possible responsibilities. No one wanted this to happen, but it happened. And, because it has happened, it is necessary and imperative to take immediate steps to avoid repetition of situations like these in the future, so that the necessary health care, in time and time for the citizens, in the name of the well-being and health of the users and their confidence in the responses that the National Health Service gives, and must give, to those who seek it. Some people have been talking about chaos in public health services and emergencies. We never hide the problems, which, we know, are many, but for those who strive to pass this reality, we note that, in recent days, the SNS has also had many other activities, programmed or not, in emergencies, with the involvement of many patients and thousands of professionals who have ensured, throughout the country, health services at a long weekend. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Fortunately, without any news, because they have only done their duty to provide services to the patients. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u43	To all these professionals, differentiated in their professional categories, our thanks. They have our commitment to everything we do to find the best solutions for your careers and the SNS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u45	The National Health Service has gone a long way and is today an essential service at various levels in Portuguese society, a condition of constitutionally guaranteed equality of access to health, dispersing these services in local services, proximity, and in the most differentiated hospital. And that is why, contrary to what is often said, without contradiction, that the SNS often resorts to private service providers and the social area, particularly in surgeries and complementary means of diagnosis, because what matters is the patient and the time of response to it. It's not ideology, it's about responding to patients, and that's what matters. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Members: Since 2015, the Socialist Party has been making a substantial effort, both in budgetary terms—the 2022 budget being the largest ever—as well as the strengthening of health professionals, which are more than 32 000 compared to 2015. But despite these advances, we know that it is not all right and that it is necessary to do more and better. It is necessary to continue to invest. Although we are witnessing the recovery of care activity, the improvement of access to post-pandamy care and the elimination of moderate rates, and precisely because several problems are identified, from the Algarve to the north of the country—such as the need for new functional infrastructures to improve accessibility and waiting times, to improve careers and a remuneration status of professionals who attract and avoid their exit from the National Health Service, among others—the Government Program recently approved in this Chamber, and which will now be initiated, has to leave its fullness in the role and move on to reality, to ensure better health services throughout the country. That is what we all want, and surely that is what you all want. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So we need to improve working conditions in the SNS? Yeah. Do we have to move forward with a full professional dedication scheme? Yes! I conclude by saying that today the SNS lives a period of difficulties we never hide. There are great challenges that the pandemic has intensified, but we are fully convinced that we will be able to overcome them. Force the government, which has our full support. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u46	The honourable Member has a request for clarification from Mr Ventura of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, who has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u47	Mr President, Mr President, I will seek to address you in a cordial and also respectful manner, as is this Parliament itself. [[PS protests.]] I will therefore ask you this question very sincerely. Does the honourable Member live in Portugal? [[Mr Pedro Pinto's laughs.]] Because, honestly, it suddenly seemed to me that you were talking about the Parliament of Switzerland or the Netherlands. But no, you live right here! He said "we didn't want this to happen, but it happened, excuse me there. There was this little problem, which was that a baby died, and there were hundreds of thousands of people without services, I apologize to everyone. Mrs Minister, I am sorry there too», and she followed. Listen: this is not how it is! This is a Parliament, where there are responsibilities! You're not going to say there's all right, there's been a little problem and the thing is going on. He then said: "We know that everything is not well, but strength, government, and strength, Mrs Minister." What's this? I thought the PS was independent of the government bench, and that is why there is the government bench and the PS bench, but its intervention could have been perfectly done by the Minister of Health! Mr. Deputies, I ask you directly...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u48	But now the PS can't support the government? O André!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u49	We are still not well at the point of « o André », but... [[PS and IL rice.]] Mr President, I wonder only if I can continue to speak. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u50	Mr. André Ventura, you are experiencing a procedure that your bench also uses, but I ask that no one use it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. André Ventura, please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u51	Mr President, I am sorry, but I never said « to Eurico ». [[PS laughter.]] Mr President, I would like to ask you whether it is normal for a Minister of Health to come to this Parliament without presenting a single solution — and we hope that he will present it at the end — and also if it is normal that the PS is not capable of a critical exercise at a time when people die and the services are closed. It was very ugly to see the PS bench without any criticism or self-criticism, without giving voice to the votes that elected it, blindly supporting a minister who probably no longer has political support to continue. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u52	To reply, Mr Jorge Botelho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u53	Mr President, Mr President, I would clearly say to you that I live in this country, and perhaps I know more about the problems of the National Health Service in the Algarve. I'm defending the National Health Service and I'm here to make a contribution to improving it. Obviously no one here rejects support for the government. We have to work, we have to move forward, we have to defend the National Health Service, because that is to defend the Portuguese, and that was my intervention. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u54	Tell that to the women of Portimão!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u55	All my intervention has to do with this: defending the National Health Service and also defending my region. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u56	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Rui Cristina has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Health: The Socialist Party has been in government for almost seven years. The PS ruled in 20 years of the last 27 — that is, three in every four years — and cannot deny its enormous responsibilities for the serious situation in which the National Health Service is located, as Mr. Prime Minister said. We have a SNS in which 1, 4 million Portuguese have no family doctor assigned, twice 2018, when the current Minister began his duties. It is 1 million and 400 thousand Portuguese whose only alternative to access health care is the use of emergencies. We do not intend to put here further evidence of a promise not fulfilled by the Prime Minister. However, this high number represents a severe strangulation of a differentiated service, when access to SNS should be through the door of primary care. Therefore, the PSD proposed the hiring of assistant doctors to respond to the needs of citizens, which the PS rejected. We recall, by the way, that, in the perspective of the PSD, the good example of public-private partnerships should be resumed. See the hospital in Braga, which only began to lose doctors when it stopped being run with a public-private partnership. [[PSD applause.]] We have a SNS in which waiting times do not stop increasing, either for surgery, or for a simple medical consultation, a situation that, contrary to what official propaganda says, is not today nor has it emerged with the pandemic, as it was the target of denunciation in 2017 and 2019 in official reports of the Court of Auditors and the Regulatory Health Entity. We have an SNS abandoned to its fate, without a single structural reform in the last seven years. The SNS only takes the Government's attention to complaints of human tragedies in the media or the voice of those responsible who courageously denounce the degradation of health services. We have a SNS in which health professionals feel growing distrust of the government: hundreds of discharges of hospital officials, thousands of statements of liability excuse and the abandonment of the public service was the path of hundreds of professionals only this year. The loss of confidence in the government is potentially due to the lack of credibility of the current health policy, marked by the lack of planning, low investment, poor working conditions and commitment to professional achievement. This also brings together the absence of prospects for career progression and unattractive remuneration, when not even unfairly discrepant. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister : The Government has now agreed to the emergency crisis. He did very well, but he woke up too late! This crisis is neither new nor unexpected, as evidenced by the amazing statement by the Minister of Health himself at the beginning of the week when he said, and I quote, "we know in advance where we are going to have failures". The hospital officials and the Ministry's services had warned of this risk since the beginning of the year. The press echoed, already last April, that emergency services are the ones most affected by failures in the SNS. At least there was the obligation — I repeat, the obligation! — to anticipate solutions to ensure that emergencies do not close because of lack of resources, situations that could and should have been avoided, preventing human dramas and anxiety in pregnant women and their families. But the truth is, nothing has been done. And it is not surprising, therefore, that the former Minister of Socialist Health, Manuela Arcanjo, has now said that he has reached a pre-break point, concluding that—and the words are from her— «Martha Fear is a very nice person, but has come to pretend that everything is all right». [[PSD applause.]] It means that, even for many socialists, the current Minister is part of the problem rather than the solution. But this lack of credibility by the Minister is still evident in some of her recent proposals to combat the emergency crisis. This is the case for the competition now open for around 1600 medical specialists, when we know that the vast majority of these professionals are already working at the SNS and that, in practice, there are no new entries. [[PSD applause.]] Or that promise to reduce the benefits of professional doctors. Amazing promise, when we know that between 2015 and 2019 SNS costs with these benefits increased from EUR 80 million to EUR 119 million, an increase of around 50 %! And, look, we're talking about pre- pandemic governance. Now in 2021, these costs exceeded EUR 140 million in the first quarter and charges now amount to EUR 34 million. The situation of hospital emergencies is known and speaks for itself. It is an authentic scandal, worthy of the third world, that many pregnant women in our country face closed obstetric emergency services, often without being warned, endangering their life and health of their child. And what has happened in the Lisbon region and in the Algarve — but also in the Central and Alentejo areas — is simply unacceptable, even frightening. The Socialist Party has an absolute majority, which means that it has no excuse not to make the reforms that the National Health Service urgently lacks. [[PSD applause.]] On Thursday the Government presented a so-called contingency plan, in which the Prime Minister announced a plan to solve structural problems. But what has been presented does not even solve the conjuncural problems, the more structural ones! In fact, it does not solve any problems and the proposals submitted by the PSD are ignored. After six years of ignoring orders and trade unions, the government now pretends to negotiate, making proposals that professionals' representatives consider unacceptable or merely an act.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u58	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u59	I will finish, Mr. President. To us, such proposals no longer seem like a bad exercise and the truth is that they are the Portuguese paying the price, every day higher. The Social Democratic Party will be vigilant, for the good of the people and for the good of the national interest. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u60	Ms. Minister of Health, Marta Temido has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Ministry of Health — and the Minister of Health — is, as it has always been, available to respond to this Assembly of the Republic and to the Portuguese, and that is what we have tried to do and have done. Ask me to explain, and I'll explain. I will not explore the deaths or the suffering of babies, mothers, families, health professionals who face limited situations, of society that confronts the anxiety of services that work with some constraints. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u62	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u63	We will, of course, find out with seriousness and complete transparency regarding the results, what has failed. Are there structural problems? Yes! And they're not from now on. [[Protests by CH Member Pedro dos Santos Frazão.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u64	Mrs. Minister, I apologize for interrupting. Mr Frazão, I would ask you, for all you have, to respect the speaker. Please proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u65	Thank you very much, Mr President. There are structural problems, yes, and for them there is an answer and a strategic vision. If they may have forgotten, this Parliament passed a new Health Bases Act in 2019 and its implementation, in particular by means of a new Statute of the National Health Service, was postponed. We had a pandemic, we had a fall from the government and we had the need to return to the road and get back to work that had been done. The new Statute of the National Health Service has strategic solutions, has a vision. In terms of human resources, with the autonomy of contracts, with incentives to health professionals, with agreements of permanence, with full dedication, all themes that have to be negotiated with trade union structures, as should be, within the framework of respect for collective bargaining. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the other hand, the new Statute of the National Health Service has a figure that so many criticized, the Executive Directorate of the National Health Service, aimed at improving the articulation, integration, the functioning of network responses. For those who have criticised this proposal so much, this idea, this project, saying that it was only the creation of another «tach», perhaps it has been explained now, because we need it. Of course, also the Recovery and Resilience Plan, which is another of the strategic instruments that we have in hand, provided not only a set of investments, but also a set of structural reforms, which aimed to improve the reference network of the National Health Service. So, what we're talking about today is nothing that wasn't planned, it's just something that was postponed by clear impossibility of realisation,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...some fruits of circumstances to which we are all others, others because of circumstances to which some have given rise. Hospital reference networks are the key to improving the functioning of the National Health Service, such as articulation with other sectors, where necessary and only when necessary. That is why we are going to pursue this path. The timely and contingencies we have put on the table are intended to ensure that the immediate response is assured, of two types: trust in a technical committee to improve the coordination of the immediate response—and we ask that the work of those who will do so be respected to help us improve the response, ensuring a more peaceful functioning—and, on the other hand, additional payment of the additional hours carried out in urgent service by the staff of the National Health Service staff map, beyond their additional hours. What we propose, and what we propose to the trade union structures, aims to answer the questions that have been raised to us and we believe that it responds even to the questions that have been raised to us. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we had 701 gynecologists-obstetra doctors in 2015 and today we have 802, who have to respond to 38 response points in the National Health Service. We need more doctors, we need more gynecologists and obstetricians, but we need, above all, better organization, and that is where we are working, articulating with everyone. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u66	Mr Minister, the Bureau has two requests for clarification following its intervention. To make the first request for clarification, Mr Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, let me tell you this: today you have been seriously lacking in respect of this Parliament. And you have failed to respect because an urgent debate has urgency, but the Minister has come here with the conversation that she will not exploit the death or closure of the services... she will not exploit anything because she does not care, because she knows that the responsibility is for the Minister of Health! Mrs. Minister came here to say that she's not going to explore anything, that it's best not to talk about anything and we're all going home, little girls... Now you have to answer to this Parliament. And I am very sorry that it has not been called to the attention of you to have to answer the questions that have been put to it. This is not a PS rally, it is not just to come here to say: « There was a pandemic, the government fell... Look, it is possible! Now I'm going home until next weekend and good weekend! » This is not how it is! [[Protests by PS MP Maria Antonia de Almeida Santos.]] The Minister said there is an answer, a strategic vision. What is she? Create another follow-up commission? It's thousands already! I'm sorry to tell you, but there are thousands! Is that the solution, a bonus or no bonus commission? Oh, my God! Is that the solution you have? Is that what you have to tell the Portuguese today? « Be quiet, there comes another commission! » I bet the people who are watching her at home said: "Oh, it's all settled! A PS commission! I'm sure he'll solve all the problems. » What is the strategy, Minister? What is she? [[PS protests.]] He said there was a pandemic and the government fell. But, Mrs. Minister, when there were missing anesthetists, the government had not yet fallen! When the doctors emigrated there was no pandemic! When the waste in health, in the time of its predecessor, was 1000 million per year — 1000 million! - There was no pandemic! There was nothing, there was no pandemic, there was government! Mrs. Minister inherited the right accounts of Mário Centeno. The extreme left approved the captivating. Responsibility has a name: PS and Government! It has a name, we can't come here saying it doesn't! [[Congrats from the CH.]] So, Minister, I ask you to respect this Parliament and answer us: what is the solution to the problems we are facing? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u68	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, from the Left Block, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u69	Mr President, the Minister of Health has been a minister since October 2018, long before the pandemic entered our country. When he entered his mandate, we were discussing the Health Bases Act and the hope that the proposal of Arnaut and Semedo created in the country—in particular in professionals, because careers guarantee, guarantee less resources to private and guarantee dignity to the National Health Service—was immense. But since then, we have not gone forward, we have gone back. We have taken steps back and that is why the Left Block did not follow the State Budget by 2020: because the Government does not foresee what should be expected, the implementation of full dedication, the exclusiveness of professionals. We voted against the State budget for 2021 because it had already anticipated the greatest investment in the private that there was memory in the National Health Service. We voted against the State Budget for 2022 because, continuing with the errors of previous budgets, guarantees again empty contests, lack of investment in careers and the open exit door for the professionals of the National Health Service, telling doctors, very clearly, in the words of the director of the Hospital de São João, in Porto : « We pay better to employers than to those who have contract in the National Health Service. Do not keep on seeking. ” Therefore, the Minister, having given a good initial picture, has only taken steps back in valuing careers in the SNS, in guaranteeing her affirmation and in safeguarding her future. The structural problems that pre-existed, all of them, worsened. And about that, Mrs. Minister, we have no answer, but I already give one. When the right one tells us « but you were part of this», the answer is simple, as we have said several times: « It was because of the health and the choices of the government that we left the Socialist Party. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u70	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u71	I end with this sentence, Mr President : therefore we voted against the State budgets, but the Minister does not reply because she continues to agree to pay more to a job, in a 24-hour shift, than to a doctor who works for a full month in the National Health Service, because she continues to accept that the private takeover from the National Health Service and because she did not guarantee that the structural problems she already knew...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u72	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u73	... were solved in time and time. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u74	In reply, Mrs. Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ventura's answers to me: to hire everyone, to train more, to increase training skills, to extend recruitment abroad, to pay better — especially with the proposal we put on the table yesterday — and to recognize that this is a systemic problem and not a problem with political colors. I give him the example of France, according to a report on June 14 : « In the face of the shortage of caregivers, maternity is faced with a time of bitterness» — a situation similar to ours. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Justify what we've been through? No, it doesn't. Is she unique? No, it's not. Whoever wants to recognize the problems speaks truth about them. [[CH-protests and PS-protests.]] Regarding the issue of support for our health professionals, what we put on the table was a regime that corrects this asymmetry of recourse to service providers. Whoever left us alone on this path made his choices. We have continued where we have always been: fighting for the SNS! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u76	Mr João Dias, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u77	Mr President, Mrs Minister : The fundamental thing that is asked of the Ministry and this government is to save the National Health Service. Mrs. Minister, do you remember when we were beating hands on health professionals? Yes, health professionals were those who left no one behind, were available and responded when they were asked, and continue to respond. Now, Minister, what is required is that we respond to them, combating precariousness, valuing their careers, wages. Are you the Minister to assume her responsibilities and now that health professionals need our support, respond to what they need? Another issue, Mrs. Minister, has to do with the Statute of the National Health Service, which was fundamental to ending promiscuity between the public and the private. Will the Minister continue to allow the private to come to finance itself in the National Health Service, ending with the quality of the National Health Service, what does it count for everyone? It is that the public is for everyone and the private is only for some, Mrs. Minister. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u78	I now give the floor to Mr Pedro Frazão of the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u79	Mr President, Minister, came to this Parliament and deserves a direct lead. Mrs. Minister has failed again in the answers to this House and has failed to explain to the Portuguese how SNS will benefit them. Mrs. Minister deserves a direct lead because she was warned. I myself, in this Chamber, during the discussion of the State Budget, told him that there was a subordination, that there was waste, that there was a poor management on the part of the PS boys, who attack the board of directors of hospitals, that there was a failure in primary care. Mrs. Minister, failure is not only in obstetrics. Let me tell you that, yesterday, there was a great disaster in Santarém, very close to the hospital, at A1, with three serious injuries: one went to Abrantes, another went to Vila Franca de Xira and another had to come to Lisbon. And Santarém was already at the top 3 hospitals with waiting lists. The Minister has also failed to say where she's going to look for the international doctors. He's in Venezuela? Is that Cuba? Are you in North Korea? Mrs. Minister, it's not enough to say that you're going to make an international contest to get doctors, when you know that's not going to happen. Mrs. Minister, you spoke in number of obstetricians. Where is the National Health Professional Inventory, which this House has approved in 2015 a resolution in 2019 for it to be made? The Minister does not know how many health professionals she has and, as she does not know what the resource is, she does not know how to manage it. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u80	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is a conclusion to be drawn from this debate — which has already been mentioned in this plenary in previous debates — on the word 'hypocrisy'. I believe that what is underlying today's debate is not the concern of the Portuguese or the concern of the SNS, it is the concern of bringing down a Minister. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Now, that should call us for a reflection. If we were all on the side of the defence of the National Health Service — all, without exception — in this Parliament, we would have approved, less than a month ago, a State budget which has the measures that the Minister mentioned here today to solve the problems that we have never hidden. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Look at all electoral programs. Only one party is that it identified these problems and only one party is that it identified the solutions. That party was the Socialist Party! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Rice from Members of the PSD and IL.]] [[At the moment, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u82	Good morning to all the Members and to all the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. We will move on to the second item on the agenda, which is the discussion of draft resolution No 55 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government reactivate the Decentralisation Monitoring Commission. To present this draft resolution, Mrs Susana Amador of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor. Mrs Susana Amador, before starting her speech, I would ask you to say goodbye to the Bureau of the Minister of Health and to the Minister for Parliamentary Affairs. Thank you very much, Mr. Ministers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u83	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The reform of decentralization, which is ongoing and consolidates daily, brings the reversal of centralism that characterizes us and that we have to fight, because it compromises territorial development and cohesion and keeps us from socially more just. OECD studies ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) show that there is a clear association between decentralization and development. We are well aware that the proximity strengthens economic and social development and, as mentioned by the President of the Republic, « deepens the ties of solidarity between all Portuguese ». The reform is thus central to ensuring the transfer of the model of operation of the State, starting with the structures that form its basis, i.e. by the local authorities. Local authorities are the key structure for the management of public services in a proximity dimension. Therefore, decentralization makes policies more efficient and, above all, brings citizens closer to decision-making centres, involving them and thus strengthening democracy. This is necessarily involved in monitoring and monitoring by this Parliament. For this reason, while still in discussion of the Budget with the Minister of Cohesion, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group announced and presented this draft resolution to reactivate the Committee on the Monitoring of Decentralisation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u84	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u85	...now the Government, in resolution of the Council of Ministers, must develop the way and functioning of it. A knighting norm without budgetary content, as the PSD did, at a stage after this announcement and presentation, was certainly not the home. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, with the functioning of this Commission, we want to ensure: firstly, the adequacy of the financial resources of each area of competence; secondly, the transparency that a process of this nature and complexity requires; thirdly, a regular debate with all government reform partners, with ANMP ( National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ) and ANAFRE ( National Association of Frequencies ). As has always been said, this reform, complex and comprehensive, is neither static nor rigid. Despite the remarkable progress made in decentralization, in dialogue with our interlocutor, ANMP has been widely reaffirmed the availability to continue the dialogue, always in search of the best solutions. Despite the framework law obliging financial neutrality, the government has gone further by reviewing values in central areas, such as education, before the framework of uncertainty and inflation in which we find ourselves. The area of education has also benefited from an increase of EUR 10, EUR 8 million in the State budget, on a proposal from this parliamentary group, for the maintenance of the school building. The negotiations continue and also affect school meals and transport, having already been clarified — as has also been said in this Chamber by the Minister — that the retraining of educational establishments transferred to the authorities will be ensured by the central administration. It's over 300 school equipment. In the area of health, in cases where primary health care infrastructures require investment, it is jointed so that they are associated with PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ), aiming at increasing transfer cars in this sector. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the universalization of competences within the social sphere closes this cycle in an area where authorities will certainly be vital agents in planning municipal social charters, in coordinating local social development contracts or in providing services of deficiency and social risk. The Socialist Party will continue to be, as it has always been and will always be, the partner of the municipalities in which it is the greatest reform of democratic Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Once again, the Socialist Party translates the greatest evidence of confidence in the ability to work of the autarchs, which will result in obvious gains in the services provided to the populations. Dear Members and dear Members, this is the essence of politics, from which we will never turn away: to aspire to the full realization of the people.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u86	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u87	I hope they're with us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u88	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u89	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the NAP, the process of decentralization is absolutely fundamental. Portugal needs decentralization and is no longer one of the most centralised countries in the OECD. However, this process must be accompanied by a financial package which ensures that the powers transferred are effectively executed and that the chambers are not isolated only because they are of a different colour than the government or because they have a dissonant voice in some matters. Projects such as, for example, school transport cannot continue in the drawer. It is essential to ensure its financing, because decentralisation is precisely due to the proximity of the services we want to provide. Mrs Susana Amador has mentioned the subjects of education, and there is also that of housing. It is essential that there is a financial envelope that responds to all of this. The NAP will monitor the reactivation of the Decentralisation Monitoring Committee, as it seems to us to be an important step, but there must be dialogue. There cannot be a 'closed door' policy, especially in the Land of the Peace, so that we can ensure an effective process of decentralization and that, above all, it serves people.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u90	For an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u91	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With this draft resolution, the PS is proposing to the Government to reactivate the Decentralisation Monitoring Commission, provided for in the law and whose useful life has been extended until March of this year. This interest of the PS is still curious, until, according to the September 2020 news, at that date, the Commission had only met once, at a time when the decentralization process was already on its way. This was in 2020! Yesterday, there was news through which we learned that, after all, in their lifetime, this Commission met only four times, when it was supposed to have gathered at least eight times — i.e. twice. However, we do not disagree with its reaction and even understand the idea behind the creation of this Commission. In fact, although the Liberal Initiative did not have a seat on this Commission because it was not a parliamentary group at the time, we cannot help but see the existence of an independent body monitoring the process of decentralization, a logic guaranteeing political consensus and promoting debate. But would that have been what happened? Oh, my God! What exactly has been done by this Commission? We don't know. The most charged is the fact that the PS, at the head of the State budget for 2022, has plunged a proposal from the PSD which precisely sought to reactivate this Committee for the Monitoring of Decentralisation. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u92	This leads us to ask, then, what made the PS, within a month, change his perspective and his opinion? Oh, my God! What's your interest in this? Oh, my God! Monitoring and monitoring the process of decentralization is certainly not because they had this opportunity and did not. We know that this draft resolution will be adopted and that the Government will reactivate this Commission. Since decentralization is an important issue for the Liberal Initiative, we can only vote favourably, but one thing can be certain: this time we will have a seat in this Commission and we will be committed to being an independent and impartial body, of real debate and monitoring, where Portuguese can tell that we will do a serious and responsible scrutiny. The Liberal Initiative has begun this mandate with the aim of maximum scrutiny and is precisely that plan that we will join this Commission. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u93	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Nunes, of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u94	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's try to be serious. This Law No 50 / 2018 was approved with the responsibility of the Centre, i.e. these two large benches in the centre of the Chamber. In principle, we are in favour of decentralization. They now say 'we will set up a committee', or rather 'we will reactivate the Commission', and the Portuguese, at home, do not even understand well what we are talking about. The PSD presented, in the Committee on Public Administration, Planning of the Territory and Local Power, a request to hear Mr.Minister in hearing. They felt VV. Ex. very indignant about all this and they said there was no time. We follow the PSD proposal. In the middle, we had some "numbers" of some parties trying to put extra-temporaneous demands on top of the demand presented by the PSD bench and now we watch the NAP say: "We agree, the problem is the financial package. » But the NAP approved the State budget, where there is no money for decentralization! And we keep playing with this. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u95	In the last few weeks, the chamber presidents have filed loans in the municipal assemblies after borrowing applications because they have no money to do what you have to do. They call it 'decentralisation' and which does not go through a list of tasks. They want to put the city halls like Tuesdays. They continue to decentralize in the area of education, in the immobilised, but there is no money to do anything at all. You put an average of what has been spent in recent years. We attended the PS bench last week talking about the PRR, saying that it also helps decentralization. You know so well what they're talking about that, at some point, the deputy said that, in the metropolitan question, the PRR will be used because "the people who come from Odivelas train"... there is no train in Odivelas, my dear ones! You, in most of your bench, don't know the territory or know what's going on in the authorities. [[Protests by PS Member Berta Nunes.]] Mrs Berta Nunes is very excited about this, because she constantly says that decentralization must be done. We agree with decentralization and even agree that the committee is created, but it is to work seriously, because what happens... I will tell you what happens: do you know that in education, what is being decentralized is 1, 40 € for school meals? Oh, my God! Parents at home who see, with 1, 40 €, what they buy. If we talk to Minister Pedro Nuno Santos, we will see that, at TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport), 1, 40 € gives to buy a piece of fruit, because they pay 1 € per apple. You guys are kidding about this! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u96	It's a joke all day, talking about a process that municipal cameras... Mrs Susana Amador, who is president of the Municipal Assembly in the same authority in which I am a councilman, knows that nowadays it is necessary to create commissions within the municipal chambers, without any means, to try to understand how decentralization will be done, because money does not arrive. [[PS protests.]] Now you want to create the commission for what? Oh, my God! What they should have done was to allocate money to the chambers in the State budget. They continue with the value of the classrooms to be updated since 2009. We're kidding! The camera presidents who are on your bench, as well as some PS board presidents, should come and tell you: « There is no money to do anything at all. Do not keep on seeking. ” So let's create the committee there, which is typical of the Socialist Party: committees behind committees, to do absolutely nothing! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u97	Mr Diana Ferreira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u98	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : The challenge to the process of transferring competences to the authorities is growing. The problems identified by the municipalities are not solved, the Government does not guarantee the conditions and means for the exercise of the powers it intends to transfer to the authorities and the PS, instead of solving these problems, it brings to the Assembly of the Republic a proposal for the reactivation of the Commission for the Monitoring of Decentralisation. The Commission for the Monitoring of Decentralisation failed to meet its main objective: to assess the adequacy of the financial resources of each area of competence to be transferred. During the period in which it worked, no concrete, objective and disaggregated information was made available that would in fact enable the financial resources to be determined whether or not they were suitable for each of the competences. In addition to meeting very few times, the Government has made the meetings of the Commission in genuine clarification sessions. The truth is that the Committee on the Monitoring of Decentralisation has never worked as such, but it is of little use if it is not to meet the objective that justified its existence, if no clear work is done, with data that enable true monitoring, and not an account. Since the beginning of this process of the transfer of powers which it was found that the Government was not guaranteeing the conditions and means for the exercise of these powers by the authorities. It has conditioned the process of transferring competences to the so-called « budgetary neutrality », i.e. it could not imply an increase in public expenditure, which means that underfinanced areas such as education, health, social action, culture, housing, not being allocated to the authorities the funds necessary to solve the existing problems, will continue to face profound difficulties. This also confirms that the process of the transfer of powers constitutes a deresponsibility of the Government in guaranteeing fundamental rights, including by calling into question the universality of those rights, and that it is no longer a matter of transferring burdens and problems to the authorities. The Government and the PS have not yet solved the problems of the process of transferring existing competences and in their initiative they already speak of the identification of new competences to be transferred to municipalities and to inter-municipal communities, which, Mrs. [[All right!]] [[Protests from PS deputy Susana Amador.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u99	The existence of the Committee on the Monitoring of Decentralisation is not the central issue. What is really necessary is that the PS and the Government solve the problems that exist in the context of the transfer of competences to the authorities, which they have approved and defended. Are they, or are they not, transferring the appropriate means? The problems are not solved, Mrs Deputy, with an additional EUR 10 million for the area of education. Are they, or are they not, ensuring the conditions for the exercise of powers by the authorities? These are the issues that the authorities and populations want to see answered, but both the government and the PS are slow to provide the answers. [[PCP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u100	Mr Firmino Marques of the PSD Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD has always been at the forefront of fighting for the strengthening of local power and sharing of responsibility in the construction of the future. Proves the story that the PPD / PSD is a party of local power, always associated with a reformist vision of the state, based on a decentralized public administration. Decentralizing competences in local power, when accompanied by human, technical, heritage and financial resources, with all relevant information for decision-making, is a mission that is destined for us, revealing these assumptions a clear defence and strengthening of democracy. The creation of the Committee on the Monitoring of Decentralisation was an indication of this, because we have seen and continue to see in it, together with the local committees, an important mechanism for assessing and monitoring the process of decentralization of competence, which can and should contribute positively to the process of decentralization which we all seek. Curious is the opportunity brought by the Socialist Party to request the Commission to reactivate decentralisation in a kind of rescue operation with the Government. They bring us to the memory a document with the same intentions as the « distant» month of May 2022, in which, curiously, the PS denied the same purpose but presented by the PSD. We all know what changed. The creation of the Decentralisation Monitoring Committee was one of the PSD's requirements to endorse the decentralization agreement, since only in this way could it be evaluated the implementation of the transfer and the adequacy of the financial resources of each area of competence. This Commission was extinguished last March 31, 2022 and we therefore proposed its reactivation last May. To revive your memory, our proposal envisaged that this Commission should function with representatives of the government areas involved in the process of decentralisation, the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, ANAFRE and parliamentary groups, but, in view of the progress of the process, it should rethink its functions so as to enable it to assist in the coordination of the whole process of decentralisation, thus ensuring adequate monitoring of the financial implementation of the powers involved in transfers of means from the central administration to the local administration. For the most forgotten, the PSD proposal also envisaged that the Government should activate a quarterly assessment process for the measurement of financial resources, in view of the expenditure incurred by the municipalities, and that it should correct the financial packages, with the appropriate audits, after each evaluation, within a maximum of three months.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u102	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u103	He prays for history, as we have already mentioned, the negative fact that the Socialist Party has plunged this proposal, now coming, as regrettably, to amend its hand and to present a proposal equal to that of the PSD, which plummeted about two months ago. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If this Committee on Monitoring was already justified, it is undoubtedly important to pay attention to the circumstances of the majority of the authorities not voluntarily adhered to decentralization and to be publicly challenged, basically because they realize how insufficient the funds the government wants to allocate to perform competences in the areas of social action, education or health. They consider the authors that both the planned financial envelope and the human resources are clearly and clearly inadequate, regardless of the real needs, and may even put certain municipalities at risk of bankruptcy. For future memories, the first meeting of the Committee on the Monitoring of Decentralisation took place in the Assembly of the Republic on 3 September 2019, and it was decided to reconvene regularly from four months to four months to monitor the exercise of the skills transferred, in an approach to improving the service provided to the population. Unfortunately, the Commission has not fulfilled its task and failed to do so, but it is more serious that the Commission's subsequent complaints — ranging from the inadequacy of human resources to the organisation and management requirements to the lack of essential information available — also adds the lack of response and dialogue by the Government, with the fact that the transferred values have been removed from reality, as well as that of many equipment being classified as being in good condition, although they have not worked for many years. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In conclusion, we have always believed in the contribution that this Commission can make to the process of decentralization of competence, and it is now justified with an increased importance in the face of the strong challenge of the process by tens of municipalities. It is worth more late than ever and welcome to a reality in which more and better information is required for this Commission and, above all, that its recommendations can have and produce effects with the Government. With regard to this initiative, we can bring to memory José Saramago: "What is the use of repentance if it does not change anything that has happened? The best regret is simply to change. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u104	For an intervention, Mr José Soeiro, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Decentralisation, led by the Socialist Party as the great reform of the state, was in fact an agreement between the PS and the PSD unable to safeguard the adequacy of resources. And that is why it has been a process of deresponsibility of the State for the underfinancing of fundamental areas: education, health, social protection. Autarchs know this and know that they are being held responsible without the corresponding resources, without cautioning the transparency of the process—see the chaos installed in the transfer of competences in the field of health! — and without precaution of fundamental questions of democracy, both in the dimension of equal access to education, health, social protection throughout the territory, and in the dimension of the scrutiny of the powers now municipalized. The process was so bogged down and the resources are so low that the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities itself proposed the vote against the State budget,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u106	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u107	... because of precisely these issues of decentralization. The Socialist Party, in the field of specialty, tried to change some money — correcting school meals, repairing schools — but, if they were already inadequate, there is also the problem of inflation, which makes the money even more inadequate, exacerbating inequality between municipalities that will have the ability to invest and those who have a rope to the neck. Therefore, this will have consequences from the point of view of territorial inequality in access to education, health, social protection. The enormous resistance there has been, in the area of health, on the part of the autarchs reveals, in a loud manner, that there are no guarantees of correspondence between the financial envelope and the responsibilities transferred. In the social area, she spoke about local contracts, the allocation of social protections, but we still have this absurdity: municipalities can apply to build infrastructures in the social area, but they cannot do the only thing they could really make a contribution, which would be to manage social responses in the areas of childhood, old age, and continuing care. Therefore, municipalities cannot do this management because they insist on the monopoly of mercy and IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity), and there is no decentralization there anymore. The problem of this process is a fundamental problem and a committee, essentially, does not do good or bad! Above all, it will not be a committee that will ensure that these problems are corrected. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u108	For an intervention, Mrs Susana Amador of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would just like to answer some of the questions raised in this debate, but also in the form of a question. The first question is this: do we or do we not want, everyone in this House, a committee to monitor decentralization that allows what we want, that is, more scrutiny, more transparency and, above all, more cadence? As to whether the previous Monitoring Committee could have brought more together and whether it could have given even more information, that is not the question. The question is to know what we want in the future. This is a project for this legislature, which we want to increase information on the part of all parliamentary groups and there is no better time for that than in a committee in which we have the government, all members in the sectoral areas—which are about 20 — ANMP and ANAFRE. Therefore, it is the fundamental time for such follow-up to take place. It is no longer a committee, it is not semantic, it is work, it is supervision to take place, it is democracy, it is the contradiction that makes this House of the Republic and this Parliament. Secondly, I would like to refer to the areas in question, which are noble, fundamental areas, which relate to the well-being of people. Is it not important that the authorities can intervene, in educational matters, at the level of planning, of school equipment, meals and transport, with more direct competence in this area? Is it not a noble area to work on health issues or social areas, among other fundamental areas such as housing? If they are not noble areas, then I don't know what the nobility of service activity to populations is. We know that, in these areas, the proximity to the populations — which the authorities feel so well — adds results, increases agility and adds efficiency in the response.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u110	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u111	Mr. President, I will conclude. It seems they have not listened to me, but a number of important negotiations are taking place, with a view to updating values, whether in education, whether in the social area or in health, with the Technical Development Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u112	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u113	Mr President, with your tolerance, I would like to say that the process is not closed, it is not static and we will certainly have good news, because ANMP has been the privileged interlocutor and the Government has been present, as well as this parliamentary group, to do more and better, to follow up on the next step. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u114	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Nunes, of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u115	Mr President, I will be very quick, because I have only 11 seconds. One of the issues we wanted to make clear in relation to the PS was whether or not it was considered that the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities has represented the Government in the negotiation with the municipalities and should play its role in representing the municipalities in the negotiation with the Government. After your intervention, I would like to ask you if there are negotiations on a case-by-case basis and if you are negotiating the camera to solve the problem, as it seems, is what is happening in the Chambers of the Socialist Party. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u116	The Bureau no longer records requests for intervention, so that, in order to intervene and close the debate, Mr Agostinho Santa of the Socialist Party has the floor. It has two minutes, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The subject that calls upon us, referring to a decisive, structuring and gigantic momentum of transformation, must continue to mobilize all those who want to pursue the path of improving the living conditions of people and intelligent, balanced, cohesion and solidarity of the country as a whole, who, escaping from a castrative centralism, let power also be exercised in proximity. We cannot fail in the decentralization of competences, which is an assumed national design, because this is an opportunity that must be won. We cannot make difficulties an absolute obstacle. No one of good faith will certainly want, riding embarrassment and uncertainty, to stay behind the door making figs so that things run badly. We create conditions for success. One of these conditions, even if instrumental, will be the reactivation of the Decentralisation Monitoring Committee, which the PS Parliamentary Group brings into draft resolution. If its importance is recognized without the need for a great justification speech, more must be stated in the face of the complexity and dynamics of such a comprehensive and demanding reform. We want to continue to move forward: in deepening the process, giving consistency and operationality to the Monitoring Committee, with it also counting on the next phases, in the perception of ways of strengthening and consolidating the transferred competences and in the equation of new areas of deepening, in the way of integrating regional services for the CCDRs (coordination and regional development committees), seeking synergies, operationality and coherence, in the response to the expectations of people to meet the decisive objective set out in the Government Programme, of public consultation in 2024, on regionalisation. We are immobilized by circumstantial constraints, by more complex ones that will appear, it is not, for the Socialist Party, an acceptable alternative. The way is to fight and compromise with success, because we can, because we definitely want, because our people and Portugal need and deserve. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u118	We therefore close the second point of our agenda. We are now heading towards the third point on the agenda, which is from the evaluation of Bill 4 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Eliminates visasgold ( eighth amendment to the legal regime of entry, stay, departure and removal of aliens from national territory ), 109 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Repeals the scheme for the award of visas gold- residence permit for investment activity ( ninth amendment to Law No 23 / 2007 of 4 July, which defines the conditions of entry, stay, exit and departure from national territory ), 113 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Revokes the residence authorisation programme for investment activity by amending Law No 23 / 2007 of 4 July, 114 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — requires the Government to prepare and deliver to the Assembly of the Republic a report assessing the impact of the visasgold programme in the period 2012 and 2021, and 130 / XV / 1. a ( CH ) — Alter the legal regime of the issue of residence permit for investment ( visasgold ), generally together with draft resolution No 78 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent regulation of Decree-Law No 14 / 2021 of 12 February in order to enable the operationalization of the online platform and the submission of online requests for gold visas for real estate purposes in the Autonomous Regions of Madeira and the Azores and in the interior. To submit Bill No. 4 / XV / 1. a ( BE), Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I believe that there will be no one in this Parliament — and few will be in the country — who has doubts about the answers to the following questions: what is the purpose of the golden visas? Who buys them and why buys them? The answers say a lot about this regime of extraordinary permit of residence because we know the countries of origin of their applicants: in Portugal, they are largely people from China, Russia and Angola. With this information we can also understand why they buy the gold visas. It is because they come from authoritarian regimes which, as we know, have elites created by looting natural resources, by attacking the rights and freedoms of their peoples, elites, many of them corrupt—but, certainly, much of them parasitic— who eventually have the possibility of coming to Europe, in exchange for real estate, washing their image and, above all, washing their money. Portugal and some of the European countries consider this normal. Now, we, in the Left Block, in particular, consider this unacceptable. For Europe and Portugal to lend themselves to this role of legitimizing corrupt and parasitic elites of authoritarian regimes and promoting them the possibility of accessing money laundering in European space, through the purchase of real estate space for residence authorisation is unacceptable to us. We therefore propose a measure of justice, a measure of dignity of our country, a measure of dignity of the European space, but also of the countries and peoples that are threatened by these elites, and which consists of the end of these golden visas. We also know that there are many golden visas in Portugal for Russian citizens. As this war has shown us, there are Russian citizens, oligarchs, who have spent money on Europe as a whole. We know that they are present in Portugal, we know that they are probably even on the list of the visasgolds that have been accepted here, but what the government does not give us, what it hides, is the list of these visasgold holders, of such Russian oligarchs in Portugal. The government tells us: "Don't worry. We do not have any Russian oligarchs in Portugal on this list». But the truth is that there is no transparency so that we can validate this information and we know that leaders of the Portuguese Government—this of the former, the PS, the right, some until the Liberal Initiative—... [[IL protests.]] ...even after Russia has been invading Ukraine, they have been promoting visasgold with Russian citizens in the space of influence of these oligarchs. So there are oligarchs, there have seen gold, there are oligarchs with gold visas, but what we know is that the government tells us that there will be none in Portugal. Interestingly, we must be the only exception in this rule at European level. Now, what the Left Block proposes is very simple and direct. In defense of the dignity of our country, of the morality of the law and the fight against these oligarchs who parasitize their countries and who use our country to wash their money, we propose the end of this immoral golden visa regime. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u120	To submit Bill No 109 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), Mr Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The residence permit scheme for investment — the famous, but not for the best reasons, seen gold — came into force in 2012 by the PSD/CDS Government and, as we all know, allows foreign citizens to purchase residence permits. For the PCP, the immorality of the principle, of the idea itself, would suffice to never have been implemented and we said it right then. What the visasgold regime means is that whoever is rich, who has half a million euros to spend here, can buy a visa and get residence permit. Who is poor and has no other means of subsistence other than his work, has enormous difficulties in regulating his situation and is, for years, in an illegal and unjust situation. For the CFP, who lives and works in Portugal, whether an investor or not, should be able to legalize their situation and obtain residence permits. But as always, there are « children and children», also in the allocation of residence permits and, due to the naturalization of nationality, which is, by itself, shameful and condemnable. More: the visasgold were introduced on the assumption that they would create jobs and increase the offer of housing, but none of it happened. The creation of jobs is insignificant, as the numbers show us and, as regards housing, reality speaks for itself. Real estate speculation and the creation of difficulties in the housing lease market were stimulated when what really happened was the acquisition of real estate by large international funds and investors. In fact, what the golden visas created was a friendly regime of money laundering practices, associated with corruption and other white collar crimes. For the PCP, it is necessary to end the immorality and injustice that this regime means. For the CFP, it is simple: residence permits in Portugal should not be marketed. Those who reside and work in Portugal should be able to legalise their situation, but the criterion for residence authorisation cannot be to have money and therefore to use this mechanism to enter and move freely into the Schengen area. Even more so if this means an open way for real estate speculation and economic crime. We therefore propose that we end with the golden visa regime from now on. There are no good and bad oligarchs. It is now over with this regime. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u122	To submit Bill No 130 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What the Left Block brings to us is the revocation of the golden visa regime. Now, the golden visa regime, or similar, is used in 19 of the 27 states of the European Union — I repeat, in 19 of the 27 states — that is, the vast majority of European countries have this system. But it is important that we also do the number regime for what Mrs Alma Rivera has just said. Since 2012, Mrs Deputy, this scheme has attracted Portugal EUR 6, EUR 3 billion.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u124	For what? For how many affordable rental houses?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u125	This is five times the budget for justice this year. We can therefore agree on this : yes, it is important to invest in Portugal, at a time when Portugal is far below the foreign direct investment of other countries of the European Union. I think this would be a good start to talk. As long as the left one simply wants to end the regime and what he proposes are two pages to say'reject everything', there are possibilities to improve and make it a more effective regime, not only in preventing economic crime but also in attracting investment. For example, why not extend the scope of this investment to areas such as agriculture, research, the environment and tourism, as has been done in other countries of the European Union? [[Congrats from the CH.]] Portuguese agriculture, for example, which very needs foreign investment, could be a privileged area of this type of investment, but also innovation and research or the environment could be in the expansion of this scope. Of course, and we agree on that, it is necessary to reintroduce control mechanisms to prevent crime. That is why the proposal from the United Kingdom is that no one who has been convicted, criminally or counter-orderly, for serious financial infringements can benefit from this scheme. It was important for this Parliament to know this: in addition to 19 out of the 27 states of the European Union having regimes similar to ours, or even more advanced, some of the countries of the European Union require €60,000 for authorisations. So the result of ending this regime is very easy to see: everything goes abroad and to other countries of the European Union. [[Congrats from the CH.]] So we have two hypotheses: either we improve this regime, but we continue to say that it is important to attract investment to Portugal, preventing it from being the result of criminal activities, part of money laundering, corruption or other crimes, or we end it and we are telling the Spaniards, who did the regime after us, "Look, we're going to finish, you stay with the investment, because we don't need it." That's what's wrong and that the project of the Arrival aims to correct. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u126	To present the Resolution Project No 78 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) has the floor of Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Five months ago — I repeat, five months ago — that the gold visa processes for real estate investment in autonomous regions and inside are stopped and blocked. the delay of another year in the entry into force of this regime, it is now happening, Mrs and Mrs. Members, an incomprehensible delay in their operationalization and effectiveness. « Waiting for regulation », this is the message of anyone who intends to apply for a golden visa on the SEF online platform ( Foreign and Border Service ). Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, until Wednesday, the government was talking about a problem of a lack of regulation, but now it says that no regulation is necessary. More important than knowing the origin of the problem and the cause of this incomprehensible delay, what matters to us, what we really care about is that this situation is, once and for all, solved and unlocked, so that visasgold who are only eligible in these territories will quickly leave the paper. There's no time to waste, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Madeira, the Azores and the interior cannot continue to be penalized by this delay and by the constraints of the SEF platform. With this initiative, we intend to contribute to the resolution of this problem, sensitizing Parliament, but also the Government, to the urgency of the rapid operationalization of the SEF portal. Each day of delay represents a huge damage to the attractiveness and competitiveness of these regions. See the case of Madeira, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Between 2017 and 2021, this Autonomous Region captured around EUR 60 million — I repeat, EUR 60 million — in golden visas. Last year, Madeira obtained the largest volume of real estate transactions ever, about EUR 620 million. We are talking about large investments and a very important area for this region. We are talking about a very important mechanism to promote territorial cohesion and correct the regional asymmetries of these territories. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us make this initiative possible and help us unlock this delay. This is an excellent opportunity to put into practice territorial cohesion so often. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u128	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Anastácio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We discussed a set of initiatives on the residence permit programme for investment activity, which was created in the context of the change to the legal regime of entry, stay, exit and removal of foreigners from the national territory. These initiatives can, in general, be broadly framed in two large groups of claims. On the one hand, we have the revocation of the golden visa award scheme, which is what the Bloc, the PCP and the PAN intend to do, which also proposes the determination of the impact assessment of the regime in the last decade. On the other hand, we have the initiative of the Arrival, which presupposes the amendment of the regime in the sense of increasing its scope or improving its operationality, extending it to more areas. It is important to say that this law has already been the subject of eight amendments, the last being implemented last year, in 2021, which brought about changes to this regime and reversed the sense that was being followed. With this amendment, the requirements for amounts and types of investment which give access to a residence permit have been increased. This legal regime thus went on to provide that only the buildings acquired for housing located in the autonomous regions of the Azores or Madeira or in the territories of the interior have access to it. It should also be noted that, at the time of its creation, one of its motivations for the inclusion of real estate in investment activities was the assumption that there was a large stock of properties available for sale, the result of a systemic crisis that the world faced at the time, with the origin of the U.S. real estate crisis — the subprime crisis — which also spread to Portugal and caused a contraction in demand. It is widely recognized that the current situation in nothing is confused with this, which was lacking in search. There is, however, an excess of demand and a lack or inadequacy of supply, which is visible, above all, in the main major urban centres and areas most exposed to external demand, such as Lisbon, Porto or Algarve, where there is even an offer oriented to the so-called « high segments », of high incomes, commonly known as « premium markets ». The problems in housing have several causes and the complex challenges do not require simple solutions. The fact that we have not had until today a public housing policy capable of realising and guaranteeing this right to many Portuguese citizens arises by several factors, including that we have not managed to create a public housing park capable of functioning as a stabilizing effect. The golden visas, together with these factors, have impacted the rise of prices and pressure the offer available or to be made available, making it difficult for Portuguese families to access housing. The measures advocated in the initiatives under consideration are relevant objectives, but it is important to always consider them, particularly with regard to housing. The truth is that the last legal change made to the regime has adequately responded to the problem of housing, allowing to safeguard and maintain the dimension of the regime, which realizes something that is also important and fundamental to the country: the promotion of productive investment, job creation, investment in urban requalification, cultural heritage and activities of high environmental or social value. Now, in the view of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, it is necessary to evaluate the effects after the introduction of this legal amendment, to determine whether the balance we wanted and to make a balance between the various dimensions in the presence is verified, in order to question the need or usefulness of additional solutions, either revocation or any other. in this sense, it seems to us that the time is of evaluation of a successful legal change, which saved the dimensions in the presence, which is important to protect in this regime of residence authorization for investment activity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u130	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carla Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I do not need to use the regimental figure of defending honor, but I must start my speech with an explanation. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares lies in this House every time he associates the Liberal Initiative with the golden visas. This also corresponds to a repeated practice of the Left Block, particularly on social networks, and I would like to say to you, Mr President, eyes in your eyes: Mr President. [[Applause from the IL.]] Further: regarding residence permits for investment, vulgar golden visas, they were created as an instrument to attract investment for Portugal and are not a Portuguese idea. In the Portuguese case, contrary to what is often to be transmitted, these visas grant residence rights and not nationality, and it should be recalled that the residence permit can be obtained through different types of investment. [[Protests by PCP MP Alma Rivera.]] Looking at the numbers made available by the SEF, it is clear that most of the investment for visas is carried out in the real estate sector and is acquitted with these authorizations as the almost single cause for increasing house prices. This is when, in fact, the Portuguese real estate sector has attracted the investment of significant amounts by European citizens to whom these commitments are not given, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, in areas with higher price pressure, such as Lisbon and Porto, it is no longer possible to obtain the visa through the acquisition of a property, since the incentive was directed to the interior of the country. In addition, investment related to these visas is often associated, perhaps by populism, with money of criminal origin. It is important not to take the whole side and dissociate policies of legitimate investment in criminal behaviors, which the Liberal Initiative rejects and will always repudiate.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u132	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u133	In this regard it is also important to remember that there are robust regulatory mechanisms, that both the ECB ( European Central Bank ) and the Banco de Portugal are responsible for monitoring. But it is also important that the entities do so in a timely manner and that there are no oversight failures, in line with several alerts already issued.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u134	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u135	Yes, it is important that the State fulfil its essential functions. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u136	Some of the proposals we are going to vote on today to put an end to the golden visas are intended to repeal this incentive for investment in Portugal. For the Liberal Initiative, this is an ideological bias against private investment, based on cases that are not representative of the general reality. Instead of proposing these revocations, we should talk about solutions for the attraction of foreign investment and capital to Portugal. Why does Portugal need specific investment attracting programmes? Why are policies that should be implemented to generate more investment not successful? How to attract, enhance and retain unicorns, startups and all those ecosystems that the government claims to be such a friend? This is what we need to solve. These demonisations are not unique—for example, even today, the theme of PPPs — and they weaken the debate and development of appropriate policies. Instead of setting goals and finding alternatives, discussions on issues of greater relevance to free false moralism and populism are often reduced. So Portugal does not move forward! [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u137	It's been a while! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u138	To speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ofélia Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me to summarize that, for the Left Block and for the NAP, all foreigners who have money to invest in Portugal and request residence authorization for investment are criminals, are corrupt. For the PCP, residence authorization for investment is a privilege of the rich and is discriminatory of the poorest.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u140	And it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u141	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u142	These are, in short, the arguments put forward in the initiatives that we have discussed and which aim at the extinction of the golden visas. [[PSD applause.]] But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we cannot deviate from the central objective of the golden visas: to make the country more attractive and competitive in the capture of foreign investment, placing on the dynamization and growth of our economy. That's why the visasgolds were created, that's what they serve, and that's why they exist. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] The gentlemen. Members know perfectly well that foreign investors are subject to very tight and rigorous scrutiny, which goes through, among other aspects, because they have no criminal record and for reporting on the origin of the money they invest. We know the program isn't perfect...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u143	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u144	...and involving risks, but the radicalism of its extinction is completely disproportionate and inadequate. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u145	It is clear that we must combat crime, corruption and money laundering, but the problem is not solved by the extinction of golden visas, but by strengthening the means of research and supervision, either a priori or a posteriori, to combat this type of crime. Someone has already said it and I repeat, because it is appropriate to do so, that there is no problem in the Directorate-General for Travel that will finish driving letters. What these parties want with these initiatives is that Portugal affords itself the luxury of excluding around EUR 6, EUR 3 billion—which is what the country has built up over the past 10 years with the visasgold — and that the government throws out millions of euros of tax revenues that it collects every year with this foreign investment. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u146	More: due to ideological prejudice, Mr. Members are against the granting of residence permits for investment to foreign nationals who invest in the acquisition or rehabilitation of buildings intended for housing. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is very serious, because, as you know, the law restricts these situations to the autonomous regions of the Azores and Madeira and to the territories of the interior, where there is no real estate pressure, on the contrary. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u147	That is to say, you do not want to place the less-income territories in geography on the investment map, and this is very revealing of the impoverishment policies that they profile and the importance that they give to the political parks of social and territorial cohesion. [[PSD applause.]] That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, we differ in this matter because we do not share this revenge against the wealth and worship of poverty. Mrs. Members, get rid of ideological ties, because golden visas are important for the national economy and the country needs everyone, labour immigrants and investor immigrants. To refuse foreign investment is to hand over this investment to other countries in Europe which compete with Portugal with regimes similar to those of golden visas. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u148	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us then speak of figures and of these EUR 6 billion. I would like to ask where they went and what pockets they are in, because that is the determining issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u150	That is the central issue!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u151	How much did the visasgold mean in housing for the Portuguese, in housing at affordable prices? How many Portuguese came to have a house to live in, how many came to have a house whose income they could pay for the golden visas? How many investors actually live in Portugal? How many jobs have actually been created? I spare them the answer, not to be ashamed: very few. There were very few of them!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u152	How do you know?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u153	It is not possible for a person to say, one day, that it is necessary to end corruption, money laundering, but then, when you have the opportunity to end mechanisms that allow and promote these issues, turn your face around and realize that nothing is with you!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u154	Compliments!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u155	It's a terrible incoherence! I say more: it is exactly the same position as the offshorers, for example. They talk so much about corruption, but when they actually have the opportunity to put their hands on the mass, they don't do it and they see their face. Nor is it good moral to be against immigration only when it is made by people who come to work honestly for our country. That's not morally acceptable, don't count on the PCP for it! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u156	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mrs Alma Rivera, let's see if we understand each other. The honourable Member asked: "How many houses have come to Portugal because of this and how many jobs have been created? » All right, but the question is this: do you think it is ending with the visasgold regime that this investment no longer enters the European Union? Do you think, with any good sense, that anyone who wants to invest in Portugal will stop doing so because of this? Or do you think you are going to Spain, Ireland, Italy or France, and then through the Schengen Area, will you be able to make the investment reach Portugal? Oh, my God! Secondly, a report of 11 March 2022 tells us that the CFP voted against the restriction of the visasgold regime in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u158	It's very dishonest!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u159	It was important that you explain why it is in favour of restricting the golden visas in Portugal but not at European level. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] At least that's what's reported, I'm reading. On 11 March 2022 it is reported that the CFP votes « against a European proposal to put an end to the current visasgold regime ». So it's how it is, I'm saying how it is. [[Protests by PCP MP Alma Rivera.]] Then, ladies and gentlemen, if you think, as we also think, that this programme has problems with the prevention of crime and the origin of money, then we will improve it! We're not gonna kill him, we're gonna get him better! Madam Member, the immigration law also brings a lot of help to illegal immigration to Portugal, but we do not end immigration, we try to improve and create controls, and we create filters!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u160	You're trying well!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u161	No, Mrs. Member, you're very wrong, it's good sense! Therefore, what the CFP says is that it prefers that EUR 6, EUR 3 billion per year go to Spain. We know that in Cuba there is no large foreign direct investment and that in North Korea also does not... [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PCP protests.]] So there is investment in Cuba and North Korea? Oh, my God! [[CH's laughs.]] You know! But there is one thing I want to say to them: since they have such eyes in China and Russia and they are always next to China and Russia, they could see what the regime these countries have for those who invest money there. Coherence was to see what Vladimir Putin's regime and the Chinese regime do about golden visas!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u162	But we want to end it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u163	Madam Member, I am either very mistaken or China even has a more attractive golden visa regime for your territory. And the one who commands in the Chinese regime is neither the Arrival nor the PSD nor the PS: it is the international PC. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u164	The Bureau no longer requests for intervention so that, in order to close the debate, I give the floor to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u165	Mr. President, we realize from this debate that, when the PS says it condemns all the practice related to Angolan blood diamonds, for its history, it does not do it where it hurts any more, which is in the washing of that money when it serves to buy real estate in Portugal. When the PSD condemns Russia's entry into Crimea, it does not do so where it hurts any more, because it does not prevent anyone who could have profited from this Russian invasion to have the right to wash that money through a golden visa in Portugal. [[PSD protests.]] When the Liberal Initiative condemns the Uighur genocide in China, it does not do so where it hurts any more, which is the possibility for those who benefit, for example, from the occupied territories, which belong to the Uighur people, to be able to wash their money and come to do business for Europe through a golden visa.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u166	There's no evidence, it's all invention! Anyone here? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u167	From that point of view, we perceive the coherence of the values of each of these parties. We also know the consistency of the Arrival, which we are now proposing is: « This is not right, what needed was an open bar for residence visas in Portugal. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[CH protests.]] ‘Open bar’ is the arrival proposal for the golden visas, curiously, with two extraordinary arguments. The first is: there are problems in general, but our neighbors do, so we also have to do. If this were applied to corruption, we would say that if the others are corrupt, we must also be, because we will not let the wealth of corruption go elsewhere. And, curiously, it has envy of both the investment protection of Russia and China, which, in my view, is extraordinary.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u168	The PCP is defending China!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u169	It is extraordinary to come to defend that what is good, and even better than the « open bar » that proposes for the gold visas in Portugal, is the protection of investment in Russia or China. It's extraordinary. [[CH protests.]] Now, we realize, therefore, that values are of little value to these parties when what is at stake is money.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u170	The Left Block talking about values? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u171	From that point of view, when it is about using money to defend values, send more money and send much less values. Mrs Carla Castro, I am not going to ask for a defense of honor, because it is neither the domain nor the monopoly of the Liberal Initiative to decide when I lie or stop lying. I'm talking about the facts. [[IL protests.]] What the facts say, and that is what I said, is that there was the involvement of people of the Liberal Initiative in the promotion of golden visas. Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo was President of the Instituto do Turismo de Portugal. I have here a statement from your farm that says, for example, that your statement is important, especially in markets such as Russia, and that is why Portugal's tourism will work in this direction. If you want, I'll send it out, but I have no doubt that you know this reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u172	But it's not for oligarchs!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u173	But who do you think buys the gold visas? Oh, my God! It must be the young people who buy the visas, do you want to see? Oh, my God! [[IL protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u174	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let the honourable Member finish, which he should have done. Mrs. Members of the Liberal Initiative, be liberal, hear the others. Sir, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u175	I conclude with one sentence, Mr President : it seems that the file has now fallen to the Liberal Initiative and that they have finally realized that they are oligarchs or other millionaires who want to wash money that are on the market of visasgold and not the young Russians, Chinese or Angolans, who, as you can see, have all 500 000 € in the account to be able to buy a residence permit in Portugal! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u176	Lies!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u177	We thus close the debate on point 3 of our agenda and move on to point 4 which consists in the joint assessment, in general, of Bills Nos 68 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Alter the Law on the Financing of Political Parties and Election Campaigns, eliminating several exemptions from which political parties benefit, 42 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Eighth amendment to Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June ( Law on the Financing of Political Parties and Election Campaigns ), and third amendment to Organic Law No 2 / 2005 of 10 January ( Law on the Organization and Operation of the Entity of Political Accounts and Financing ), 102 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Eliminates the tax benefits of political parties and reduces the value of public subsidies ( eighth amendment to the Political Party Financing Act, Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June ), 110 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Reduce public funding to political parties and electoral campaigns ( eighth amendment to Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June ), 116 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Revoks tax benefits allocated to political parties and decreases the limits of election campaign spending, amends the Law on the Financing of Political Parties and Electoral Campaigns, 117 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Increases the transparency of the accounts of the parties and budgets of the election campaigns and ensures that the Entity of Political Accounts and Financing has a stable organic structure, amending the Law on the Financing of Political Parties and Election Campaigns and the Law on the Organization and Operation of the Entity of Political Accounts and Financings and 123 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Introducing measures for fiscal justice, equal treatment and transparency in the financing of political parties and electoral campaigns ( eighth amendment to Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June ). To submit Bill No 68 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), Mr Pedro Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft law that the Arrival presents today to this House is of the most elementary justice. The amendment we propose to the financing of political parties and electoral campaigns aims to bring the parties closer to the common Portuguese. We cannot demand that the people pay fortunes, for example, in IMI (municipal property tax) and that political parties be exempt. How can we explain to the Portuguese, who, even last May, had to pay their IMI, with great sacrifice, with great effort, without even having the right to postpone or the deadline for reducing the tax, which political parties do not have to pay? [[Congrats from the CH.]] How can we explain to the Portuguese, who have increasingly difficulty putting food on the table or fuel in the car, who have the greatest tax burden of all time, with taxes and more taxes, that political parties are, with the law on their side, exempt from most taxes?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u179	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u180	The arrival has always considered the IMI the stupidest tax that exists, because, after having achieved, with difficulties, a home of its own, you must pay for it eternally, either by location, by sight or, any day, by the time you leave and enter home. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The IMI is not understood, but if it is for the time being compulsory for the common Portuguese and for companies that generate wealth for the country, it is at least understood that the parties do not have to pay. In January 2019, the parties submitted to the Political Accounts and Financing Entity the total amount of EUR 50 million in IMI-free properties EUR 50 million. However, in 2012 this value was EUR 20 million, so we are talking about more than a duplication of the value of buildings. at a time when tax revenue, as well as tax burden, is absolutely memorable in Portugal, it seems to us that justice should end this exemption so that the parties can share the tax burden with the citizens. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Look at the PCP, the arautos of morals and good habits, defenders of the poor and the unprotected, who say to propose a radical cut in the grants of the parties, but, in the bill that they present here, not a word about the IMI.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u181	Of course, they're owners!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u182	We accept that democracy has costs and that dependence on private funding needs to be avoided. We therefore maintain subsidies to political parties, limits to funding by individual donors and the exclusion of business financiers. However, especially in times of difficulty for so many Portuguese people, who have suffered in the skin the costs of a pandemic and who see their lives devastated by indebtedness, we must say, without reservation, that democracy does not need so many costs. And we say more: any party that intends to come to manage the public thing, that is, the money of the other Portuguese, should give the example of restraint and, now, of imagination, of being able to do more with less, of relying more on the commitment and effort of its individual supporters and less on the state. Will it be acceptable for parties to spend 9 million euros on election campaign, when paying 267 € to an injured and disabled firefighter for life in the fires of Pedrogão? Repeat: 267 €! [[Congrats from the CH.]] We must never forget this, particularly today, when 66 people lost their lives for five years, 250 were injured and some with disabilities for the rest of their lives in the tragic fires in the Central part of the country. Will it be acceptable for parties to continue to have so many political privileges when an elderly person, who has worked his whole life, receives a poor pension to be spent on medicine pharmacy? [[Congrats from the CH.]] The current legal framework favours public funding due to the need to ensure the public and democratic intervention of the parties and to mitigate differences between large and small parties. But there is a substantial difference between ensuring the parties a residual value so that they can maintain their activity and a dignified campaign and many of the excesses that are seen today. In fact, political parties should have no more benefits than taxpayers, who are basically their financing. Let us see if the parties of the system will continue to protect themselves, and therefore whether the system will be protecting the system, or if they will finally have the courage to make sacrifices, as the Portuguese do in their homes. For our part, we're here. [[Congratulations from the CH, with Mr Pedro dos Santos Frazão standing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u183	To submit Bill No. 42 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), Mr. Hugo Carneiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The financing of political parties and electoral campaigns is a structural element of the functioning of our democracy, since they are one of its instruments. Parties are collectives of an associative nature who have a public utility, the service to the Republic, based on the principle of proportionality. Only strong parties, compliant with their suppliers and workers, and subject to public scrutiny, can help to credible the party system in a context where so many use populism and demagogy to reduce the same system.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u185	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u186	These some claim that this system is bad and, instead of presenting proposals with substance to improve it, use the worst in politics: discredit the whole system, thinking that, with this, they will succeed, they will excel as better than others. [[PSD applause.]] Just look at the density of some bills so we can easily conclude what they really want. And think about it: the extremes of this House that sometimes propose the same thing agree! The PSD does not align with this contentless strategy, the PSD presents itself in this Parliament with a bill that actually aims to solve many practical problems, from day to day, which probably many do not even know or someday have faced. The credibility of politics is due to the credibility of the way in which elections, accountability and the functioning of political parties take place, and we therefore propose, firstly, that parties only have to pay the expenses they have actually incurred. The parties cannot be convicted in court on the basis of the principle of mistrust or because someone, without permission, spent on benefit, knows who. More: rules are laid down for the election campaign grant in interim electoral campaigns or for the second round of presidential elections. We also definitely end with the possibility of independents, in actual elections, to have campaign profits. Let it be clear that the current law allows, as it has already happened, a group of electors to enrich on behalf of the State, not accounting for this money to any entity. Let me, in this regard, make one aside: it is interesting to see that so many populist parties intend to end or reduce tax subsidies or benefits from the parties and no one has proposed to end the profit of individual subjects in election campaign, as is the case with the independents. Great coherence! This does not happen to political parties, since no campaign can be profitable for a party. And it's okay. We also solve problems of interpretation of the law or its practical application, with regard to spending limits with outsiders, and we clarify that only real estate affected by political activity can have certain benefits. Finally, we want to correct the deadlines for replying to the Dispute Settlements and Public Funding Entity in order to make the exercise of that same right enforceable and full. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What we propose does not abandon the formula of essentially public partisan financing, in the molds already provided for today, but we completely refuse that private companies can finance parties, which is the logical consequence that would be placed on the table if many of the projects we are discussing today were approved. To finish, let me reaffirm our availability to improve our expertise project. Only this serious dialogue path will, after all, strengthen the party system and transparency in party financing and make the debate constructive and understandable to the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u187	To submit Bill No 102 / XV / 1. a ( IL), Mr Bernardo Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Why do political parties not pay taxes? Why do parties not pay IMI or IMT (municipal tax on expensive transmissions of buildings) in the valuable buildings they have on the Avenue of Liberty or in the Rat? Why don't the parties pay either car tax or stamp tax, unlike the Portuguese out there? Because parties do not pay VAT (value added tax) in purely commercial activities such as the Front Party! Is that what you're talking about? It's already known the famous offshore of Avante! Could not connect with command "%s": %s. The parties that charge taxes on historical peaks to the Portuguese are also the parties that do not pay taxes. The Liberal Initiative proposes today again — we have already done so in the Budget and in the previous legislature — to put an end to these tax exemptions, because, as far as the law is concerned, we believe that neither the citizens nor the organizations are below the parties and that there must be equality. We do not propose it for the financial cost, because these tax exemptions cost about 300 000 or 400 000 € per year, which represents about 1 million and a half per legislation. In order to have a notion, in this four-and-a-half-year legislature, the parties, between funding grants and election campaign, will receive around EUR 120 million. It is therefore proposed that the parties abdicate by 1 %. Only the Socialist Party, which has a majority in this House, is asked to abdicate 1 % of all that it has already received from the state, to be on equal with the Portuguese. We therefore do not propose this because of the financial cost, but because of the cost of democratic degradation, the growing lack of confidence among the Portuguese parties and institutions. Ending the tax exemptions of the parties is therefore a small cost for the parties, but a great gain for the democracy of the country. [[Applause from the IL.]] The project of the Liberal Initiative also proposes, as is known, a strong reduction in existing public subsidies. We defend the existence of public subsidies — democracy has costs and parties must not be in the hands of one or two private entities — and we even propose to extend it to other parties which are not yet in the parliamentary system, but the values of subsidies do not have to be as high as they are today. As I have already said in total in this Parliament, the parties will receive almost EUR 120 million. of these, 75 million are only from the financing grant, and — by force, of course, from the votes — 31 million will go to the PS. So only with the financing grant, we have EUR 16 million a year to go to the parties—for example, it is more than the IRS (tax on income of natural people) Young and it is also more than the Return Programme, the so-called programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u189	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u190	And I speak — I repeat — only of a grant. We don't think parties need that much money. They have to modernise themselves, they have to digitize many processes, they have to be more effective and have less waste. Democracy has costs, it is true, but they don't need to be so high. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[In the meantime, he re-chaired Vice-President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u191	To submit Bill No 110 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), Mr Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u192	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by saying that this debate was triggered by the presentation of a draft law of the PSD, taking up the initiative presented in the past legislature, which has not been debated. This bill proposes some changes to the law of party financing, in order to solve practical problems that the application of existing law has been provoking. It does not increase or decrease the revenue of parties and campaigns and addresses aspects that deserve attention and that we are available to discuss in the specialty. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know from experience that any debate here in the Assembly of the Republic on party financing brings together all the demons of demagogy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u193	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u194	The self-proclaimed moral prosecutors of the Republic do not often fail to accuse the parties of seeking to approve jackpots for their own benefit, even if nothing in the initiatives under discussion allows them to draw such conclusions. There is no shortage of proposals giving the flank to self-flagulation, such as assuming the presumption of delinquency that populist discourse falls on political parties, as if there was no entity at the Constitutional Court with the sole function of monitoring their accounts and penalizing any irregularities, which makes the parties the most controlled entities in this country, as regards the origin of revenue and the realization of their expenses. The CFP considered it important in this framework to represent its initiative to substantially reduce the public funding of the parties and the maximum amount of expenditure admitted to election campaigns. We do so, not because of any anti-party attitude, but to make clear the basic position of the CFP on party financing. For many years, the CFP was the only one that defended the ban on the financing of parties by companies, against the position of all the other existing parties, which considered it admissible. Natural people have convictions and ideologies, companies have business and interests. The financing of the parties by companies could never be disinterested and, in good time, although late, it was banned. Although the existence and activity of the parties should be valued by the democratic State, which should not treat them as companies, they should not be understood as institutions living at the expense of the State. It does not shock us that the State supports parties as non-profit entities, which are, in particular in tax matters, or which can finance their activities, in particular in their institutional representation, through reasonable and limited grants. However, we believe that parties should not live at the expense of the State but, essentially, of the individual financial contributions of their militants and sympathizers. The law that we still have — and for that reason has always relied on the opposition of the CFP — brings down a suspicious judgment on individual contributions to the parties, as if this matter were not subject to thorough scrutiny. However, it treats the parties as though they were almost public bodies, providing them with vociful subsidies which, depending on the number of votes, assume a criterion of manifest inequality, when the State should be guided by equal treatment of the parties. Finally, the CFP considers that it makes every effort to reduce the ceiling on expenditure on election campaigns. Not only electoral spending is something that exactly shocks people, how to prevent so-called millionaire campaigns will introduce a desired factor of greater equity in campaigns. That is the meaning of the amendments which the CFP considers to be just and which it fights today, as always. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u195	To submit Bill No 123 / XV / 1. a ( BE), Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u196	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The financing of parties is a subject given to various populisms, but I believe that, in the name of democracy, in the name of the importance that political activity has for democracy and in the name of the role that political parties have in political activity, this issue must be seriously discussed. We know that most of the times it is used populistly, it is not to attack the parties, it is to attack democracy and, from this point of view, we do not follow these campaigns.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u197	And that's not demagogy? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u198	It's Venezuela's democracy!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u199	Is there an inequality, which is incomprehensible, in the tax benefits of parties? We think so. It is not now, we have already said so in the past, we have already made proposals on this matter in the past and we will vote in favour of all the proposals aimed at eliminating the tax benefits to the parties. We do so in coherence with a broader view of tax benefits. For example, we also argue that it makes no sense that the Holy House of Mercy, the various holy houses—in practice the whole sector of the IPSS— also have IMI exemptions. However, curiously, several of the parties that rise against the exemption of IMI from political parties, on this matter, say nothing. However, we believe that tax benefits should in fact carry out very specific functions and it makes no sense, in both cases, that they are applied. We also believe that electoral campaigns should have limitations on their funding. Why? Because we realize that, most of the time, money is badly spent, not because parties do not think it can bring more votes, but because, in practice, it does not serve environmental purposes, serves political purposes, often doubtful, but, in fact, it has no useful consequences for the definition of vote. The fundamental point is the definition of vote, information to people, which should be the greatest of the objectives, but from this point of view there is no practical consequence. I conclude by saying that with the proposals we make we are not on the side of those who think that there should be a change in the financing paradigm of parties in Portugal. We believe that, yes, there must be a primacy of public funding, which is a guarantee that there is also a great scrutiny of this funding and that, yes, the remaining funding must be made by individual persons — activists or not, but individuals — duly identified, because the alternative to this is already known in the past. When it is a national scandal today what happened with Ricardo Salgado and with BES ( Banco Espírito Santo ), we do not forget how he and so many entrepreneurs or companies in this country, in the past, put investments in several baskets, that is, in several presidential candidates and in several parties. We know how this has been detrimental to our democracy, to our construction as a state and to the reality of the separation between public interest and private interest, so we do not want to return to that reality. We believe that supervision is better and should also be made on the basis of public funding, but that this funding is in fact for information, which is consistent and does not serve for uses for which we often do not understand the political objectives. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u200	To present the Bill Nos 116 and 117 / XV / 1a(PAN), you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u201	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to apologize for not having been present to present our initiative, but, as you know, the meetings with the Prime Minister are taking place because of Ukraine, and it was not actually possible. On the subject we discussed here, during last month, many of us, like any owner, had to pay the first benefit of the IMI. However, the parties we represent did not have to pay even a hundred IMI because they are exempt. We talked about real estate that in 2019 was estimated to have a value of EUR 50 million and yet did not pay any kind of IMI to the State. The tax bills do not, however, stay here. Anyone who buys a car pays a vehicle tax, but if a political party makes it is also free, an exemption that costs the public record €7000 per year. If the public subsidies of the parties are a guarantee of democracy — which we effectively defend and accompany — these tax bills within IMI and IMT or vehicle tax do not seem to make any sense to us and promote an injustice that takes money away from the public record. That is why the NAP proposes the repeal of some tax benefits that are unjustified and that at nothing contribute to greater pluralism or safeguard democracy. With regard to the other, we do not actually follow the limitation of the grant of political parties, we believe that it must be public, above all. But the measures aimed at combating spending and the imbalance that we are experiencing today, particularly during the election campaigns, not only do we follow them as we present an initiative aimed at reducing these same subsidies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u202	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u203	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We have come back to the issue of the financing of political parties, on which recently the Assembly of the Republic, where a deep reflection on the subject has even taken place, has adopted significant amendments — which does not mean that they cannot be improved — to focus mainly on the tax exemptions which political parties are beneficiaries, not only, but in particular. One question that has already been raised several times during the debate is how to explain these tax exemptions as if they had fallen, as a meteorite, within the Portuguese legal order and were an inexplicable whim. I think they explain, explaining that democracy has costs, that we can give ourselves to the effort to search for arguments and history and to avoid the populism that everything mixes, that brings to the colloquium themes that are not those we are discussing, that deal with other funding, other problems of the state, as if they could somehow solve some of the problems put here. I will not do the exercise of looking at what other parties spend or stop spending, legitimately, under the law, because this is an exercise that does not bring us any advantage either. Political parties do not have to be equal, they do not have identical militancy structures, they do not have identical territorial deployment structures and therefore I cannot tell the neighbor what to do. Although it does not cease to be curious that it is usually proposed to eliminate revenue that is precisely those that the parties that propose elimination do not have. However, as far as funding is concerned, the model that we have is essentially based on a public component: party subsidy, campaign subsidy, but also through tax benefits. And it is not a whim, it is a reality that stems from a reasoning that seeks to ensure that political parties are independent of economic powers in the development of their activity, which seeks to have parties whose agendas do not depend on their financiers. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u204	We can cross the Atlantic, check the recent jurisprudence of the Supreme Court of the United States, the famous Citizens United, and see the impact that this decision had on the quality of American democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We look at the debate, of the most dramatic events in the United States today, about the control of use and the carrying of weapons, and we see that the United States Congress is paralyzed in its ability to change legislation that creates an overwhelming consensus among citizens, because the vast majority of senators and congressmen are dependent on funding, for their elections, of many financiers, that is, the sponsorship of the National Rifle Association, of the national association of arms carriers.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u205	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u206	Therefore, the choice between subsidies and public funding or whether we are dependent on private funding is the consequence of being free parties or not, able to respond first to citizens and not to those who finance them, as if that were a priority. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But there is another reason, because Article 44. that of the Tax Benefit Statute — which, in addition to the law of political parties and their financing, is an element to be taken into account — provides for various tax benefits through exemptions from various taxes. This is based on the principle that entities which do not seek profit and which develop public activities relevant to the community, such as political parties — whether or not we like our democracy, and I think that virtually all parties in this House like democracy, want to preserve it and recognize that parties are indispensable to this reality, and must therefore admit that they are lacking, otherwise they would not have formed themselves as political parties — should be able to benefit, because they do not seek profit, from some tax benefits. So the question that could also be raised was: they will agree, then, with the honourable Members. Members who today propose the elimination of tax benefits for political parties that eliminate the remaining tax exemptions provided for in the Statute of Tax Benefits for Religious Confessions, for the IPSS, for trade unions, for associations of agricultural professionals or trade, for private educational establishments which are relevant to sports associations, for youth associations? It is that if the idea is that we have to treat everyone equally, regardless of the idiosyncrasies of each one, these tax benefits too should all disappear. The Block was the only party who has given us notice that it has some reservations about IPSS and the benefit of the IMI, but it is the only one who, with some consistency, has shown in its debate a different position. We disagree, we believe that IPSSs should not in fact be penalized and should benefit from this benefit, but indeed the Left Block is the only one, those who do not propose elimination, which explains precisely why, that is, because this limit and this reality exist. Mr Bernardo Blanco said recently that we have to place the parties on equal footing with the Portuguese. However, the parties are a reality different from the Portuguese individually considered. The parties are different from the companies,... [[Protests by Mr Bernardo Blanco.]] ... are different from associations, and that is why they also have a differentiated tax treatment, in which the elimination of tax benefits would result in loss of revenue and loss of revenue would result in a decrease in the quality of democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] To provide the credibility of the institutions, as you mentioned, and with what I agree, is to keep the parties free from the economic dependence of those who are their financiers. It is not cutting its neutral sources of funding, which are the public, that we achieve this objective. in this debate, and to conclude, we welcome the PSD initiative, because it makes different and brings to us proposals that are constructive — about agents, about loans, about debts, about second round funding of presidential elections, about interim elections, about ability to deliver accounts — and we expect, in particular, to develop some of the proposals. We will not all follow up, but the PSD actually shows concern about the quality of the performance of the accounts and the work presented. In relation to one of the NAP projects, the one that does not eliminate tax benefits also seems to us that there may be some work in terms of transparency and strengthening the relationship with citizens. As for the rest, this is the historical position of the Socialist Party and it seems to us that it is based on the quality of democracy that we want. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u207	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u208	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Free, of the parties that are here, is certainly what was elected with less spending in the campaign,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u209	And with fewer votes too!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u210	... having several times euro ratios spent by higher vote. So if there are parties that say that the campaign grant of the parties should be severely reduced, the question I ask is whether they want to campaign — and can succeed! — as the Book does, without needing to go to tens of thousands of euros. Just because we are in this position, the Free is perfectly willing to say that the financing of the parties should be public, otherwise the parties become trapped in private interests. Where resources are to be placed, but in this debate we have not heard about this, for example by strengthening the entity that controls the finances of the parties, which is run out of human resources. No one came here to say that this was where those resources should be. If we have less money in campaigns, we can and should think of the most unjustified environmental and visual pollution that many campaigns, without any need, bring to our country, without any political effectiveness, even. And we could, and should also, talk about — and to this end, Mr President — of the obligations that parties should have in terms of returning to society, as in other Member States of the European Union, like Germany, in which parties must have foundations that develop studies and, for example, have to...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u211	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u212	Yeah, I'll finish. As I said, we should talk about the obligations that parties should have to return to society, for example, not spending on outdoors to spend on study centers and foundations that accompany the country's problems. We would all certainly be much better, as we would be better without populist debates about reducing the public subsidy of political parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u213	Mr Hugo Carneiro, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u214	Mr. President and Mrs. Members: I intend to leave some telegraphic notes, or additional elements, with regard to what I have already had the opportunity to mention. Since 2013, the parties had 10 % reductions in permanent public subsidies and 20 % reductions in electoral campaigns. It was by the hand of the PSD and the CDS, with the agreement of many parties here within, that these reductions became permanent. This matter has been dealt with in due course, therefore, there is no confusion or doubt as to what the PSD position on the value of subsidies is, for example. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u215	In due time, one of the most difficult moments in Portugal's recent history, when we had the troika intervention, the PSD and CDS permanently transformed these cuts into subsidies. The tax benefits, tax expenditure, if they are to see the State budget this year, but looking at the history of the General State Account, represent EUR 12 billion. And here come some of the gentlemen. Members argue that we must end the tax benefits to the parties. But what tax benefits? In 2021, VAT for the parties was €100 000, I repeat, €100 000!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u216	Then you don't need it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u217	We're discussing 100 000 €! The biggest demagogy we can have is this kind of discussion! [[PSD applause.]] Moreover, some consistency is also imposed on some parties. The party arrives and the Liberal Initiative party proposes to revoke all the tax benefits and some more, but does not propose to revoke the exemption on the IRC (tax on the income of the public ). And I ask, why? If it is to end everything, then propose that too!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u218	Because a party is an association of public utility! That's obvious!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u219	It is that these entities, or some of them, manage their parties, probably as companies. PSD is not a company, I'd like to reaffirm this here, and it doesn't even distribute profits. Moreover, the Left Block — and I understand why it is doing so — suggests at a certain point that electoral campaigns should not be exempt from VAT. There was a great confusion a few years ago about this, but your proposal refers to a law that has never entered into force. Today, political parties do not benefit from VAT exemption in election campaigns. A few months ago, there was an independent who went there with a confusion in the press, attacking political parties, but there is no such tax exemption.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u220	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u221	I shall conclude very quickly, Madam President. Regarding the IMI — including the NAP talks about this, both here and in the Azores — I would like to stress that the PSD only defends the exemption of the IMI when the seat of a party is dedicated to party activity. IMI collection already exists today in venues that do not work for party activity.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u222	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u223	I conclude, Madam President, by saying that we must make this discussion seriously and that the PSD is available to reach agreement, as a matter of fact, even with regard to increasing transparency, such as the NAP. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u224	Mr Bernardo Blanco, of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u225	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I just wanted to give some clarifications. The subsidies dropped at that time, but, however, the value has already risen, because the number of votes has risen and the IAS (indicating social support) has also risen. As a result, values have already risen and, as I said, the total subsidies are EUR 120 million. It is EUR 120 million in this Parliament, when the tax benefits are 1, 5 million, which, as I said, is 1 %. Mr Delgado Alves knows perfectly well that it is not because we take that 1 % that parties will lose any kind of independence, because the value is low and is, exactly because of the value being low that must end. It is not a matter, as I have already said, of financial cost, of being unfair. On the second point, no party that proposed to reduce the subsidies proposed to finance the parties through companies. None! But you know what would open the door to that? It would open the door to this the norm that is in the PSD project, that the PS will make it possible, from the prescription of the parties'debts from 20 years to 5 years, which may well constitute indirect funding because companies will forget to charge or the parties to pay and the companies will indirectly be financing the parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u226	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u227	Therefore, the only project that PS will enable is the only project that can make companies finance the parties. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u228	For an intervention, Mrs Inês Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u229	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Very telegraphically, with regard to the speeches by the Members. Mr Pedro Delgado Alves and Mr Hugo Carneiro have already welcomed them for accompanying the NAP on transparency. However, as far as subsidies are concerned, the only thing the NAP proposes is that there is indeed a 50% reduction in campaign subsidies. In a presidential campaign, for example, the law allows more than EUR 4 million to be spent today, and this seems to us to be obviously excessive. We defend that democracy is indeed healthy, that it is plural and that public funding is useful for that, but there must be a maximum ceiling which is reasonable and which is also suited to the country's economic reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u230	To close this debate, Mr Pedro Pinto, of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u231	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we once again realized what the feeling of political parties towards society is. The system defends itself against the incongruence of not realizing how the Portuguese continue to pay taxes and political parties remain exempt. The non-submission of draft laws by the Socialist Party and also the Free Party — certainly because the PS bench did not leave! — demonstrates that, once again, everything is fine, the political class avoids talking to Portuguese, avoids feeling and knowing the problem of Portuguese. We also understand why the end of the IMI is not relevant to the PSD. It has at this moment the largest real estate, hitting even the PCP that, yes, have the largest Portuguese offshore, which is the Front Party! [[Congrats from the CH.]] The system continues to protect the system. PCP, PS and PSD, the old guard parties, are together in protecting their rights — rights they say — forgetting the rights the Portuguese people have. Right, yes, to health, where there are 1 million and 300,000 Portuguese without a family doctor or some without consultations for years, seeing the same to be postponed, sometimes to death. Right, yes, to security, because the gangs of young people are increasingly spreading fear in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto, in addition to the constant attacks on security forces by certain communities in our country. Right, yes, to have a dignified old age, with higher pensions, and not with the miserable ones that most of our elders have. Rights, yes, to young people, to be able to have a decent housing and conditions to do so. [[Congrats from the CH.]] These are the rights we should be concerned about today, but, no, the concern of some political parties is to continue to be tax-free. Populism — and Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares very much like to talk about populism — is the Left Block supporting parties like Podemos, who had a support of 7 million Venezuela for its creation. That, yes, sir, is populism! [[Congrats from the CH.]] We understand that the Socialist Party — and I conclude, Madam President — wants the privileges of both political parties and politicians to be maintained. We know that there are, in this bench, Saudiists of José Socrates, who continues to be immune to everything and to everyone and who came again to ask for the vital grant to which he has the right, even though it was he who proposed the end of the subsidies, saying that it would be the first to abdicate from it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u232	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u233	I will finish, Madam President. It should have been the right to return the money that remained from the Portuguese state and from the Portuguese state. That was the right I should have! from our side and from the bench of arrive, we will not stop fighting. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u234	We turn to point 5 of the agenda consisting of the joint debate, in general, of Bill Nos 25 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Amendment to the Urban Rent Scheme, 118 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Recognition of lease contracts ( eighth amendment to the New Urban Rent Scheme ), 119 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Stability in lease contracts ( seventy-eighth amendment to the Civil Code ), 128 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Amends the Urban Rent Scheme and provides for non-discrimination in access to housing, and 131 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Amends the Urban Rent Scheme. To submit Bill No. 25 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), Mr Bruno Dias of the PCP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u235	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP submits its draft amendment law to the Urban Rent Scheme in order to respond concretely to the very serious problems that are placed in access to housing. For thousands and thousands of people, the dramatic situation they have been facing could have been avoided if the CFP proposals had been considered and approved. The alerts should have been heard, not only from the PCP, but from numerous organizations, institutions, movements that, in the field, from north to south of the country, accompany and intervene in this area. However, the political option that prevailed was different. By the option of PS, PSD, CDS, IL and Arrival, the interests of economic power prevailed and lost populations, families, young people who saw and denied their right to housing on behalf of profits and real estate speculation. It's been like this so far, but it doesn't have to go on like this. People must not continue to be expelled from their homes and neighborhoods. Young people do not have to continue delaying their life plans, diverting the eyes from an increasingly distant horizon, where living in a house in conditions of dignity, privacy, comfort, where raising children and building a happy life is a project within reach of each one and not an unattainable extravagance. This reality can be transformed, it has to be transformed. It is within the scope of this House today to approve the proposals of the CFP: to give stability to lease contracts; to defend the rights of tenants, preventing abusive denunciations of contracts and unacceptable arbitrariness that continue to be imposed; to put an end to the infamous National Rent Balcony, known as the "poster shop", which has so often served as a weapon of attack against tenants; to allow, in a sustainable way, the regularization of payments; to defend tenants with older contracts, so that they are not confronted with new and exorbitant increases; to ensure social follow-up in clear situations. This is the meaning of the PCP bill with the amendment of the relevant housing legal framework, from the outset, repealing the serious rules of the infamous eviction law of 2012.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u236	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u237	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The lease market is neither a machine to make money for some at the expense of the suffering and difficulties of many. It is at issue a constitutionally consecrated right, the right to housing, but in order to build its vision of cities free of poor people, they consecrated a social apartheid that is affecting more and more people, which is affecting entire neighborhoods and territories throughout the country, which is leading to the closure of shops and services rooted in communities, which close doors to the brutal increase in incomes. It is urgent to respond to these problems with concrete, just and positive solutions. That is the meaning of the CFP proposal. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u238	For the presentation of Bill No 118 / XV / 1. a ( BE) has the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Block of Left.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u239	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The theme of housing is recurrent in the Assembly of the Republic because the country is in crisis. The sector was liberalized, the doors were opened to real estate funds, speculation, and the results are in sight — people are being evicted from their homes. People who have lived their whole lives in the same house are being expelled from the house where they constituted their family, where they raised their children from a house where they never imagined they could not live. For those who think that the cases of harassment in the lease are a mirage, I recommend that they see the report of the journalist Conceição Lino, who passed by days ago. There are cases of violence, harassment about anyone who wants a house, about who has the right to a house, but today it is expelled and deprived of that right by whoever wants to speculate and profit with the right to housing and to have a decent home. Income is far beyond the reasonable, they do not allow anyone to have a decent life with an average salary in Portugal. The law of evictions has been and is the policy of the right and is not working. Liberalism doesn't work! [[IL Member's laughs João Cotrim Figueiredo.]] Liberalism crushes the poorest, creates ghettos and reserves a right, which should be of all, to a privilege only of the richest, as well explained by the Liberal Initiative when it did the favor of telling us what it thinks about what housing should be.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u240	You live in your head!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u241	Without robust public policies, it will not be possible to solve the problem of housing in Portugal. It is not enough to build some houses, however important this policy is, it is necessary to limit the waste, it is necessary to give stability to contracts, it is necessary that contracts exist and that the right to housing does not have informal links, as now happens. I wanted to greet the PCP for bringing these projects here. We follow these proposals and add some contributions. We want to increase the minimum term of lease contracts for five years to ensure a minimum of stability to the lives of those who rent. Whoever rents a house to live needs stability and five years is the least we can offer. We want to close the door to a file involving the use of non-renewable contracts to escape a legislative amendment made by this Parliament, which protected tenants in case of non-renewal of contracts. Finally, we want to amend the Urban Rent Scheme in order to densify an aspect already present in the law. The law already allows legal recognition of unwritten contracts, but only in case of eviction. What we want is that, at any time, a tenant who has an informal, oral contract, under pressure from the owner, can denounce this contract and formalize it, ending with informality in the housing market. Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party, I address you because I think it is very obvious today that liberalism does not work, it does not work for society. [[IL Member's laughs João Cotrim Figueiredo.]] Therefore, the challenge I am launching is that the Socialist Party gives up the liberal organization of the housing market and approves the proposals that are at stake today, not only those of the Left Block, but also those of the PCP, which take a step, however small it may be, important in the paper revolution that you say are doing in the housing sector. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u242	To submit Bill No. 128 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) has the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u243	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The problems of housing in our country are increasingly serious, either by the health crisis, or by the policies of successive governments that so far are felt, either by an unsustainable tourism model, which pushes people out of cities. For whatever reason, the truth is that the country has consistently failed in housing policies. It does not give the slightest possibility of acquiring a home for young people, who often have precarious jobs, with low wages, in large urban centres and who are forced to set their lives and consequently their dwelling in a deregulated real estate market, aggravated by tourism and real estate speculation. More: housing has serious problems with regard to poverty and the most vulnerable. We simply open the television channels to see that we continue to have barracks, uninhabitable social housing, among so many other problems that continue to mark those who need them most and who have more needs. The defence of the rights of housing tenants is fundamental, but we cannot fall into the mistake of providing housing in an inaccessible market, making it unattractive, and deverting the objective that we intend to defend, as some initiatives are doing. The answers must be for tenants, but also for lords. At the same time, it is essential that there be guarantees of effective social follow-up throughout the clearance process when this happens, ensuring - as we propose in the initiative we present today - the prevention of evictions into public housing of vulnerable people without ensuring conditions of re-housing worthy of the entire family unit. And all the family aggregate are the people who make up it, as well as its animals, who are increasingly considered as an integral part of the family. The State will never abandon the follow-up of these families until it fully fulfils its right to housing, which has not happened. Finally, it is important to remember that more than 50 % of Portuguese households have a pet. Thus, when, in circumstances of life, it becomes necessary to make certain changes, as is the case with the change of home, because family income has changed or because the decision to live in a different location is made, citizens cannot be prevented from having access to rent because they have pets and cannot be encouraged to abandon them.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u244	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u245	I'm really finishing up, Madam President. This causes great anxiety, especially if they cannot find a gentleman who accepts them, including at the level of public housing, as the NAP definitely wants to close. Whatever the case, the mere possibility of not accepting pet animals at the time of lease generates a great inequality for family persons and aggregates, which has to end.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u246	For the presentation of Bill No 131 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), Mr Filipe Melo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u247	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by saying to the extreme-left benches that the right to housing they claim is a right that must be the State to guarantee, not the private ones. It is good that you understand this once and for all. Those who have the duty to guarantee housing for the population are the State and not the private ones, the private ones are also citizens and, I repeat, it is good that they understand this once and for all. In Portugal, there is a housing-related problem that tends to get worse and worse because the lack of supply in the face of high demand naturally leads to an increased price increase and makes incomes inaccessible to a large part of the Portuguese. to the high values of income is also the demand of creditors, high security values, contracts without renewal, among many others. I recall that the Barometer Trust of Owners, developed by the ALP ( Lisbon Association of Owners ), shows that 95 % of owners do not trust the affordable lease programs of the Government and the authorities and, in this House, many forget that the owners of these buildings have high tax and structural charges, such as condominiums, insurance, works. More: 2 in 10 owners live exclusively in these incomes and, in many cases, the income received is a supplement to the pensions they take. Mrs. Members, the enactment of Law No. 13 / 2019 has been unbalanced in strengthening the rights of tenants in the face of the landlords and has led to a greater withdrawal of the offer, as it has further accentuated the mistrust already felt. Moreover: the Uniplaces platform has surveyed 400 higher education students and concluded that 60 % of the owners have only one real estate in the lease market, therefore not being big owners, as the extreme left likes to mention in this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u248	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u249	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This law makes it clear a requirement of social charity, requiring you to replace the state in what they are, or should be, their obligations. We understand that it is urgent to change the Civil Code in order to generate confidence in the owners to place their homes on the market, thus achieving the greatest increase in supply. There have been cases of delay, so we propose an increase of the penalty from 20 % to 50 %. It is necessary to clarify definitively that the type of rental of the building can only be agreed to by the license of use and not according to its skills. It is important to define, once and for all, that all contracts should be renewed by express indication and not by omission. You may not know in detail — and in many cases you do not know — all the omissions that the law allows. We therefore propose that the renewal period should preserve the spirit of renewal rather than innovation, i.e. for the same period. I shall finish, Madam President, by saying that you may at present denounce the contract in advance not less than five years. This is another restriction on the use of private property. It is time to put an end to this harassment of the owners, because they are citizens with the same rights and duties and, once again, reinforce that they do not have to replace the State in their obligations. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u250	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Castro of the Liberal Initiative has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u251	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is consensual that Portugal has one of the highest rates of effort for housing in the family budget, whether for rent or for purchase, as a result of the low income available in the family aggregates, combined with the increase in the price of own housing and the cost of rent. What is not consensual are the causes, nor certainly the solutions, and today we are talking about solutions, or rather distortions, because the initiatives of the PCP and the Left Block in relation to the housing market, as in other sectors, have never worked, on the contrary, distort. The rental market is growing increasingly and for various reasons, ranging from the increase in the purchase price of houses to cultural changes in the consumer profile, which favours mobility. This is a market with many interventions. We recall that in Lisbon, for example, according to the Lisbon Association of Owners, more than 60% of the owners of the capital have frozen incomes, which again distorts the market, doing, among other things, with which young people—yes, young people! — they pay much higher prices. We presented here a few days ago that in the last 10 years only 130 000 houses were built in Portugal. Over the preceding 10 years, 760 000 had been built, and these over 600 000 houses that have no longer been built in the last 10 years have pressed the price. That is why we need to act on the offer, but this also brings together the problem of the returned heritage, from the state's point of view, which is the first to demand and the last to meet—for years the yarn has been raised and thousands of real estate are about to return to society. Mrs. Members, on liberalism and housing, I would like to say the following: I know that the liberalism that lives at the head of the Members of the Left Block does not pay income, is busy and is distorted. [[Applause from the IL.]] And I also know that the Left Block likes to say that this is a liberalized market, but it is not, and in addition to the supply problems, it is a tax overbureaucratized, distorted, dysfunctional market. The solutions go through the long term, through a structural reform that allows for the increase of real wages, a short-term correction of supply, and the tax burden on the construction sector should be reduced and simplified, and other context costs. It is necessary to boost supply and attract long-term capital for investment in the lease market. Yes, investment is needed; yes, investors are needed; yes, owners are needed; yes, market is needed; yes, there has to be a basic protection of tenants' rights, but there must be, yes, respect for property rights. Let us not forget that Portugal has a tax burden on the housing sector which varies between 30 % and 40 %, a very high value and which brutally increases the price of houses, and the Liberal Initiative defends this correction, such as the flexibility and updating of legislation. But let us remember: a government addicted to taxes does not abdicate its vices to solve people's problems and the proposals presented here by the parties on the left over housing, once again, are no solutions, they are distortions. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[Meanwhile, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u252	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Maria Begonha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u253	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Housing lease is a matter that has deserved the commitment of the Socialist Party with consecutive legislative changes in a dual sense—on the one hand, correct the effects of the so-called 'Cristan law', of the right heritage, and, on the other hand, introduce profound changes that aim to strengthen the protection mechanisms of those who rent their homes. The PS has chosen a clear path of rebalancing forces between lease relations, but favouring the protection of tenants, in particular those who are in a situation of greater fragility, introducing stability and security in the urban lease regime. The breakdown with the policy of liberalizing incomes and the housing market and its tragic social consequences for the most protected, which we are still feeling, that we are still reverting, is precisely part of a structural reform of public intervention, of the State, to enshrine the right to housing. The crisis of access to housing, already mentioned here, which we live in this country is the result of investment and failure for decades, of delivering housing to the market, and it results in the difficult way that we are now going, at the initiative of the PS governments, to increase the public housing park, to increase the supply of affordable housing, which is the strongest and the largest structural antidote, regardless of the merit of other solutions to combat wild speculation and the incomportable prices of incomes, as well as to ensure access to the housing of all and all. This debate, as we see, is marked in the political and ideological field by a division between the concern of the right in strengthening the protection of the owners and a non-intervention of the state and the left, which proposes new changes, regardless of our disagreement, of the protection of the tenant. And it is fair to say this, since there is only one project, at this moment, in debate that actively proposes the retreat of the advances won in the protection of those who rent their homes, which is the project of the Arrival. It is even necessary to ask the Party whether they only make large declarations of protection for Portuguese workers and pay taxes, for example, the most fragile and families with the greatest economic difficulties, when they do not deal with the incomes of the landlords and owners whom you have chosen as the only concern in this debate. The gentlemen. Members present a project to make it easier to clear, more persecution the action on unpaid tenants and, in general, stigmatize those who cannot pay the income. It is clear, once again, who does not represent it, and the Liberal Initiative would not say better because, as we saw in a recent debate, secret cities and a policy of "who does not pay or cannot pay will go away" together the two sides. This division that takes place in this debate, however, must be added that it was only in 2019 that the most important legislative changes and the greatest advances in the protection of tenants were approved and implemented, but there was still no time to consolidate these progress. Stability in the rules and the Urban Rent Scheme is vital so that there is no increasing supply problem in the lease and therefore the PS, in this debate, also defends and represents a balance that does not forget those who complement their income as owners. What we do not even admit is the possibility of retreating in the protection of those who need the most and we are clearly on the side of the most fragile in the typical lease relationship. We cannot accept that someone living is subject to summary evictions, without contract or in a situation of risk of insecurity or persecution, which we know happens. That is why the lease injunction system, which has already been regulated, exists in order to put an end to situations of abuse; that is why we are proposing today the figure of the lease ban; that is why today the reduction of the late payment compensation from 50 % to 20 %, without forgetting that the lease contracts today have a minimum of three years, which has introduced greater stability and protection of the tenant. To conclude, Mr President, the motivations of several of the proposals for debate which we have seen alone include a number of concerns in which we have to deal with and which will have to be discussed in the future, but it is a broad regime which is intended to be stable and to which significant changes and changes were introduced only in 2019, of absolute need for the reversal of the troika's years, so we must allow the consolidation of progress before considering new measures. We must continue to strengthen the monitoring of the fulfilment of the legality of the lease and the fight against the informality of the housing market, which prevents many of the existing advances from having a real impact on the conditions of access to housing and people's concrete life. This is a great challenge and this is an essential matter for fulfilling the desire to exist housing with dignity and accessible to all and to all. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u254	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Marcia Passos has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u255	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing today a number of legislative initiatives which, despite having some positive signs, have once again put the issue of renting and increase confusion. The CFP, the Left Block and the NAP want, for example, that the clearance processes should be monitored by social security, in order to help the tenants to be resettled, when they alone do not have that capacity. This is, for example, a positive sign. But the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen are distracted, because this already exists. In the clearance process, there is already the possibility of notifying social security to monitor such situations. They're going to tell me, sir. Members, that the services do not work, that they do not have the ability to answer, because it is true, but it is not because they write a few more lines in a code, because they make a new law saying the same thing that they will become capable. They don't have the capacity, sirs. Members, because for the Government of the Socialist Party, investment in social workers and psychologists in social security, who work together with the courts, has never been a priority. On the other hand, in its bill, the PCP justifies the legislative initiative saying that one of the problems that marked the country's situation in early 2022 is the increasing difficulty of the population in access to housing. What measures does he propose? None at all. Says the PCP that the tenants are confronted—see! — with the non-renewal of contracts and also with an immediate increase in income for exorbitant and irreverent values and that this is real estate speculation. We don't understand, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. If there is no renewal, the contract ends, then there is no increase in income; if there is renewal, the income is the same and can only be updated based on the annual indices that are publicly known. That's why, sirs. Members, these are populist ideas and statements like these that, once and for all, need to disassemble, telling the Portuguese truth.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u256	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u257	The bill of the Left Block refers, for example, to an attempt to correct errors, but remains for the purposes, because concrete measures do not have any. The Left Block wants to impose contracts with minimum deadlines of five years and the CFP wants to impose contracts with minimum deadlines of 10 years, they want to make contracts compulsory with these deadlines. The Left Block proposes—see! — that the complaint by the landlord of a long-term lease only takes effect five years ago. But what a complaint, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? in a contract subject to a term, except for situations of need for the owner's housing, there is not even the description of the complaint, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. You gentlemen are completely distracted. [[PSD applause.]] In addition, Mrs. Members, the Left Block wants to create a contract recognition procedure when there is no written contract. It's about the law, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Why complicate and force the tenant to a new procedure?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u258	Come on, come on!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u259	There's the solution, you know how you should prove, just prove that you live there, just prove that you pay the income. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u260	It's in the clear!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u261	Mrs. Members, when they wish to rethink the Urban Rent Scheme in a serious, structured and unpartisan way, they are with us, but, when they want to do so, it will not only be the housing lease that will be the subject of changes. The non-residential contract arrangements also need to be re-considered in the protection of enterprises and their workers from SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises) who are often also renters. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u262	The arrival gave a signal in this direction, but it didn't do well. It did not do well because it is not enough to move within the terms of the lease, that is not how the Urban Rent Regime changes. When we do, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will not forget, for example, the scheme of works in leased buildings, which has so far forgotten who has been in a house for more than 30 years and, for example, is not yet 65 years old. The PSD, Mrs. Members, it is and will always be a humanist party and it will always be on the side of balanced solutions, and in these solutions all have to be involved and committed: tenants, landlords, businesses and their workers and the government. Finally, I want to say the following, Mr. Members : It is for the State and the Government to ensure the right to access to a decent home for all Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u263	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u264	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If housing is a right, then there are a number of duties with which we, in this House, must commit ourselves. The first is that it must be agreed that the principal purpose of the real estate must be, in the midst of the housing crisis, directed towards housing rather than speculation, and legislate accordingly. The second is that it is necessary to ensure that there is no discrimination in access to rent, when we know that it is precisely in access to rent that there are serious discrimination of gender, nationality or origin in racial and ethnic prejudice, and it is necessary to legislate accordingly. The third is that, in an inflation phase—it should be noted that in housing inflation is already behind—, it is necessary to prolong the duration of contracts in the future, as proposed by both the Left Block and the CFP projects in order to protect tenants. We must understand that, at a time of crisis in the housing, we must be more on the side of the tenants than on the side of the gentlemen, as the proposal of the Arrival, in fact, does not support the proposal of the Arrival. Except that this is not a question of « if », it is not « if» housing is a right because housing is a right, that is what the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic tells us, and if it is to be taken seriously, then what we must do is make proposals such as those brought here by the PCP, the Left Block and the PAN,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u265	What about the Free? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u266	... so that we can discuss them in the specialty and that we can be on the right side in the full crisis of housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u267	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u268	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Members of the Socialist Party and the right can turn around they want, but the incomes did not rise because there is too much regulation, the incomes did not rise because the tenants are too protected, the incomes did not rise because the IMT is high or the construction licenses are very expensive, and the incomes will not be lowered by labor and market grace or, then, only by the construction of a few hundred public housing. Everyone sees this evidence. It's an apology for those who don't want to put their finger on the wound, because putting their finger on the wound is disturbing the business. The problem is not the small owners, who, in fact, are worth as much for these parties as tenants, which is little or nothing. Small owners are the excuse of those who do not want to disturb the business, of those who do not want to get rid of speculation, of those who do not want to put an end to real estate interests or real estate investment funds. [[Protests from PS MP Maria Begonha.]] Throughout Europe, municipalities and governments are regulating housing, regulating local housing, regulating excess tourism, which calls into question housing in most European cities. In Portugal, the Socialist Party speaks in public park of housing, because it is the only thing that can say it does not meet the private interests of housing. This is all about protecting the bubble, protecting the housing business, which makes so much profit to the state, investment funds and the big interests that move in the real estate. That's why, sirs. Members of the Socialist Party, make your decisions on the housing market, because I am sure the IL will thank you for your positions. The housing doesn't seem to me to win anymore. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u269	To close the debate, Mr Bruno, from the CFP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u270	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the debate on housing and, of course, on renting, there is undeniable evidence that always appears in the face of political proposals and positions. It is clearer, it is better to see which side each political force is on, which side the governments are on, and which interests they defend. The conclusion which once again results from this debate is that, before the concrete and constructive proposals of the CFP to defend the right to housing, the same ones of the custom came to defend the interests of the custom. We know that the right does not forgive the Constitution and on 25 April for the consecration of the right to housing. We know that the right one applauds and rejoices at seeing families being expelled from their homes, from their neighborhoods, from their cities—it is the functioning market — or when they find rentals not of houses, not of rooms, but of belliches per hundred euros, with 10 or 12 people on a T1 or on a T2. Is it the invisible hand that sends people to the street, that puts families with small children brought to the back from one municipality to the other? No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the right-wing policy, it is the class option to defend the most powerful. The same PSD that has been in the government dismantling entire social security services, destroying thousands of jobs, now says that it is strange not to have social security to follow clearance processes. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what needs to be done is to put an end to this scourge of evictions, what needs to be done to ensure justice and to defend the dignity and life of people. They speak of the small owners to disguise, but this is the big business that is underlying the interests that you defend in these discussions. We know that real estate funds and big businesses are emptying entire neighborhoods of people who have lived there a whole life and now put housing not as a right — ever! — but as a millionaire business, it costs anything. They don't count on us for that policy, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen! It will also be important and particularly significant to see the PS, which in this discussion has been so much started and has made such a great effort to demarcate from the right, from now on, when we arrive at the votes and Mr President ask who votes in favour. So let's see what convergences are these that do. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u271	We turn to the sixth item on the agenda, which is part of the debate on draft resolution No 122 / XV / 1. a (Commission on European Affairs) — Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the transparency and direction of political propaganda. Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, from the PS, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u272	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are called on at this item to discuss a statement by the Assembly of the Republic on a proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on transparency and policy direction. This is a matter which falls within the legislative competence of the Assembly of the Republic, within the reserved competence of the Assembly of the Republic, the issue of prior opinion on the taking of a position in the bodies of the European Union by the Government becomes essential for the Assembly to exercise its competence and to give notice of its assessment of the matter. The proposal for a regulation aims to regulate the subject of political propaganda by establishing harmonised standards at the level of the European Union's space. Some of these are already regulated by the intervention of European instruments, in particular with regard to elections to the European Parliament, but what is intended is a broader scope for all forms of political propaganda, defining this concept for transversal effects to the European Union and also providing for, in particular, what is happening in the online context. in this framework too, in parallel, and recognizing the emergence of a specific market for these matters, the proposal for a regulation still arises with a specific concern which has with some of the mechanisms that arise that are used, which are frequently used in more recent times, and which may also raise doubts about the protection of fundamental rights. in this framework, it is therefore important to bear in mind whether this intervention is still under discussion as a proposal for a regulation compatible or not with the regulatory framework in which the European Union must intervene. In fact, the proposal raises some doubts and some perplexities, both as regards its content and also as regards the nature of the intervention which must take place at this headquarters. Without prejudice to other aspects, it would highlight some aspects of content which, at these stages of the procedure, are already relevant for legal analysis. Firstly, with regard to the very broad concept of political propaganda, which even appears in some unnecessarily diffused aspects, because it goes beyond the electoral and referendum political campaigns, potentially encompassing matters that cover campaigns aimed at influencing decision-making, which are much closer to the regulation of lobbying or the activity of representation of interests than on matters relating to political campaigns. The concept of intervening in these tables is also very excessive in its scope, confused at some of its borders in the face of other realities. If it is true that it covers matters such as political parties, coalitions, European political parties, it also includes the express reference to candidates, either candidates for political power bodies in the Member States or candidates for political parties bodies, which is not even regulated in all Member States and is not regulated under the Portuguese legal order. In addition, non-elected members of governments and organizations, with or without legal personality, which promote campaigns, are also included, welcoming an excessively comprehensive sense of informality, since it seems to open the door to any type of organization to the passage of a political message. On the other hand, other concepts used in the proposal for a regulation such as that of sponsoring or electoral period are likely to question any compatibility with the legal order of some Member States. Finally, the very concept of political propaganda editor is also generating misconceptions, because it overlaps itself with the concept of sponsor and even the concept of intervener. The scale of obligations arising from this draft regulation focuses mainly on transparency issues, but even the choices made in the field of transparency can significantly burden political communication, which, in many cases, is intended to be agile and in line with the tradition of each Member State, with each of the national traditions. In particular, in the context of our legal order, there are doubts as to how this matter would be linked with realities such as the right of antenna or even the prohibition—that in our legal order there is, in accordance with Law No 72 -A / 2015 — the use of commercial advertising for election campaign purposes. In other words, as regards the domestic legal order, one of the assumptions of this intervention, which is that of the existence of a market for communication and political propaganda, is precisely barring the existence of a ban on the use of some of these activities. It is also important to bear in mind that, in the analysis of this matter — not being this a process of scrutiny aimed solely or primarily at proportionality and subsidiarity — it is important to bear in mind that it is necessary to examine with caution whether what the Treaties provide for the intervention of the European Union in this field, in particular the regulation of specific markets, can be transformed into a regulation of internal political and constitutional electoral processes of the respective Member States. There is no question that there are major challenges in combating misinformation or that the European Union can develop ways to react to this misinformation and these risks. What is being questioned — and therefore - should be looked at cautiously, in this intervention - is whether, in order to enforce directly in the internal legal order of each Member State, a regulation on political campaigns, which not only campaigns for the European Parliament, is appropriate, proportionate and corresponds to the logic of subsidiarity, which must preside over these interventions. It seems that, through the regulation of still embryonic services and which are being properly discussed in the debate on digital markets and other interventions, we would potentially be changing the domestic legal and constitutional orders or, at least, sensitive electoral and political provisions which should still remain in the sphere of the Member States. It is not at stake — I reiterate: it is not at stake! — the need to consider these aspects or to question the cooperation that has been developed in these areas, even during the Portuguese Presidency. Yes, it is in question whether this instrument is the most appropriate instrument and whether at this time the proposed regulation is the most capable one. in this sense, it seems to us that the Assembly of the Republic must recommend an abstention to the Government in this area, which is the most sustainable way for the debate to continue. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u273	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD, Mr. Paulo Moniz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u274	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Europe is going to break borders and create an increasingly inclusive common market. The last two decades are examples of the importance of a European construction process based on safe and commonly legitimized steps. We are all part of the same family and this feeling of Community membership has, in fact, enhanced development patterns that if they want uniforms, obviously depending on the individual progression capacity of each Member State, but which, in theory, must converge consistently and sustainably. With the pandemic, Europe has been tested, for example, in the rapid and necessary joint health response and, of course, even for the most skeptical the question about the need for its union has fallen. Each citizen felt, with this example, protection and, most important, trust. The proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on transparency and the direction of political propaganda has, in our view, some nuances which must be meticulously discussed, on the grounds that we are in danger of opening precedents that may undermine the inalienable preservation of the constitutional principles of subsidiarity, proportionality and, in essence, of national sovereignty itself. Promoting democratic participation, codes of conduct, combating misinformation, protecting data and moving towards digitizing platforms are essential and necessary concepts and realities and their application in each Member State must always take into account the principles of proportionality and equity, and not just a matrix of equality for all, because we must deal differently with different realities. Is it very important? It is. Is it really essential? Yeah, more and more. Anyhow? No, no, no. Portugal is not France, it is not Belgium, it is not Italy and it is not Greece. And all this diversity is that it makes us all together, exactly what we are today. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In this context, there are legal issues that must be given full attention and that, in our view, as they are in the proposal, they should take away their definition and clear understanding. Although the concept of political propaganda does not have the same historical and empirical basis for all cultures, its diffuse definition may mislead the intention, making it necessary to clarify and clarify the purpose of the concept. in this case, not only refers to electoral campaigns as well as the influence on legislative, regulatory or even representation of interests, leaving in the air, even if not clearly, the corridor to the lobby or even the lack of determination and strict definition of rules or concepts of campaign in electoral periods, establishing the principle of total freedom of campaign and communication, cross-border to all Member States. It is also unclear and excessively comprehensive the concepts of intervener, elected officials, their legal personalities, or how the proper formal articulation of the provision and supervision of accounts common to each State, as well as the very concept of sponsor, which appears to be with an undesirable degree of inaccuracy. The principles and rules of communication and of the press themselves are almost random, without objective rules and which guarantee impartiality and proportionality by the principle of the right to vote. The digitization of these and other materials is a long path, which cannot fail to be carried out with special care in the protection and preservation of the personal data of each citizen, being defined and implemented—as I have already had the opportunity to propose on other occasions—a cyber-Schengen space, for the processing and protection of these data, and even for the fight against misinformation and fake news, throughout the European Union. For all this, we believe that, for this matter, there must be more space and debate in the consolidation of the internal democracy of the whole Union, so that it itself does not counter the political systems of each State and overlaps with the constitutional or political law of each country. Deepenings of this nature must have clear intentions and not vague concepts. They must not be done in any way, in a confusing way, without all of us knowing exactly what each concept means, its direction, its implementation and, most importantly, its consequences. Thus, even if the report recognises a good basis for work, the PSD Parliamentary Group will not be able to follow this draft resolution, which proposes that Portugal refrain from doing so. When there may be some kind of violation of the principles of subsidiarity or proportionality for our country, we do not agree that the most appropriate path is abstention or lack of pronunciation, but rather that of clearly showing our counterpoint for not agreeing with this solution. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u275	Mr Diogo Pacheco de Amorim, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the United States of America, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u276	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposal under discussion, by the European Parliament and the Council, says that it seeks to harmonise the rules at European Union level, trying to ensure high transparency with regard to political propaganda and related services, while also trying to promote greater legal certainty, particularly with regard to service providers. However — as the Committee on European Affairs stresses — are used in this proposal not always clear, unclear and often misleading concepts, which may call into question the above objectives.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u277	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u278	On the other hand, the obligations associated with the notice of transparency do not only increase the costs associated with the intended communication as they may also challenge the communication capacity of small or medium-sized parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u279	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u280	The information requirements to be provided are, for us, clearly unrealistic and even violators of a certain reserve of confidentiality, fundamental to any political or electoral campaign.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u281	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u282	Finally — but no less important and even fundamental — conflict with the Portuguese legal order as regards, for example, the fact that there is no clear difference between political propaganda and the exercise of fundamental freedoms of expression, leads us to vote in favour of the draft resolution in question, which recommends that the Government abstain in the various Council configurations where any decision is made on this matter. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u283	Mr Bernardo Branco, of the Liberal Initiative, now has the floor for an intervention. I'm asking the ladies. Members who create the conditions for the speaker to be heard. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u284	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by congratulating the Committee on European Affairs and their services on the person of Mr Capoulas Santos, on the fact that it has been possible to resolve this process in such a short time, but I would also like to say that we cannot, of course, operate so quickly. I also thank Mr Miguel Iglesias and Mr Paulo Moniz, who has arranged a legal mechanism for us to welcome the opinion of 1. The Commission, obviously very well done, also congratulates you, Mr President, on saying that we obviously share concerns about the principle of subsidiarity. As far as the content of the proposal for a regulation is concerned, we obviously have a serious objection which will cause us to vote against. It immediately begins with the very definition of the concept of political propaganda, which, in many cases, may call into question the right to freedom of expression and other rights within the scope of the digital media. So, while we understand some of the concerns of the regulation, we will vote against this draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u285	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u286	For an intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u287	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The defence and guarantee of national sovereignty, enshrined as a fundamental task of the State, in the Constitution of the Republic, also consists in defending the independence of the State and its capacity for autonomous decision-making in the field of political and electoral activities. The integrity of the State is also a fundamental task provided for in Article 9. the Constitution, in which it is spoken of as « ensuring national independence and creating the political, economic, social and cultural conditions that promote it; ensuring fundamental rights and freedoms and respect for the principles of the democratic rule of law; defending political democracy; ensuring and encouraging the democratic participation of citizens in solving national problems ». Not voting on the proposal for a European Parliament regulation, but on a draft resolution for the Government to take a decision on it, it is not possible to make this discussion without addressing the fundamental one, which should lead to a government position, i.e. without addressing the proposal for a regulation. This proposal: it deals with exclusive competences of the Portuguese State in the field of national sovereignty; it raises serious doubts about compliance with the principle of subsidiarity, since the European Union can only legislate to achieve results that could not be achieved at local level, but without withdrawing competences from States and without violating the sovereignty of the Member States, their fundamental tasks and the standards contained in their Constitutions; it raises serious doubts about compliance with the principle of proportionality, since European Union legislation should not go beyond what is necessary to achieve the objectives of the treaties, in violation of the Constitution of the Republic. The differences in the field of political propaganda in the Member States — what the proposal for a regulation calls 'participation' — result from natural and understandable differences in the respective political and electoral systems, which is an area that affects the scope of State sovereignty and which must, of course, be respected. In Portugal, propaganda issues are thus framed by the Constitution, which determines freedom of propaganda as one of the general principles of electoral law. To admit that these specificities can be deleted in the name of the freedom to provide advertising services and, by elucidative and significant extension, political propaganda does not just mean changing the concept that must have the principle of subsidiarity — and it would no longer be too little! — it also means making the existing or potential business prevail, and everything that is inherent to it about the organization and operation of processes affecting the core of democracy and sovereignty of each State. The proposal for a regulation is condemned not only by undermining constitutional principles, but also by having underlying principles and concepts of politics, electoral acts, the function of political propaganda which tends to approach it or even resemble it to mere business, which we reject. in this sense, we believe that the Government should take action against this proposal and, having voted in favour of the opinions, both in 1. The Commission as well as the CEE (Commission on European Affairs) — which also raises a number of doubts and reservations about this same proposal — will vote against this draft resolution because we do not follow the statement it makes on the Government's position on this matter. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u288	To speak on behalf of the Left Block, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u289	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing this diploma in 25. the time of a plenary session and perhaps even because it was discussed and presented very quickly—either the opinions, or the draft resolution—, many Members and Members may not pay attention. Certainly, the country is not paying attention to what is going on. But, as Mr President mentioned at the Conference of Leaders, this is the first of a set of steps on a path that we should, from the outset, reject. The part of'rejecting', Mr President did not say so, I am now adding, but he noted the set of thoughts that are linked to this diploma. Question: What is the matter? It begins by limiting the action of party propaganda and thus limiting the freedom to disseminate political opinion, i.e. the positions of political parties. The following will come the submission of the transnational lists or the delivery of what is currently the sovereign decision-making space of the countries over their electors in the European Parliament, in the European bodies, to supranational lists. Not only do we have European parties, we have the possibility of listings without the presence of people from all the countries represented in the European Parliament. So, on the one hand, it is a bureaucracy and, on the other hand, in our view, it is a 'democratisation' of the whole European process. Now, if we were already critical of what happened earlier, if we thought that a considerable part of this European Union was done behind the back and against the views of the people, then even worse now. So I don't understand! I must tell you that this draft resolution has even caught us unawares because the debate in the Committee on European Affairs and the debate in 1. the Commission would lead to a widespread rejection of this choice by all political parties with seats in Parliament. That is to say, they would lead to the rise of the Assembly of the Republic and — since this is an opinion that the Government has to take on the basis of the opinion of the Assembly of the Republic, which is the guardian of the legal order on this matter, according to the Constitution — decided that the Government should decide, not by abstention, but by opposition to this initiative, attempting to kill from the outset a path that is contrary to the sovereign interests of our country and our people. However, that is not what the draft resolution brings. It is strange how it can have unanimity—at least as a result of the debates held in the committees—on this matter, which was important, even in order to make known in the European area the position of the Assembly of the Republic and the position of the Portuguese Government, praised in that unanimity, the draft resolution which appears to be by abstention. It's incomprehensible! On this matter, I admit that we may be against or in favour, but I abstain - it makes no sense at all. None! Or we are in favour of a submission to a supranational European dictatorship — it is not even federal, Mr Rui Tavares, it is supranational, whatever it may mean in terms of European directories — or we are against. I am abstaining, in the midst of this, I believe that it is absolutely incomprehensible. So on this draft resolution, strangely, we will vote against it, because it is for abstention, when all the debates made it assumed that the position would be, like ours, that the Portuguese Parliament and Government would take action against this initiative and take an open, clear and unequivocal position. Now, instead of unanimity, we're going to have the PS to be alone. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u290	Before I give the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real for an intervention, I would ask the services which activate the quorum verification register. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u291	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I should like to begin by greeting the rapporteur first of all. In spite of the technicality which it implies, as has already been mentioned, it is to be found in an almost non-position, or a withdrawal of position, of our House in relation to this matter, which is of the greatest relevance. Tow concerns about transparency, there is indeed an open door to the issue of regulation in matters of our sovereignty, in particular one of the principles and pillars of our democracy, which has to do with freedom of expression, but not only. It also has to do with political freedom, organization and propaganda. In our view, these diffuse concepts, as the report well points out, end up in some way by flouting that same principle. There is indeed the beginning of a whole European process which does not concern the European electoral process itself, but the internal electoral process of the States. In our view, it should be a longer process over time, since it moves with the principles of each Member State, and it is quite worrying to see how it is being conducted. in this measure, Portugal should have a firmer position in safeguarding the freedom of political propaganda, which is one of the basic principles that emanates from our Constitution and which we can enshrine with 25 April. This seems to us to be a possibility of backwardness in the internal campaigns of the different Member States, but also in the European electoral process itself, which, in our view, should have an opacity from the point of view of money and operation. This is not the case and therefore the NAP will have no choice but to abstain from the vote on this report.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u292	Mr Rui Tavares of the Free House has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u293	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft resolution to the vote proposes that Portugal abstain from voting at the European Council on this regulation on political propaganda in Europe. Because of the debate in this Chamber, it seems that we will also refrain from participating in this process with the depth and reliability that were necessary. I think we're going to speed it up with some bricks, saying that there's a subsidiarity problem, that's very technical and that we can't discuss it. But what is under discussion is very simple. We are in a European Union, some like more, others like less, but we all want it to be at least a club of democracies. There are those who fight for more — the Free struggle for a European democracy that is more than the sum of 27 national democracies — but what I think is that the European Union can be a club of democracies and dictatorships. For that we already have the United Nations. Now there is already a risk in the European Union — and reality! — increasing elections which are fraudulent. That is to say, elections that the European parameters themselves—which we have long ago, we have not invented yesterday—or the OSCE ( Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe) tell us that they are free but not fair elections, because political propaganda is headed, bought to external actors and basically allows co-opt whole political societies and systems. So if we believe that this is only relevant to the elections of the European Parliament, I ask: what do you think of the day when external actors start to buy votes in the European Council and, alongside a democratically elected head of state or government, are two or three, fraudulently elected, to lead proposals for directives and regulations or foreign policy resolutions that we wish to adopt? at that time, will no one remember the violation of sovereignty or the limitation of sovereignty? No, because we have decided to abstain from all this debate, as it is unfortunately customary.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u294	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS has the floor for a speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u295	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It seems useful and particularly important to us that this debate can be held in this context, but it is important not to lose sight that, if this proposal for a regulation takes the steps that follow, the Assembly of the Republic will also have an opportunity to take a decision on the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality when the matter is put back on the circuit. In other words, this will not be our last word on the matter. That is why the possible consensus, which has raised the objections and reservations to this resolution, does not mean the last word of the Assembly of the Republic, especially with regard to the control of the substance, the violation, or not, of the principle of subsidiarity, and therefore there is an advantage that this message can already be transmitted, even as a vote of abstention. I just wanted to leave an extra note, very telegraphically...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u296	Thank you for that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u297	It is a technical matter, Mr Rui Tavares, but we can discuss it. If we want the European Union to be a club of democracies, surely it will be a club of democracies based on the rules of the Treaties, which distributes those who do what they do within the framework of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u298	So you give the news to the man? He can give you something!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u299	Constitutional law, electoral law, political propaganda of strictly internal elections are the competences of the Member States within the framework of their Constitutions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u300	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this item on our agenda is thus closed. Let's move on to the votes. I ask the services to advertise the result of the quorum verification. [[Pause.]] We have a quorum and, having no registration difficulties, we are in a position to start the voting period. We begin by voting on an application submitted by the PS, requesting the waiver of the deadline for filing claims against inaccuracies in respect of Bill No 4 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), approving the State budget for 2022. [[The vote was taken by votes to PS, PS, CH, IL, PAN and L and with abstentions from the CFP and BE.]] We moved on to the Vote Project No 98 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by the PAR and subscribed by the PS, the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN, and the L ) — regretting the death of Paula Rego, which will be read by the Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u301	Mr. President and Mr. Member, the draft vote shall be as follows: « He died last June 8 in London, 87 years old, Paula Rego, a major figure of contemporary painting and one of the most recognized and award-winning Portuguese artists. Maria Paula Figueiroa Rego was born in Lisbon on January 26, 1935, having shown since very young appetition for drawing, which led her to study in London, in the United Kingdom, a country that welcomed her and where she would live much of her life. In the British capital, he studied at Slade School of Fine Art, University College. His work, which evolved from a more abstract initial style to figurative painting — an area in which he grew up as an international exponent — crossed several influences, including literature, cinema and theatre, highlighting his paintings and engravings inspired by Portuguese and English folk tales and history books. His work indeliblely reflects a commitment to feminism and the fight against oppression, inequality and injustice that seriously affects women, and can several frames of their being seen as authentic manifests against prejudice, domination and indifference. On the subjects of his work, Paula Rego once summed them up to a journalist like this: « Send in people. Obedience. Subversion. Do good to bad people, hurt good people. Power. Gender inequality. Men send women in general. Women sometimes send, but it's otherwise. The relationship between the sexes. That's it. You don't have to. Do not keep on seeking. ” The subjects he was dealing with were eminently political, in the broadest and most noble sense of the subject, questioning us all, sometimes in a raw way, having been able to explore our dreams, our fears, our stories, our condition. In Portugal, the artist was the subject of multiple awards and distinctions, such as the Great Cross of the Military Order of Sant 'Iago da Espada, in 2004, the Grand Amadeo Prize of Souza-Cardoso, in 2013, or the Medal of Cultural Merit, awarded in 2019 by the Government. In 2009 the Casa das Histórias was inaugurated in Cascais, a museum that received part of its work. In 2005 Paula Rego was chosen by the former President of the Republic Jorge Sampaio to make his official portrait, the first woman to appear in the gallery of official painters of the Presidency of the Republic. Outside borders, where he exhibited alongside the most renowned artists in the world, he was distinguished, for example, in 1989 with the Turner Prize, and in 2010 with the Order of the British Empire with the degree of Officer, by Queen Isabel II, for his contribution to the arts. Paula Rego was a unique painter whose voice will be very lacking. The national mourning decreed by the government points out the importance of the artist and his work, reflecting the dimension of this loss. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of painter Paula Rego, recalling the unique figure of contemporary art and addressing to his family and friends the most sorry condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u302	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I greet the family of Paula Rego, as well as the person responsible for the House of Stories Paula Rego present in the galleries. I invite everyone to join me for one minute of silence in honor of Paula Rego. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] The assessment of the Vote Project No 90 / XV / 1 is followed. a ( submitted by the Committee on European Affairs and subscribed by a PS Member and a PSD Member ) — Greetings for the celebration of Europe's Day, which has been distributed by all parliamentary groups. Mr Luís Capoulas Santos, Chairman of the Committee on European Affairs, has the floor to make a brief summary.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u303	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Last May 9th, we celebrated the Day of Europe. on that date, we celebrated the day when, in 1950, Robert Schuman, then French Foreign Minister, made the famous statement in Quai d'Orsay, which is considered the foundation of what is now the European Union, inspired by the original idea of Jean Monnet, which would be the first President of the ECSC (European Coal and Steel Community). The Committee on European Affairs did not wish to make this matter clear and consensual to the draft vote which is yours and which will be the subject of a vote today. In this way, it is intended to signal the importance that the European Union assumes in the current context of war in Europe and the closure of the Conference on the Future of Europe, which took place on 9 May, the date on which its conclusions were taken to the European institutions, translated into 49 proposals and 326 measures which have had a high participation of the citizens, and in which we will all certainly be committed to the times to come. The text which has been submitted to this plenary and which, by its extension, has abstained from reading, so, in addition to evoking the past, aims to give a strong signal from Portugal in the future of a Europe that we want more and more united, more coherent and strengthened.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u304	We shall proceed to the vote of the deliberative part of the draft vote No 90 / XV / 1. a [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CH, the IL, the PAN and the L, the votes against the CFP and the abstention from BE.]] The Resolution Project No. 90 / XV / 1 is followed. a ( submitted by PAR ) — Move of the President of the Republic to New York. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will now vote, in general, on Bill No. 73 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Ensures the inclusion of all schedules in the internal mobility procedure of the internal competition of teachers. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the CH.]] The general vote of Bill No 106 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (CH) — Assign cost aid to primary and secondary teachers who are displaced. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, votes against the CH and BE and abstentions against the IL, the CFP, the NAP and the L.]] The vote on draft resolution No 80 / XV / 1. a (BE) — By reviewing the recruitment and mobility scheme of basic and secondary teaching staff. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CFP, BE, PAN and L and abstentions from the PS, CH and IL.]] The vote on draft resolution No 69 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Immediate suspension of works on the metro line of Lisbon. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of CH, IL, PCP, BE and PAN and abstentions from the PSD and L.]] The vote on draft resolution No 52 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government comply with Article 282. the State Budget Act 2020 and suspends the construction process of the circular line of the metro of Lisbon. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of CH, IL, PCP, BE and PAN and abstentions from the PSD and L.]] The vote on draft resolution No 84 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government revise the draft circular line of the Lisbon metro rejected by Parliament and the evolution to the link line. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the CCP, the BE and the NAP and the L abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u305	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u306	Mr President, do you ask for the floor to what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u307	Mr President, it is to announce that the PSD Members elected by Lisbon and other Members of the same parliamentary group will present a statement of vote on these three votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u308	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will now vote for the Resolution Project No 55 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government reactivate the Decentralisation Monitoring Commission. [[The vote was taken by votes to PS, PS, CH, IL, PAN and L and with abstentions from the CFP and BE.]] The general vote of Bill No. 4 / XV / 1 is followed. a ( BE ) — Eliminates visasgolds ( eighth amendment to the legal regime for entry, stay, departure and removal of aliens from national territory ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L.]] The general vote of Bill No 109 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PCP ) — Repeals the arrangements for the award of golden visas — permit of residence for investment activity ( the ninth amendment to Law No 23 / 2007 of 4 July defining the conditions for entry, stay, exit and departure from national territory ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L.]] The general vote of Bill No 113 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PAN) — Revokes the residence authorisation programme for investment activity by amending Law No 23 / 2007 of 4 July 2007. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L.]] The general vote of Bill No 114 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PAN) — Requires the Government to prepare and deliver to the Assembly of the Republic a report assessing the impact of the visasgold programme for the period 2012 and 2021. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of CH, IL, PCP, BE, PAN and L and abstention from the PSD.]] The general vote of Bill No 130 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( CH ) — Alter the legal regime of the issue of residence permit for investment ( visasgold ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L were rejected, votes against the CH and abstentions against the PSD and the IL.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 78 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent regulation of Decree-Law No 14 / 2021 of 12 February in order to enable the operationalization of the online platform and the submission of online requests for gold visas for real estate purposes in the Autonomous Regions of Madeira and the Azores and in the interior. [[The vote was taken by votes to the PSD, CH and IL, votes against the CFP, BE and L, and abstentions to the PS and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u309	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u310	Is it for what purpose, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u311	Mr President, it is to announce that we will present a declaration of vote in the context of the vote on this draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u312	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. The general vote of Bill No 68 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( CH) — Alter the Law on the Financing of Political Parties and Election Campaigns, eliminating several exemptions from which political parties benefit. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PSD, PCP and L and votes against the CH, IL, BE and PAN.]] The general vote of Bill No 42 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PSD ) — Eighth amendment to Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June ( Law on the Financing of Political Parties and Electoral Campaigns ) and third amendment to Organic Law No 2 / 2005 of 10 January ( Law on the Organization and Operation of the Entity of Political Accounts and Financing ). [[The vote was taken by votes to the PSD, CH and L, votes against the IL and abstentions to the PS, the CFP, the BE and the NAP.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 102 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Eliminates the tax benefits of political parties and reduces the value of public subsidies ( eighth amendment to the Political Party Financing Act, Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, PCP and L were rejected, votes against the CH, IL and BE and abstention from the NAP.]] The general vote of Bill No 110 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PCP ) — Reduces public funding to political parties and electoral campaigns ( eighth amendment to Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, BE and L were rejected, votes against the CH, IL and the PCP and abstention from the NAP.]] We now vote in general on Bill No 116 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Revoks tax benefits allocated to political parties and decreases the limits of election campaign spending, amends the Law on the Financing of Political Parties and Electoral Campaigns. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS, the PSD and the PCP and votes against the CH, the IL, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] Mrs. Members, we will generally vote on Bill No 117 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Increases the transparency of the accounts of the parties and budgets of the election campaigns and ensures that the Entity for Political Accounts and Financing has a stable organic structure, amending the Law on the Financing of Political Parties and Election Campaigns and the Law on the Organization and Operation of the Entity for Political Accounts and Financing. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of CH, BE, PAN and L, votes against the CFP and abstentions from PS, PSD and IL.]] The initiative goes down to 1. the Commission. We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 123 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Introducing measures for fiscal justice, equal treatment and transparency in the financing of political parties and electoral campaigns ( eighth amendment to Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June ). [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS, the PSD and the PCP and votes against the CH, the IL, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] The general vote on Bill No. 25 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Amendment to the Urban Rent Scheme. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE and L and abstention from the NAP.]] We now vote in general on Bill No 118 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Recognition of lease contracts ( eighth amendment to the New Urban Rent Scheme ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE, NAP and L and the abstention from the CH.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 119 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Stability in lease contracts ( seventy-eighth amendment to the Civil Code ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE and L and abstention from the NAP.]] We then vote in general on Law No 128 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Amends the Urban Rent Scheme and provides for non-discrimination in access to housing. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE, NAP and L and the abstention from the CH.]] Mrs. Members, we shall generally vote on Bill No 131 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Amends the Urban Rent Scheme. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, PCP, BE, PAN and L were rejected, votes against the CH and abstention from the IL.]] We now vote on Resolution Project No 122 / XV / 1. a (Commission on European Affairs) — Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the transparency and direction of political propaganda. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against the PSD, CH, IL, CCP, BE and L and abstention from the NAP.]] I see Mr. Eurico Brilliant Days asking for the floor. Is it to make a statement of vote, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u313	Nor, Mr President, on behalf of the bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u314	Same for Mr Rui Tavares?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u315	Exactly, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u316	Mrs. Members follow the vote on an application submitted by the NAP, requesting the extension of the deadline for a further 60 days to the Committee on Budgets and Finance, without a vote, of Bill No 44 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Amends the Budget Framework Act to the provisions of the Climate Bases Act. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We voted for Resolution Project No 42 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Establishment of a working group on dumping on the Portuguese coast. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the IL.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, an application was submitted by the Arrival requesting the vote on points of draft resolution No 61 / XV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends the removal of obsolete hydraulic infrastructure. With no objection, we shall now vote on point 1. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CH, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the PS abstention.]] We voted for point 2 of the same motion for a resolution. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CH, the BE, the PAN and the L and the PS, the IL and the CFP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 3. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the CH were rejected in favour of BE, PAN and L and abstentions from PS, PSD, IL and PCP.]] The vote on point 4 is followed, on the same motion for a resolution. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CH, the BE, the PAN and the L and the PS, the IL and the CFP.]] Mrs. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on point 5 of the draft resolution. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD, the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and with abstentions from the PS and the IL.]] Then we vote on draft resolution No 11 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government take fiscal measures to strengthen and encourage solidarity with Ukraine, its people and refugees and displaced persons resulting from the humanitarian crisis caused by the Russian invasion of Ukraine. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, CH, IL, BE, PAN and L and the abstention from the CFP.]] We move on to the Resolution Project No. 50 / XV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends to the Government measures to reduce rejections and food waste of fish by restricting trawling, eliminating perverse subsidies and valuing fish, whose point-by-point vote was requested by the proposer. So, and since there was no objection, we shall immediately proceed to the vote on point 1. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PAN and L, and abstention from the CFP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 2 of the same motion for a resolution. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PAN and L, and abstention from the CFP.]] Let us now vote on point 3. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and CH were rejected, votes against BE, PAN and L and abstentions against IL and the CFP.]] The vote on point 4 shall follow. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and CH were rejected, votes against BE, PAN and L and abstentions against IL and the CFP.]] We will vote point 5 of the Resolution Project No 50 / XV / 1. a ( BE). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CH, the CFP, the BE and the L and the NAP abstention.]] We now vote on point 6 of the same project. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CH, the CFP, the BE and the L and the NAP abstention.]] Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on point 7. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and IL, votes in favour of the CH, the PCP, the BE and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, we are now voting on draft resolution No 63 / XV / 1. a ( L). There is a request, submitted by the PS... [[Pause.]] Tell me the Bureau that, after all, the request is from the Free, therefore Caesar what is from Caesar and, in this case, Rui what is from Rui.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u317	Mr President, I am sorry, the request for a point of vote is from the PS, but the draft resolution is indeed from the Free.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u318	I can solve this with a Latin phrase: de de minimis not curate director. Therefore, having no objection to the request, whatever its origin, we shall vote for it, as intended. This is the Resolution Project No 63 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Recommends that the Government take initiatives towards the formation of a European Institute with the status of Associate Laboratory or State, and we shall begin by voting on point 1. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PAN and the L, votes against the CH and the PCP and abstentions from the PSD, IL and BE.]] We then voted point 2 of the same motion for a resolution. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CH and the PCP were rejected, votes against the PAN and the L and abstentions against the PSD, IL and BE.]] We proceeded to the vote on the request, submitted by the Livre, requesting the postponement, by 22 June, of the vote on draft resolution No 89 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Recommends the appropriate follow-up to Ukraine's application for accession to the European Union ( EU ), favouring the allocation of the formal EU candidate status to that country. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the PAN and the L and the AE abstention.]] The next item is the thanks due to the parliamentary groups for their disciplined participation in these votes and, before the announcement of the next sitting's agenda, the reading of the dossier. Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u319	Mr President, it is to inform, for the proper purposes, that I have not been able to register.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u320	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. I now ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to inform the House of Ladies. Members who attended the session by videoconferencing. [[Pause.]] Mr. Rodrigo Saraiva asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u321	Mr President, I think we need to vote for two opinions from the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u322	You are absolutely right, and I thank you, Mr President. I ask Secretary Maria of Rosinha Light to read the first opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u323	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca do Porto, Juiz do Trabalo do Porto — Juiz 3, Case No 12088 / 21.6T8PRT, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Eurico Brilhante Dias ( PS ) to intervene within the framework of those cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u324	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I now ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read the second opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u325	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Braga, Local Court of Braga — Judge 4, Case No 2460 / 20.4T8BRG, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Hugo Pires ( PS ) to intervene within the framework of those cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u326	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Now, yes, I would ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read our file and report to the Members who were attending the plenary session by video conference.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u327	Mr. President and Mr. Members, you have entered the Bureau, and you have been admitted by Mr President, Bill No 146 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission. I also inform the House that Mrs Paula Santos of the PCP and Mr Miguel Matos of the PS attended this plenary session by video conference, because they were in prophylactic isolation. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-17.u328	Mrs. Members, the next plenary meeting will take place on Wednesday, 22 June, for the next 15 hours, with the following agenda: the first item is the debate with the Prime Minister on general policy; in the second point we will have the preparatory debate of the European Council, with the participation of the Prime Minister under Article 4 ( a ). that of the Law of Monitoring, Appreciation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Union Construction Process ; and, in the third and final point, we will have a standing vote. Thank you very much and good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 14 hours and 18 minutes.]]
