ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We are in a position to begin our work, and I therefore declare the sitting open. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the galleries to the public. I'm informing all of you and all of you. Members who are part of the 60 parliamentary friendship groups set up by the Assembly of the Republic which are for signature in the Hall of Nobre, the documents relating to these parliamentary friendship groups. I would ask everyone during this plenary session to travel to the Hall to sign the documents of the parliamentary groups of friendship that they will join, because this is the instrument of formalizing the taking of possession as members of the parliamentary groups of friendship. In particular, I ask the Socialist Party and the Social Democratic Party, which, given its size, are the groups with more Members involved in the parliamentary groups of friendship. I now give the floor to Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to proceed with the reading of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President, and very late to all. I shall announce that they have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted by Mr President, several initiatives: the Resolution Projects Nos 302 / XV / 1. a ( PS, PSD, IL and PAN ), which falls to 2. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission, and 303 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 2. the Commission ; the Proposals for Law No 48 / XV / 1. a ( ALRAM ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission, 49 / XV / 1. a ( ALRAM ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 50 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 51 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), which falls to 12. the Commission, and 52 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), which falls to 12. the Commission ; Bills Nos 367 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 1. the Commission, and 375 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission ; and the Parliamentary Inquiry No 5 / XV / 1. a ( CH). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u3	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. Our next item is the assessment of various petitions and of the draft laws and resolutions accompanying them. The first point concerns the assessment of Petition No 168 / XIV / 2. a ( Pedro Claudio Caldeirinha Rupio and others) — Portuguese for everyone! By the right of our children and young people to a teaching of Portuguese abroad of quality and free, together with, in general, the Bill No. 152 / XV / 1. a (BE) — Elimination of the tip for teaching Portuguese abroad and guarantee free of charge of school textbooks adopted, 154 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Free teaching abroad ( third amendment to Decree-Law No 165 / 2006 of 11 August ), 184 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Alter the Decree-Law No 165 / 2006 of 11 August to promote a quality and free teaching of Portuguese abroad for Portuguese children and young people and Luso-descendants and 205 / XV / 1. a (NAP) — Determines the end of the collection of propina/registration rate to Portuguese and Luso-descendant young people who attend or attend the teaching of Portuguese abroad, for the purpose of amending Decree-Law No 165 / 2006 of 11 August and with Resolution Projects No 104 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — For the right of Portuguese children and young people and Lusodescendants to a teaching of Portuguese quality and free of charge abroad, 142 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends that the Government defend the teaching of Portuguese as a mother tongue abroad, 143 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government guarantee the right of access to teaching in Portuguese abroad to Portuguese and Luso-descendants residing abroad, 289 / XV / 1. a (IL) — By defending the teaching of Portuguese as a mother tongue for Portuguese and Lusodescendants outside Portugal and 290 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the teaching of Portuguese abroad in its different dimensions and intensify the use of digital technologies to make it more attractive, interactive and tailored to the profile of students. To intervene, Mr José Moura Soeiro, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I want to begin by greeting the thousands of petitioners who urge Parliament to take steps to ensure that Portuguese teaching abroad is of quality and free of charge. That language is a fundamental element of social and cultural linkage with Portugal for Portuguese abroad and for Luso-descendants I believe there will be no doubt. However, the last decade saw a disinvestment in the teaching of Portuguese with Portuguese children and young Portuguese and Luso-descendants living abroad, both with the priority given to the teaching of Portuguese as a foreign language for another public that is different from the public of Portuguese as a mother tongue, with the introduction of successive barriers to access to teaching of Portuguese as a mother tongue. Since 2013, the tip for teaching Portuguese and the cost of school textbooks have been added to the symbolic disincentives and economic barriers that already exist for language learning, which hinder and hinder access to Portuguese teaching and introduce even discriminations regarding integrated teaching. There have also been many statements of concern in this Parliament and even some announcements by the Socialist Party, the Government, that a solution would be found. Today, the solution is within the reach of the vote by the honourable Members. and the Members. This week, we can vote and therefore approve, among other projects, the bill of the Block of Left, which aims to eliminate the tips for teaching Portuguese abroad and ensure the freeness of the manuals. It will certainly be a good contribution to our communities so often invoked here, including by the President of the Assembly of the Republic, but soon disregarded in the small decisions that may make a difference, like this one, in which we will speak today and on Friday we will vote. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u5	To speak on behalf of the PCP, you have the floor of Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We would like to begin this speech by greeting the subscribers of this petition for bringing a fair claim to the Assembly of the Republic, which is the investment in teaching in Portuguese abroad as a mother tongue, for Portuguese children and young people abroad and for the Luso-descendants. This is a matter of greatest importance. This petition also refers to the need for the elimination of the tip and the strengthening of the teaching of Portuguese abroad. When we talk about the Portuguese language and the right to education, we believe that it is the responsibility of the government to ensure that our communities, children and young people, are able to have access to the teaching of Portuguese as a mother tongue and not as a foreign language. It is not at stake to develop and create the conditions for others to learn Portuguese as well, but it is of the highest responsibility of the Government to ensure that Portuguese children and young people and Lusodescendants teach Portuguese as their mother tongue.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u8	So we bring the discussion a bill that has two objectives. The first is to revoke the tip, which was in fact an obstacle to many and many families in access to Portuguese teaching abroad. In fact, just look at the number of students attending Portuguese teaching abroad to realize this: in 2008 there were more than 60 000 and today they do not reach 40,000. There is therefore a reduction in the number of students and the tip, which was created by the PSD/CDS government, but maintained by the Socialist Party over all these years, clearly means an obstacle to access to Portuguese teaching abroad.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u10	The second objective is the freeness of school textbooks. The guarantee of the right to education and equality between students is to create conditions for this right to be guaranteed for all. We therefore propose that there be free school textbooks for all children and young people. Today, we have this possibility in the context of the discussion we are making, but also the vote by the other political forces on the measures put forward. If the Portuguese language is as important, as we consider that it is, if the right to education is constitutional and it is for everyone, the adoption of the proposal of the CFP gives answers to these two principles of our Constitution. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u11	To speak on behalf of the Arrival, Mr. Diogo Pacheco de Amorim has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We tend to devalue common places, but we do wrong, because behind a common place is always a first and essential truth.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u14	"My homeland is the Portuguese language" is a statement by Fernando Pessoa that has become one of these common places. But in this statement, as in fact, as Fernando Pessoa said, there is one of the first truths I have mentioned, because it is in the shared language that resides one of the main factors of union of a people and a nation that is scattered around the world.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u15	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u16	thus the attention that the arrival has always given to teaching the Portuguese language to these Portuguese. the host countries are responsible for teaching their language in their schools. But it is the country of origin, in this case Portugal, which is responsible for teaching the Portuguese language as a mother tongue, as a factor of integration into the great community that is the Portuguese Nation. It is clear that the formal teaching of the Portuguese language as a mother tongue for Portuguese children and young people and Luso-descendants to live abroad is a key matter so that a healthy and desirable identity, cultural and social link can be maintained through generations.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u18	In addition, in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic there is also the Portuguese State responsible for the defence and promotion of Portuguese culture beyond-border and for ensuring that the children of Portuguese who are living abroad not only access to this culture as the teaching of the mother tongue. However, this link that Portugal has with children and young people living abroad is clearly damaged today. Language teaching policies directed to Portuguese communities over the past decade are weak and, in some cases, possibly non-existent.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u20	It is known that investment in teaching Portuguese is today more directed to students of other nationalities, as a foreign language or an inheritance language, i.e., as a second language, at the expense of teaching Portuguese as a mother tongue.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u21	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u22	These fundamental changes in basic and secondary education, in the context of Portuguese teaching abroad, began with changes made from 2010 by Decree-Law No 165 / 2006 of 11 August 2006 establishing the legal regime of teaching of Portuguese abroad, including the implementation of the reference framework for teaching of Portuguese abroad, as well as the transfer of the protection of the Ministry of Education to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which was a gross error. This reality adds the introduction of the mandatory tip for courses attended exclusively by Portuguese students, including other misimplemented measures. With regard to the matter on which our attention now falls, says, and well, the guiding document of the reference framework for teaching Portuguese abroad, dated 2011 and coordinated by Maria José Grosso, the following: «In the teaching of Portuguese, the intercultural approach is central in order to promote the harmonious development of the learner's personality and his identity, which is not rarely divided between two cultures, giving a response to the enriching experience of alterity in language and culture. Do not keep on seeking. ” It is therefore of the utmost importance to make some legislative amendments, grouped into three major objectives. First, the revocation of the registration rate for young Portuguese and Luso-descendants who come to attend the teaching of Portuguese abroad.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u24	Secondly, the expansion of the teaching network of Portuguese abroad as a mother tongue for young Portuguese and Lusodescendants, transversal to the entire diaspora. Finally, the adoption of policies for teaching Portuguese abroad in basic and secondary education that distinguishes teaching Portuguese as a foreign language in language and education policies for teaching Portuguese as a mother tongue. I also stress the question of the passage of Portuguese teaching protection abroad from the Ministry of Education to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In time, the arrival will present a much clearer idea of this, because we believe that not everything that concerns communities should be protected by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u26	The Portuguese of diaspora are not foreign. Protection is wrong and there are several solutions, including the creation of a Community ministry, which we have in our programme. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u27	You now have the floor to speak, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the petitioners who brought us this subject. The teaching of Portuguese abroad is, in fact, of the greatest relevance, whether for the bonds that remain, or for the right that assists our fellow citizens. It is never more to remember that, under the Constitution, we are talking about a fundamental right of Portuguese children and young people and Luso-descendants living abroad, but also a duty of the State, to provide access to the language. It is true that the teaching of Portuguese abroad has several problems, but there are two, in particular, that we cannot fail to highlight. On the one hand, there is a lack of teachers and on the other, there is a lack of enrolled students. More specifically, there is only one third of the students who existed in 2008 and, in the case of teachers, this reduction is already 50%, in just less than a few years. For the NAP, more than talking about causes, we need to talk about solutions to fix problems and reverse this negative cycle of teaching Portuguese abroad. We therefore bring the debate three very concrete proposals that aim to ensure and dignify access to this discipline. First, we bring the review of the professional conditions of Portuguese teachers abroad, which, in the first line, ensures equity in national competitions, enabling the equal linkage of their peers' circumstances. Secondly, we want the expansion of the teaching network of Portuguese abroad, in the mother tongue aspect, for young Portuguese and Luso-descendant, within and outside Europe. For this, it is necessary not to treat Portuguese as a third language or as extracurricular activity — which we know makes access difficult — as well as to ensure that their certificate of completion is of greater importance. Third and last, it is essential to ensure the end of the tips for all young Portuguese and Luso-descendants who frequent or come to attend the teaching of Portuguese. It makes no sense that a constitutional right is subject to payment and that students pay for something that has been financed by the State within doors, the more when they are away from their homeland and access to a teaching tends to be free of charge.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u29	To speak, Mr Rui Tavares, of the Free, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u30	Mr. President, Dear colleagues, I greet all petitioners and the public. The number of draft laws and resolutions that have been dragged and the speeches that have been made so far clearly demonstrate that there is a joint commitment and affection on the topics that have to do with Portuguese, specifically with Portuguese and Lusodescendants in the diaspora. It is legitimate for people to ask: if there is such a consensus, why do we have a big problem to solve? This problem exists in terms of students who decrease and an error that was made in 2013 to introduce the tip in the payment of teaching of Portuguese as a mother tongue abroad, not yet having this tip been repealed. What is missing here, after all, if there is consensus everywhere? What is missing here, probably, is to overcome this stage in which we see the Portuguese language abroad among the Lusodescendants as merely an affective trait—which is also very important—and to realize how it is an investment in our future together, inside and out. Those who have the experience of Portugal in the diaspora know how often people take knowledge and the ease with which they handle the language as an essential trait of their self-esteem, but also of their possibilities for the future—to return to the country, to do business with the country, to establish networks with other luminophone diasporas. All this is an investment that reproduces in decades and generations to come. It is necessary not to confuse what is the teaching of Portuguese as a mother tongue with the teaching of Portuguese for foreigners, two essential elements of our language policy, but which must have different emphasis given by different ministries — the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in the case of teaching for foreigners, and the Ministry of Education, for the Luso-descendants, as defended by the draft resolution of the Free. We must finally abolish the tip and, apparently, there is a great consensus for this.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u31	Only the government is missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u32	The PS is missing to join this consensus and the government implements it. That is, only the main missing, which is the absolute majority. They say they want to do it and it is obviously essential to provide the manuals to our Lusodescendants abroad. Therefore, we support this petition and it finds consensus, but the most important thing is to move on to practice.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u33	To speak on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The petition that calls upon us today's debate, and whose subscribers we congratulate, in particular the first subscriber, Pedro Rupio, comes to bring to the top and for this debate a subject which, not being new nor being the first time it is discussed in this House, remains, however, relevant. It is also relevant because it insists on having the brand of de-investment and incapacity that lasts in the governments of António Costa, which has been seven years. According to data from various international and national organisations, such as the High Commissioner for Migration, around 20 % of the Portuguese population resides outside Portugal. We are even the country of the European Union with more emigrants in proportion to the resident population. From this universe of Portuguese, we recovered, on average, about 20,000 annually and lost four times more for emigration. The problem of the Portuguese immigration wave of the last decade has been a theme on which the Liberal Initiative has been tireless. Our best people continue to choose to leave the country and most of them decide to follow their lives outside of it. The problem is that for many, perhaps most, they do not see the return. We support, greet and we will always defend those who choose to have other experiences, who seek opportunities or prefer another way of life, but we can't stop fighting for those who prefer to stay here. This is a problem for which the Socialist Party has no solution beyond abrupt programmes that do not solve the problem of lack of opportunity, public services failures, fiscal weight and economic stagnation. Faced with the size and increase of emigration, a renewed strategy is required to maintain the links of our national community beyond-border. That is why we propose a new impetus for the teaching of Portuguese in the mother tongue. It cannot be for a period outside, however short it may be, that the children of our emigrants lose the connection to the teaching of Portuguese as a language and culture that are theirs. We must make sure that all possible obstacles to maintaining this link are removed and that all opportunities remain to maintain the connection to Portugal, opening doors so that the children of migrants themselves can decide to return and win their life here. This is called to invest, create incentives and opportunities. That is why we present a draft resolution to establish a clear definition in the law of teaching of Portuguese in the language aspect, as we outline the actions that can be given in the sense of, on the one hand, expanding the offer of this modality, so that it is not absorbed by Portuguese as a foreign language and, on the other hand, removing any financial barriers to its teaching. The Portuguese curriculum as a mother tongue should be made available universally and freely. This is not only to comply with the constitutionally planned, as in strategic terms it is also the right decision. We will also support all projects that are aligned with these purposes: that of the specific promotion of Portuguese out there, as taught in our schools, and that of the removal of barriers to their access. Yes, all of this requires a renewed impulse from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who has this guardianship, and, above all, from the Camões Institute. It is not only a strategic impulse, as it requires an increased financial commitment with the Portuguese communities, because we know and we defend that, in a country where one fifth of the population lives outside, one cannot always stay and just look inside. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u35	To speak on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mr. Paulo Pisco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin to salute respectfully all the subscribers of the petition "English for All" and the relevance of your intention to seek to strengthen the teaching of Portuguese abroad, a central pillar of the promotion of Portuguese language in the world and of the connection to the country. We believe, however, that the arguments used do not match the reality of our communities nor the ambition that the Portuguese language has today as a language of global projection, as we put it in our draft resolution. It is therefore important to clarify some issues raised in the legislative initiatives of various parliamentary groups. In our view, these issues at nothing contribute to the valorization of Portuguese language abroad, which is integrated into a coherent whole that goes from pre-school to university, under the protection of the Camões Institute, which has the best conditions to ensure the effective adaptation of courses to the different realities in which they are inserted. To say that the EPE (English teaching abroad) is on the verge of extinction or that there has been a devaluation and a deinvestment in the last decade does not correspond in any way to the truth nor does it benefit the promotion and image of the Portuguese language. With the governments of the Socialist Party, the language and teaching of Portuguese abroad have always been and will always be a central vector of our foreign policy, in which the expansion of the network and the improvement of the conditions of teachers and students will always be a priority. We also consider it wrong to attribute to the change in the protection of foreign affairs and to the new EPE legal regime of 2006 the alleged problems in education. It's not like that. There was indeed a change of paradigm, but in a sense that we should be proud, because the Portuguese language began to be viewed as an emigration language, with the constraints that this implies, to occupy the place it deserves by its own law: the fourth most spoken language in the world, the most spoken language in the southern hemisphere, spoken in all continents and working language in three dozen international organizations and present in the EPE network in 17 countries. The change of guardianship and the new legal regime have brought more ambition and rigour to the EPE and an intervention of proximity through embassies and consulates, which has enabled better follow-up of the various teaching modalities, from parallel to integrated, from complementary to associative, and greater capacity to respond to realities and needs on the ground. The adoption of the Common European Framework for Reference to Languages, drawn up by the Council of Europe, did not alienate young Portuguese people nor did it cancel the teaching in their mother tongue.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u37	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u38	It did bring more pedagogical quality and strengthen the importance of the certification of school courses as a fundamental instrument of valorization of academic and professional courses. The worst is almost meaningless xenophobia which refers to courses directed at foreign students and that Portuguese students are discriminated against, only because there was a reduction in the number of students in parallel courses in the troika period. Not only is it false, as the Portuguese language should not be stuck in the ghetto of the mother tongue. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This would be a way of creating difficulties in the formation of courses due to the shortage of students and removing it from the concrete reality of our communities, where levels of linguistic performance vary enormously according to the family context and that teachers know very well to manage in the classroom. To reproduce today an idea of teaching for immigrants as in the 1970s and 1980s is to condemn the language to irrelevance and crush all the economic, political and cultural potential that has been consolidated since the beginning of this century. We do not even think it appropriate to associate the introduction of the tip with the reduction of the number of students in the EPE — at the wrong time, say in favour of the truth, introduced during the crisis by the PSD/CDS Government — since this is hiding a serious problem that then existed of inflation of the number of students enrolled by class, having thousands who have never actually attended the courses, which ended when the registration became transparent. As far as the proposal is concerned, our position is that of the Government Programme: progressively reducing the burden on EPE. This is what we will seek to ensure that it happens until the end of the legislature. The proof that there is no de-investment is that about EUR 17 million in the Recovery and Resilient Plan is fully designed to promote the modernization of parallel education, with new content and other teaching materials, better adapting courses to the profile of students with a more comprehensive use of digital technologies, helping to better prepare young people for the future and to better integrate those who would otherwise remain out of the course because they live in more isolated regions, with the possibility of participating remotely, always in a logic of complementarity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u39	To speak on behalf of the PSD, Mr António Maló de Abreu now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u40	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: I would first of all like to congratulate the subscribers of the petition now under discussion. And what I'm saying cannot be interpreted alone as a gesture of goodwill and courtesy. It should be seen as a sincere thanks to all and to each petitioner. It should be understood as a fair recognition of its concerns, its desires and desires and, above all, its civic commitment, therefore, to its sense of full citizenship to which the greatest expression is given here. We all know not to disappoint you or despair. For my part, I promise not to. « The 1976 constitutional consecration of the quality of the rights of our compatriots living abroad is a masterpiece of our democratic regime» — this has been said by you, Mr President, recently in this House of Democracy. And I agree. Absolutely! And so I also insist on remembering and stressing this privileged rostrum. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I have revisited the programmes of the constitutional governments, from the front and the back, from 1976 to 2022, and I must tell you that everyone has in common, in any case, the need to strengthen the teaching of Portuguese abroad. So, let us take the consequences of the political decisions that have been, or have not been, taken. The learning of the Portuguese language is essential to maintain the identity link with the patrian floor. This nuclear link is seriously threatened by the policies sent out from education to our communities. There has been a deinvestment of Portuguese teaching as a mother tongue. It is notorious, indeed, the wager in teaching as a foreign language. There is a paradigm shift, a clear paradigm change in basic and secondary education, which is evident in the fact that in 2008 there are 80 000 students attending the official Portuguese teaching network abroad and only 45 000 after the introduction of the tip, a number that continues to decrease year after year. It is urgent to catch up on the way, turn the needle, review the policy, take action, impose a new and urgent mission letter, adopting policies for teaching Portuguese abroad, in basic and secondary teachings, which can distinguish the teaching of Portuguese as a foreign language from the policies of education for Portuguese communities; valuing the teaching of Portuguese as a mother tongue; abolishing the tip for all young Portuguese and Luso-descendants, because sdrúxula in these times of famine and in this context of touching forward; betting on the expansion of the teaching network of Portuguese abroad for young Portuguese and Luso-descendants; and demanding a better link between ministries. There are new challenges that call us, especially the realization that it is growing within communities, the number of young people for whom Portuguese is no longer truly the mother tongue. There's not enough proclamations. It is necessary to place Portuguese communities as one of the priorities of our political agenda. And it is necessary to choose the teaching of Portuguese as an anchor of our diaspora, diaspora that exceeds the 5 million souls, residing in more than 180 countries, and needs to know it well, and nearby, where they praise, to her and her problems speak with knowledge of cause. And there is a need for answers, because nothing to do, or a 'do so much', is not the answer to be given. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u41	Mr Paula Santos, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this debate, I would like to add that it is not an element of sole importance to promote and extend the teaching of Portuguese abroad and to ensure access to it as a mother tongue for all children and young people. It is, in fact, an element of great importance and not only as a foreign language, despite the possibility of, of course, promoting the teaching of Portuguese for other children and young people. The question that is underlying here, and that is the priority, is the responsibility that the Government has to ensure this teaching for Portuguese children and young people, so that the Lusodescendants have access to the teaching of Portuguese as a mother tongue.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u43	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u44	In addition to the elimination of the tip and the freeness of the manuals, I wanted here to stress the importance of the extension of the network and the strengthening of the number of teachers, significantly, so that you can go further, and closer, to the communities. It is not quite true, on the contrary, that everything is well in the teaching of Portuguese abroad, as it sought to make the intervention of the Socialist Party believe here. There are many problems and I believe that the number of students enrolled in teaching in Portuguese abroad reveals this, not only in view of the reduction, but given that this reduction occurs at a time when there was even more Portuguese than, in search of better living conditions, went to other countries, that is, in which there was more emigration.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u45	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u46	Therefore, this offer regarding the teaching of Portuguese abroad is, in fact, of great concern and problems are not solved by ignoring them. In fact, they need to be translated into concrete measures and that is what has not been seen. In fact, when we bring proposals to remove the obstacles, strengthen the conditions to promote the teaching of Portuguese as a mother tongue in equal conditions and so that everyone can have access to it, what we have assisted is to reject these proposals by the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u47	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u48	I'm going to finish, Mr. President, I'm sorry. I leave this challenge here: if our language is of the greatest importance—and it is -and if we guarantee the teaching of Portuguese abroad is a responsibility of the government, then we will take measures to remove these obstacles and ensure greater proximity. The adoption of the CFP initiative makes a significant contribution to this progress. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u49	Mr. Paulo Pisco, from the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would just like to mention a few aspects that seem relevant. First of all, when we talk about reducing the number of students in the EPE, I think we have to go back to history and remember that it was during the governance period of the PSD / CDS that there was a suppression of 120 teachers in the teaching of Portuguese abroad, 49 of which in Spain, France and Switzerland, leaving thousands of students without classes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u51	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u52	It is also good to remember that the introduction of a new system for registering students led to more transparency and the deflation of the number of students enrolled in Portuguese courses abroad. This is also very important. Then, in conclusion, there's something else that seems relevant to me as well. They say here that it is a priority for a young person who arrives abroad, aged 10 or 12, and who perfectly dominates Portuguese to learn the same language in the Portuguese language courses offered by the State. Well, I don't think that's the priority. This is a mistake often faced by the parties involved in this discussion. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u53	Mr Rodrigo Saraiva, from IL, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I could not let this debate end without highlighting a moment of Mr. Paulo Pisco's first intervention, when, in making an analysis of the various proposals of virtually all the other political forces present in this House, he concluded that these proposals did not reflect the reality felt by the Portuguese communities by this outside world. When I look, in general, at almost all of these proposals, I see that they reflect, for example, the view that is conveyed to us by the representatives of the Council of the Portuguese Communities, at the multiple meetings they hold with the parliamentary groups and with the Foreign Affairs Committee. So what Mr. Paulo Pisco has done was to oppose all the work and all that they have conveyed to us at the meetings they had with us. Perhaps this explains why the PS has not come forward with a proposal for reform of the Council of the Communities — while the PSD has already fulfilled and has presented it, as I said, at the last meeting we had with the Council — and demonstrates the attention and credibility that Mr Paulo Pisco and the Socialist Party give to the representatives of the Council of the Portuguese Communities. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u55	So we conclude our appreciation of the first item on our agenda. We now move on to the second point, with the appreciation of Petition No 89 / XIV / 1. a ( Carlos Eduardo Perdigão Costa de Almeida et al.) — Return autonomy to Hospital dos Covões ( Centro Hospitalar de Coimbra ). For the right to access to quality health care, together with Resolution Projects n. 115 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — By the autonomy of the hospitals of Coimbra, appreciation of the General Hospital of Covões and by the reversal of the merger process of CHUC hospitals, EPE, and 120 / XV / 1. a (BE) — Strengthening of the Hospital dos Covões and the care capacity of the National Health Service in Coimbra. Mr João Dias, from the CFP, has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate the 4493 petitioners who have asked the Assembly of the Republic to defend the right to access to quality health care and the autonomy of Coimbra hospitals, valuing the General Hospital of Coimbra and the reversal of the merger process of hospitals of the Hospital and University Centre of Coimbra. From the first moment that the PCP was able to hear and follow the will of the populations, who opposed the process of merging the Hospitals of the University of Coimbra, the Hospital Center of Coimbra and the Hospital Center of Coimbra in the Hospital and University Center of Coimbra, and the concerns that this process has raised and whose implementation over the years has been confirmed. This merger, giving rise to the Hospital and University Centre of Coimbra, decided during the PS government and implemented on the ground from 2011 onwards by the PSD / CDS government, became a structure of abnormally large and difficult and complex management, which does not serve the interests of the city, the municipality, the district, the region and the country. This merger led to the reduction of hospital services and valences and only benefits private health care providers, as can be seen by the increase in the supply of private services in the region, promoted by large economic groups, while at the same time attending the degradation of public hospitals. Moreover, this merger did not result from any prior technical study or hearing of the professionals and services developed, nor did it result from the establishment of any installation committee representing the various institutions, services or valences that could technically evaluate the process. They were removed from the Hospital dos Covões, which covered about 800 000 people, such as nuclear services as gastroenterology, neurology, neurosurgery, urology, otorhinolaryngology, ophthalmology, oncology, hematology, pneumology, immuno-hemotherapy, pathological anatomy, infection, nephrology, imaging and cardiology. Mrs. Members, the successive closures disaggregated teams with a lot of accumulated clinical experience, disenfranchised the installed capacity and also caused the closure of the emergency service at night and on weekends. The emergency service, which had reopened during the night period due to the pandemic, closed again from April 2021, between 22 and 9 hours. What's at stake is the General Coupon Hospital as a whole, Mr. Members, and not just this or that service or valence. It's just that an emergency hospital is a fragile hospital.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u57	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u58	If, on the one hand, the General Hospital of the Covões was emptied, on the other hand, the HUC (Hospitals of the University of Coimbra) were overloaded, a situation that had as a result the long rows in the urgency, the wholesale waiting lists and improvised solutions to respond to this overload, such as the containers that have been installed in their perimeter. Considering the process of accelerated degradation of health care provided in Coimbra hospitals, following the contested merger process, and interpreting the deep feeling of the populations and health professionals, the CFP has again proposed the reversal of this perverse merger in the Hospital and University Centre of Coimbra and defends that simultaneously an action of planning and organization of public health services, articulating primary, hospital and continuing health care, involving the local community, users, health professionals and autarchies in the process of defining solutions to the needs of the population and providing the public health units of adequate means and human resources to ensure a quality and effective response of the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u59	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u60	So, and ending up, Mr President, we are presenting a draft resolution that provides for the reversal of the merger process of the eight Coimbra hospitals integrated in the Coimbra Hospital and University Centre, the urgent intervention in Coimbra maternity and the allocation of the necessary Coimbra hospital units of workers and material and financial means. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u61	To speak on behalf of the Left Block, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Several thousands of petitioners claiming that autonomy will be returned to the Hospital dos Covões, in Coimbra, came to this House asking for solidarity for this claim. The Left Block greets each and every one of them. It is well understood why they claim this autonomy for the Hospital dos Covões. Since the establishment of the Hospital and University Centre of Coimbra, the Hospital dos Covões has been abandoned and lost services. It also has a unique circumstance: an urgent time of opening and closing; however, the best thing for people to do is to avoid getting sick. Since 2011, when the Socialist Party decided to create this and many other hospital centers — all with the aim of concentrating services and saving, or at the expense of the SNS (National Health Service ) — the Hospital dos Covões lost neurosurgery, neurology, infection, urology, gastroenterology and pathological anatomy. In addition, he saw services such as nephrology or radiology being extremely reduced and until his urgency passed in half time. The results are in sight: overcrowding of the university hospital, more difficulty in access to health and less services available to the population. There are days when there is a real going and coming from ambulances between hospitals, now because the urgency of the Covões is closed, now because there are no doctors and it is necessary to transport patients to the university hospital, now because it is necessary any examination that any patient has to do and for that has to walk from one side to the other. Everything that shouldn't happen! All of this is happening without any study or technical basis. The objective was even to reduce and declassify the Hospital dos Covões. After all, on these choices, the Ministry of Health said the following: «[... ] if the Government has any technical study to justify the transfer of services from the General Hospital to the Hospitals of the University of Coimbra, no; basis for the reclassification of urgency, no; and study supporting this type of option, no». It was therefore a political option to reduce the National Health Service, to concentrate services and, above all, as a consequence, to worsen services. This option has to be undone, and that is why we follow the petitioners and the idea that we need to strengthen the National Health Service and the care of the SNS in Coimbra. How? Through these proposals we bring here the debate and the vote: to reverse the emptying of the Hospital dos Covões and the transfer of resources services to the university hospital; to create a strategic and investment plan for the Hospital dos Covões that, without unnecessary redundancy, puts in it all the services, equipment and professionals that are necessary for the population, that are necessary to unburden the university hospital and that guarantee faster and greater access to health; and to reverse the disqualification of the emergency service of the Hospital dos Covões, providing him with the conditions to be a medical-surgical emergency service again. to the Socialist Party, which has already made the freight of emptying the Coupon Hospital, the question we ask is very direct: will it continue to make the freight to those who want to empty the National Health Service? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u63	To speak on behalf of the IL, Mrs Joana Cordeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by greeting the 4493 subscribers of this petition for bringing the debate, in this Assembly of the Republic, of a matter of greater relevance not only to the city of Coimbra, but also to the whole region. We all know that in recent years, the Hospital of Covões has been disenfranchised from services, as well as from material and human resources, which have been transferred to the Hospitals of the University of Coimbra. This situation has left many disgruntled and quite demotivated professionals and has left the population unhappy, since access to health care in time and hours has become even more compromised. To solve this problem, there are those who defend the autonomy of the Hospital dos Covões in relation to the Hospital Center and University of Coimbra,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u65	Like the petitioners!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u66	... as is the case with this petition, through the reversal of the constitution of this hospital. I would like to make it clear that for the Liberal Initiative a decision of this kind requires weighting and sense of responsibility. To solve a problem with this dimension, it is not enough to reverse a model, until that may not be the best solution. What would it be good to empower the Hospital des Covões if, at the same time, he was not given the means and resources to respond to the needs of the population and to motivate and be attractive to his professionals? Autonomize the Covón Hospital, by itself, would it bring performance and efficiency gains? Would you solve the structural problems of the hospital building? Would you give your Board such desired autonomy of management? I reinforce that a decision of this kind requires weighting, sense of responsibility and that it first evaluates what the actual needs of the region, which answers are available for these needs and where they are. It is important to ensure that services, skills or capabilities are not duplicated and that waste or inefficiencies are not generated. Now, there are no concrete answers to any of these questions at this time, because there are no well-founded studies to indicate the way forward. In the Liberal Initiative, what we know is that the population served by the Hospital dos Covões — and, of course, throughout the hospital centre of the city of Coimbra — has the right to access to differentiated health care and in good time. We also know that health professionals deserve and have the right to better and more attractive working conditions so that they feel motivated in their functions. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Coimbra hospitals have been a national and international example of clinical excellence. For this reason, and for the respect we deserve, the Liberal Initiative is neither, nor will it be, available for reasoned and sustained decisions. We want serious studies, we want informed decisions and that is why we will fight, for the benefit of the population of the Coimbra region, for the benefit of their health professionals and for the benefit of the entire national health system. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u67	To speak on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mr. Pedro Coimbra has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by greeting and complimenting the ladies and gentlemen. Questionnaires, stressing the importance of this citizenship initiative before this Parliament and the Portuguese. Well, there you go, that's why! It was by the hand of a Government of the Socialist Party, with Mário Soares as Prime Minister and with Antonio Arnaut as Minister of Health, who was created the National Health Service. It is also by the hand of a Government of the Socialist Party, now led by Antonio Costa, as Prime Minister, that the largest investment in the last few years is being carried out in the SNS. In 2023, the health budget reaches the highest allocation of time, which will increase access, quality and efficiency in this public service, contributing to ensuring its sustainability. The 2023 budget continues a choice that began in 2015 and represents an increase of EUR 4423 million in transfers from the State budget to the sector. This increase in financial resources has made it possible to ensure a very relevant infrastructure and equipment investment plan. I would like to point out that this financial reinforcement has enabled the increase in the number of human resources in the SNS, which increased from 126 212 professionals in 2015 to 153 530 professionals in 2022. In seven years, there are more 27 318 professionals in the SNS. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u69	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, also in Coimbra, investment in SNS has been a reality. As an example, we have the new health center of Fernão de Magalhães, which has been waiting for decades and is almost ready;...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u70	Almost! Almost missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u71	... the significant investments under way in equipment and in the re-qualification of the surgical and imaging building of the IPO ( Portuguese Institute of Oncology ) ; the re-qualification, whose process is already underway, of the urgent service of the Hospital and University Centre.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u72	It's almost there too!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u73	Finally, I wanted to highlight a new motherhood in Coimbra, whose implementation process is under way.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u74	It's almost there!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u75	After decades of delay, the new motherhood will be a reality, keeping the government the year 2024 for the realization of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u76	Let's go!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u77	Mr President, the restructuring of the hospital park, in a logic of integration, complementarity, concentration of resources and strategic compatibility, is a clear bet of the SNS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u78	It's going well!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u79	Following this policy and based on criteria of demographic homogeneity and care complementarity, in 2011 the merger of several hospitals, including the Hospitals of the University of Coimbra, the Hospital and University Centre of Coimbra and the Psychiatric Hospital Center of Coimbra, was conducted. This merger aims to improve the provision of health care, ensuring the quality and diversification of supply, universalize access and increase efficiency. To this end, among other consequences, the creation of this hospital reduced the organic, administrative and functional structure of the health units involved, reducing the management structures by more than half. The establishment of hospitals also underscores the importance of university education and research. In parallel, investment in adequate infrastructure and infrastructure maintenance will be strengthened, ensuring the best working conditions for all professionals and the best response in health care to SNS users. Thus, the Hospital dos Covões continues and will continue to ensure a very important role and therefore received investments to modernize and extend its capacity for hospitalization and internal medicine, which maintains general surgery and orthopaedia admissions; it is re-qualifying the admission of cardiology and to design an integrated unit of active and healthy aging, complemented with an orthogyeria unit; it has developed, in particular, the ambulatory component, with the investment in the construction of a new unit of ambulatory surgery that today centralizes the response of the entire hospital; and has installed a cardiorespiratory rehabilitation unit and invested in hemodialysis, in the ambulatory center of pneumology, in sleep medicine and cochlear implants. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In conclusion, I want to say that over the last few decades the Hospital of Covões has always given great assistance to our populations and surely with these policies of investment in the SNS, it will continue to give. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u80	To speak on behalf of the NAP, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I begin to greet the petitioners who have allowed today to debate the future and the current situation of the Hospital des Covões. Despite this request dating back to 2020, the NAP follows the concerns expressed in this text and will also follow the remaining proposals under discussion. As they refer to — and well — the petitioners, we must not forget that the Hospital des Covões represents 47 years of history in the provision of health care, so it must deserve all respect by the Government and this House and also the attention and care to advance solutions to the problems identified so far. This hospital unit is essential for the provision of health services in Coimbra and assumes particular importance for the populations of the interior of the country. The merger of this unit with the Hospital of the University of Coimbra cannot represent an injury to access to the provision of health care for these populations, nor can it only comply with economic criteria or resource savings. It is necessary to ensure that the management of these services is carried out in the light of the shortcomings, geographical specificity and well-being of the populations. To conclude, despite the investments made in this unit, the errors resulting from the merger carried out in 2011, which led to the emptying of this hospital unit, but now there is, through the proposals under discussion, the possibility of correcting some of the situations mentioned here.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u82	To speak on behalf of the PSD, Mr Maló de Abreu has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Finally, today is under discussion in this House the petition concerning the Hospital dos Covões, in Coimbra. I thank the petitioners very much. They allow me, because I have been the rapporteur, who begins by stressing the thorough work done in hearings, collecting statements and information and multiple visits to the field in order to clarify, conveniently and with the depth required, the important and complex questions raised by the articulation of the petition. Let me not fail to mention, so that I may be plowed up, those who have been very close and committed to this subject, thanking the careful contributions of Mr Gouveia of the Socialist Party ; the lucid intelligence of Mr José Manuel Pureza of the Left Block ; the restless militia of Mrs Ana Mesquita of the PCP ; and the rigorous wisdom of Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS. Thank you all. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there are three questions, two doubts and a conclusion which must be put here in full clarity. The first question is whether there was a constant reduction in resources and capacities of the Hospital dos Covões and whether this caused weariness, demotivation, sadness and revolt in the clinical body. The second question is whether the reduction in the hospital's response capacity led to increased risk of error, overload of services and increased employment rates to levels above the ideal or cancelling of consultations. And the third question is about whether, in defense of a National Health Service of quality, easy access and in good time, it is essential that the hospital has sufficient and necessary autonomy. The answer to all of them is 'yes', without a margin for a 'no' or'maybe'. Doubts must also be asked. The first is to know whether there has always been a deliberate but camouflaged intention of, in a slow and progressive process, finally closing down the Hospital dos Covões ; and the second is to know whether this would have already happened if the professionals had not raised their voice energetically, if the petitioners had not mobilized their wills and if the city and the region had not manifested themselves in open opposition. These doubts allow me, in a world made of people increasingly loaded with absolute certainty, commenting with the same will and with solemn air the pandemic and war, the economy and football, the poverty that afflicts and the beauty of a fairy song. Finally, the conclusion: the process of merging the Hospitals of the University of Coimbra with the Hospital Center of Coimbra, which based on complementarity, resulted in an effective emptying of the Covões, not having the changes worked in the system of communicating vessels. The solution is clearly the existence of two polarities that create synergies, cooperate and respond to the needs of patients, but the focus is on the lack of a definition of a health policy for the region, which contains an integrative strategy, based on technical reflection and analyzing responses to needs. Good decisions impose the intransigent defense of the public interest and pass through a mature and careful reflection. A systemic, diversified, rational and efficient answer that does not put financial questions or petty interests above the only interest that should move us: serving people, and well! those of Coimbra, I can't help but remember that the impossible are for those who don't resist and give up, and I asked the word to tell you this: we, no! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u84	For an intervention on behalf of the European Union, Mr Pedro Frazão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This petition, which I welcome in the person of your petitioners, has reminded you that, as in China, health measures are jeopardizing the totalitarianism of the Chinese Communist Party, also in Portugal the PS measures for the SNS are jeopardizing the PS Government today in Portugal because we have the clinical bodies of the hospitals to resign themselves and the SNS again in chaos. But this initiative called for autonomy to be returned to the Hospital dos Covões, for the right to access to health care and therefore Mrs. Members, Mr President, what we have here are people crying for health in Portugal. In the last decade, we have seen, in fact, the dismantling and loss of the response capacity of this hospital, either at the hospital or in the emergency, already without talking about intensive care, which in the meantime were also withdrawn. Mrs. Members, we have seen teams of excellence to be dismantled and distributed, in a dispersed way, by other services of the University Hospital Center in Coimbra and the patients themselves to be taken to other structures and even to take tests elsewhere, because they have taken the resources of the Hospital of Coimbra. at the same time, there were several public demonstrations, human cords, demonstrations with more than 1000 people, various trade unions and the City Hall of Coimbra itself, the Municipal Assembly of Coimbra, the Intermunicipal Community of the Coimbra Region, the joints and unions of freguesia and, even — see! — the Concelia Political Committee of the Socialist Party, all unanimously speaking against the extinction of this hospital. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It is therefore demonstrated here once again that we live in a country of socialist 'I want, I can and I command', of a dominant majority. It is also noteworthy that it is in this city, where Dr. António Arnaut was born and died, that founder of the SNS and that the Socialist Party really likes to use as a pinpella, which are undoing the worst blows against the management of the SNS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u86	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u87	In Coimbra, a region that, underlining, serves 2, 3 million inhabitants, there were two large hospitals, which were merged. Now, this is a fusion of bad memory, because until then, the Hospital dos Covões, which served the population from the south bank of Mondego to the Interior Pinhal, worked perfectly. What happened was a gradual dismantling, with the phased elimination of more than 10 specialized services, laboratories, and the disqualification of multi-purpose emergency services in basic urgency. The professionals were even prevented from performing their routine activity. The scientific literature itself, which the Ministry of Health and the regional administration have knowledge, points to the presence of a hospital for about 800 000 inhabitants. at a time when we should be discussing the possible opening of a third unit with such characteristics in the Centre region, we are paradoxically witnessing the dismemberment of the Hospital dos Covões and the consequent and undesirable overload of the University Hospital Center in Coimbra, where the marking of consultations with more than two years of waiting is, for example, one of the symptoms of saturation that is seen there. Therefore, it was in fact an autocratic power that, in June 2020, through the Regional Health Administration of the Centre, also recognized that there was no strategic plan for the merger between the Hospital des Covões and the University Hospital. And even in August 2021, the regional president of the Medical Order came to say that what was happening was a decommissioning without justification. Prime Minister himself said in 2015, and I quote: «There are no beds in hospitals is not saving money, it is lack of respect for users. For what the PS government is doing in Coimbra is that, to be disrespected by users. At the end of this, there are still many questions to answer. The former Minister of Health said there was no technical study to justify the transfer of services from the Covões, and yet it is being done. We also asked him why the location of the new promised motherhood for Coimbra has not yet been decided and why the creation of the University Hospital Center in Coimbra and the merger with the domain of a hospital over the other five remains. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u88	To speak on behalf of the Free, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Coimbra had, until a decade or so ago, two central hospitals, a situation that was neither unpublished nor bad, was a good situation. He had a typically university hospital, with his triple valence of research, clinic and pedagogy, of teaching, on the right edge of the Mondego, in a more urban area; and a hospital—with a particular history, because it was the hospital of the Portuguese colony coming from Brazil, returned to the country—on the left edge of the Mondego, with an absolutely enviable natural envelopment and had other types of characteristics. The merger of these two hospitals has just made two hospitals a hospital and a half, and it's on its way to be just one. Therefore, this petition is quite right in stressing that the fact that they operate independently enabled synergies and cooperation that now do not exist. When one recognizes that something, in practice, does not work or does not work, there is still time to reverse it. Therefore, the Libertre unequivocally supports this petition and believes that it is time to once again give dignity and autonomy to the Hospital dos Covões and to make it function in two central hospitals which, by the way, in one and a half, on the way to being only one, does not work and not only serves worse Coimbra as the whole of the Centre region.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u90	We thus reach the end of the second item of our agenda and move on to the third point, at which we will appreciate Petition No 139 / XIV / 2. a (Regional Directorate of the Faro of the Union of Portuguese Nurses) — Support the nurses of the Algarve, together with the Bill No. 151 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Change in nursing career, in order to value these professionals so important for the National Health Service and for the country, in general, and Resolution Projects Nos 121 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — By valuing health professionals and SNS in the Algarve region and 294 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Recommends the elimination of intermediate positions in the categories of specialist nurses and managers placed in 1. a and 2. the remuneration positions and their wage updates. To speak, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I want to greet the thousands of petitioners and, in their own people, to take advantage of the opportunity to greet and thank all the professionals of the National Health Service. Nurses, doctors, senior diagnostic technicians, pharmacists, operational assistants, psychologists, so many and so many, thanks for the work they do for the country. We know that they live again a very complicated situation in hospitals and health centres and that the government only finds words of devaluation, but the Left Block does not forget your work. The petitioners claim measures to support and value nursing professionals in the Algarve. Now, even before this debate, the Left Block presented, in the discussion of the State Budget for 2023, several proposals for the National Health Service and the professionals of the SNS, specifically those of the Algarve region. Why? Oh, my God! Because we know that it is one of the regions where a specific plan is needed, taking into account the historical, chronic and recurrent problems that are getting worse. And what happened to those proposals? Oh, my God! The proposal to increase vacancies for training specialized in the Algarve, both for general and family medicine and for hospital specialities, had the votes against the PS and the Liberal Initiative and complicit abstentions of the PSD and the Arrival. [[PSD and CH protests.]] The proposal to increase the lack of incentives associated with Algarve had the votes against the PS and the Liberal Initiative and complicit abstentions from the PSD and the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u92	No point, it's ugly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u93	But who was in management? Oh, my God! What a can!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u94	The proposal for harmonisation of the CIT (individual labour contract) and public employment contracts had the votes against the PS and the Liberal Initiative and complicit abstentions of the PSD and the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u95	There are no collective judgments!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u96	You got the idea, didn't you? Oh, my God! The gentlemen. Members and Members of Parliament have already understood and consciousness is very heavy. The right is against the National Health Service in the Algarve. They will now say many of these Members and Members who need to invest in health professionals, but they will only deceive the very distracted, because what the PSD, the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival really want to do is to fatten up the private health business. In fact, they want to do exactly the same as the Socialist Party Government is doing. The Left Block insists on the appreciation of professionals,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u97	It's always the same tape.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u98	...in particular nurses and nurses. Therefore, we bring the debate a change to the career that not only guarantees the full counting of the years of service, as provided for the negotiation of the wage grid of the nursing career, the positioning in the specialist category of all nurses-specialists and the creation of a status of risk and penosity. The Socialist Party and the Government have said that they will move forward with the correct counting of nurses' points. What they don't say is that this comes with four years' delay and that, therefore, they chose to take the nurses, for four years, thousands and thousands of euros of wages that were due them. Nor do they say that they continue to maintain a poorly paid nursing career, not paying nurses as the other superior health technicians, and that they continue to deny a status of risk and penosity that allows, for example, early retirement or increased remuneration. Now, here's a proposal to do all this. If the PS really wants to value professionals and improve the working and career conditions of nurses, there is only one thing to do: pass this left block bill and stop paying attention to what it does. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u99	To speak for the PCP, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we would like to welcome the 4877 petitioners who have asked the Assembly of the Republic to be recognized what was assumed by the administrations of the University Hospital Center of Algarve and ARS, so that these commitments are fulfilled in writing with nurses. Today, they will not miss—and have not missed— bacocos speeches around health professionals, but when confronted with concrete proposals in order to strengthen the rights of nurses, to value and effectively recognize their professional performance, to ensure better working conditions, what do they do? What are they doing, in particular, PS and PSD, accompanied by the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival, which are often on top of the wall? [[Protests of CH Deputies.]] This is when they are not on the side of those who harm health professionals and prevent nurses from seeing their valued career. Today there will also be those who say that the situation was resolved with the decree published two days ago and that, in the meantime, justice was restored. Only not! No, sir. Members, there are still injustices, since then because retroactivity reports to 2018 and not to 2022. Mrs. Members, the State Budget Act for 2018 defrosted wage progress in Public Administration with effect from 1 January 2018. In the specific case of the nurses of Algarve, the administration of the University Hospital Center of Algarve and the board of directors of the Algarve assumed that they would account for the points for career progression to all nurses, regardless of the contractual link. Moreover, the administration of the Algarve University Hospital Center formally notified all nurses, informing them of the points for their progression, but — Mrs. Members, there is always a 'but' — it has only achieved wage progression with its change of pay position for nurses with employment contracts in public functions and for 17 nurses at the Hospital de Lagos with individual employment contracts, leaving hundreds of nurses under the same conditions without being properly repositioned. In the case of the board of directors of the Algarve ARS, although agreeing that nurses have the right to account for all points, so far, has not fulfilled the commitment you signed. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, nurses don't need applause. Nurses need to see to be considered each year effectively worked and to be able to make progress in the career; nurses need to have a perspective of career progression and not to be prevented from making progress because there are administrative quotas that are imposed on them; nurses need to have their rights strengthened; nurses need better working conditions and to value careers and their wages. It understands the PCP that nurses are an essential element to ensure the future of the National Health Service as well as a public sector of quality and for all. To achieve this, it is necessary to provide the SNS of nurses and other health professionals with adequate numbers, integrate them into valued careers, with adequate remuneration, and motivate them to perform this essential public service. These are the conditions that allow the National Health Service to defend and strengthen, so it is necessary that this appreciation be made. When it is concerned to take the choice of defense for valuing the rights of workers, in this case of nurses, the same as always converge to prevent these advances. The PCP does not give up and does not lower its arms. The PCP is here and will be to intervene and fight for the effective valorization of nurses' careers and salaries and for the guarantee of working conditions in the SNS. [[PCP applause.]] [[In the meantime, he took the presidency of Vice-President Adam Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u101	I congratulate all the Members and all the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. We continue with a speech by Mr Rui Tavares of the Free.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: One day we have to have a debate about why we care so badly for those who choose as a profession and as a vocation to take care of others. Nurses and nurses in Portugal are very abused, since they are studying and receiving job offers outside the country, in which they are told something so simple, but Portugal is not able to tell them, which is this: all the training they do throughout their career is guaranteed by those who pay them. Here, you have to pay for your pocket. Then, when they do these expensive trainings, paid from their pocket, and progress in their career, being asked to perform leadership or management functions, or functions of some specialty, often, what happens to them is, after they have performed these functions—that, in some cases, have already been extinguished as such, as that of nurse-chief—, go back to the career and earn less, despite what they have given to the National Health Service and despite the effort, commitment and capacity to help that they have shown. In addition, even when some occasional situations are resolved, there are always situations like those of the nurses in the Algarve to be resolved. Therefore, the Livre accompanies, as it has already accompanied in the discussion of the Budget, the bill of the Left Block and the draft resolution of the Communist Party, also presents its own draft resolution, in which it defends that nurses in these intermediate positions automatically move to the above, subsequent positions in the wage grid, in order to be able to make progress in their careers, which is fair and due, and still defends that the government updates the wage progression of these professionals. This is not, we understand, what it would be necessary to do now to value all that nurses and nurses have given to the SNS and the community they serve, but at least it would be a start to correct the injustices of many years, which have not been corrected more recently. It is therefore essential to take good care of those who have made their choice of life care for us.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u103	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Not only do I respect everyone, but I also thank the petitioners who have allowed the issue of support for nurses to be discussed today, in this case in particular in the Algarve, but we all well know that it is a cross-cutting problem throughout the country. The NAP follows the concerns expressed in this petition and will also be in favour of the remaining proposals under discussion. For the NAP, it was always more than evident the necessary change in nursing career, just as we cannot forget the health assistant technicians, something that has been systematically embedded in the drawer, but it is essential that all operational, all technicians who form the National Health Service are recognized and valued. Clearly, it is necessary to strengthen these professionals. It is urgent to create better conditions for those who work and are integrated in the SNS to work, under the penalty of continuing to see our professionals not only leaving for the private as well as for the foreign to achieve conditions and dignity in their work that they do not find in Portugal. The NAP has already presented a number of initiatives aimed at putting an end to various injustices in this area, in particular with the change of nursing career rules and the enhancement of these workers, also with the approval of a special regime applicable to nursing careers and the recognition of a special regime of penosity applicable to these health professionals. We also present a proposal for the creation of an exceptional scheme of late payments, extending to nurses the scheme of incentives for the establishment of health professionals in areas lacking.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u105	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u106	I really am concluding, Mr President. There is no lack of initiatives in this House of the Republic, but in fact there is a lack of political will on the part of the majority in this Parliament. We hope that there will now be clear signs that nurses and other health professionals will not stay behind.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u107	For an intervention by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Jorge Botelho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me - a greeting, first of all, to all 4715 petitioners who have signed the petition « Supporting the nurses of the Algarve », promoted by the Directorate-Regional Faro of the Union of Portuguese Nurses,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u109	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u110	... which is dated 30 September 2020. That is, this petition is over two years old. Allow me to make a special greeting too, because I could not fail to do so, to all Portuguese nurses and to all other health professionals for the work they perform every day in favour of our citizens, with pandemic or without pandemic, in the many services of the SNS and also in the private sector. Truly, the question underlying this petition benefits all nurses. The question of careers, of dignity of careers, throughout the health sector, is on the agenda and has been a commitment made in the negotiating rounds, by this government guardianship, who have taken a number of steps in recent times so that subsequent responses can be given to the content of this petition. in this petition we speak in particular of wage progressions of nurses, resulting from the counting of points attributed by performance, with the inherent wage update. This is a legitimate concern of nurses, who, fortunately, have taken significant steps towards their resolution in recent months.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u111	By the way, in the Budget, it went well! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u112	The issue of careers in the SNS, as well as that of nurses, is particularly on the agenda of concerns. The truth is that the current government health team has assumed this matter as one of the management emergencies to which an urgent solution should be given. in a perspective of valuing the careers of Portuguese nurses, the Ministry of Health promoted negotiating rounds with the representative unions of Portuguese nurses, with a view to defining the model of recovery of points obtained at the center of performance assessment and their salary update, already from this year 2022, in a perspective of reaching a result. And the result is that "the great is the enemy of the good",...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u113	That's what's fair!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u114	... but there are results, and they have already translated into legislation approved by the Council of Ministers on 10 November, promulgated by the President of the Republic, on 26 November, and which is already published. In practice, and it is the practice and outcome that, in December of this year, already from tomorrow, more than 20 000 Portuguese nurses, regardless of their regime of binding to SNS — and this is essential, is one of the basic issues of protection in the discrepancy between nurses with individual employment contracts, with employment contracts in public or with any other regime — will all be treated equally, regardless of the link,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and will have wage updates by counting points since 2014. As a result, two-thirds of nurses will rise, from December, and with payment this month, a remuneration level of €200 per month and one-third of nurses will be repositioned at two remuneration levels of €400 per month, with retroactive effects on 1 January 2022, and paid in December, which begins tomorrow, with a financial impact on the State budget, still this year, of €72 million and which is reflected in subsequent years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With this measure, say what is said, there is some justice, but all, to this petition and to the progressions in the careers of Portuguese nurses. In fact, there is no requalification of the SNS without revalorization of careers and wage progressions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u115	That's your fault!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u116	This path is being made, but it is always possible to do better. Since I am here, I mean that with regard to the Algarve, the government has already decided that the new central hospital will be a reality...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u117	Apparently!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u118	... and will be built under PPP regime (public-private partnerships). It is not worth being "send sand for the eyes" of people! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u119	You have the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Joana Barata Lopes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u120	I begin by congratulating Mr President, the ladies and gentlemen. Members and, of course, in particular, the Regional Lighthouse Directorate of the Portuguese Nurse Union, which allows us to have this debate, which not only respects the nurses of the Algarve but is, of course, extensible to the situation of nurses throughout the country. It starts by being interesting to hear the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party say that all the others, not them, resigned from solving problems like the one they talked about here, when they were the same ones that, during the previous legislature, had the opportunity to impose red lines...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u121	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u122	... when they approved the Government's budgets supported by the Socialist Party. [[PSD applause.]] And so much so that, even now, in the discussion of the State budget, which ended last week, several times here said: thanks to the CFP this happened!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u123	in this, in particular, you voted next to the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u124	It was thanks to the Left Block that this happened! But in what actually had to make the difference... well, the nurses' question was not important enough to be resolved. It's also true, and it's right here to say,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u125	It's good to tell the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u126	... taking one of the statements made by the Socialist Party here, which were the same budgets that did not foresee money to build the central hospital of the Algarve, and that the PCP and the Left Block made possible in this Budget. [[PSD applause.]] So when we hear them say that the others resign from their duties, it is appropriate to bear in mind what they resigned when they had the opportunity to make the difference, because now they don't, do they? Oh, my God! [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] So now they can come to say what they want, but neither can we forget. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u127	Of course, this issue, as I said, concerns nurses globally and not only those of the Algarve and if it is true that, as Mr. Deputies of the Socialist Party said, and also by the Regional Directorate of the Faro of the Union of Portuguese Nurses, there is a problem that comes from the State Budget Act for 2018, apparently it has been corrected this week with the publication of the diploma of the defreezing of careers that had been coming since 2005, curiously, also of a socialist government. It happens that already in 2018, as we know—and it is the situation set out in the petition that is brought to us—that application of the law was not clear and so much it was not that it generated the petition that we are discussing today. Therefore, now in 2022, comes the government, and well, because only budgetaryly could it do so, submit a proposal to mitigate the damage to the bad proposal that they approved in 2018. We will see, and hope that yes, if it will indeed clarify the doubts that led to a misapplication and a totally unjustified differentiation between nurses with employment contracts in public functions and with individual employment contracts. We hope that there will now be this replacement of justice, but the measures we are talking about today show a number of other issues, including professional valuation and wage valuation. Truly, what we can ask is: what is the will of the socialist majority, such a compressor roll—... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u128	... that, according to what you say here, it really changes, and it will improve, and it has a lot of consideration by the Portuguese nurses—to change the situation, namely wage valuation, of the Portuguese nurses? The Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party still presented a proposal for a budgetary amendment to equate the special career of nurses with the enhancement of general careers, that you both here and where you did not include nurses. And, you note, the truth is that what they so valued in the Multiannual Agreement on the Valuation of Public Administration Workers — I must say, in fact, in a profession where the average age is 38 years old — that they say they will take the aim of continuing the path of valorization, training and rejuvenation of the Public Administration, left the nurses out. So what leads us to ask is: they left us out, they voted against this match, this change in the injustice that you created, why? Oh, my God! The nurses don't deserve this consideration that, that lever, so often say that, after all, they deserve it? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]] The truth is that it does not matter whether this is a matter of words. Even though the Social Democratic Party presented a draft resolution where, in relation to the nurses in the front line, in fact, it recommended to the Government that, not only by word, recognize, either in performance prizes, or from the point of view of holiday enjoyment, the work they did during the pandemic, the work of nurses is much greater than that done during the pandemic. As we all know and value here, it is the nurse who is responsible for caring, with the technical and scientific knowledge that we continue and fear not to recognize and that the Socialist Party has again ignored and disregarded this State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u129	Now you have a heavy conscience!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u130	Words lead them to the wind, but still, it is better than saying that Champions is a prize for health workers, or that nurses' strikes are illegal and severely serious, or that they should be disregarded, which led a whole country to manifest itself and assume positions, with a class, such as that of nurses, disrespecting the dignity that we recognize them. The question that we are asking cannot be different, and with this end, Mr President : regardless of these issues they have to do with collective bargaining, could the Socialist Party have approved wage valuation in the last State budget, but it has not done so, and thus what does it have against the Portuguese nurses? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u131	Tonight he doesn't even sleep, with the weight in his conscience!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u132	Mr Pedro Pinto has the floor for an intervention on this petition.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We were today to know that the fault of the nurses' problem is precisely that of the authors of this petition, because, if they had done it sooner, the problem of the Portuguese nurses would be solved tomorrow—that is what I said here, from the height of this pulpit, the Member of the Socialist Party. [[Congrats from the CH.]] This petition, which we are discussing here today, is of the greatest importance. We know, and have denounced, how health is abused in Portugal, particularly in the region of the Algarve. This area of the country has been constantly forgotten by successive governments of Lisbon: this is the true feeling that the algarves have. The southern region of the country serves only to spend holidays, given its climate and its magnificent beaches. But there is side b of history, which is fundamental to those who live there: the Algarve does not close the door at the end of six months, it has to live every day of the year. Health is a fundamental axis and its professionals deserve decent treatment in their professions. I give you two examples: in the Faro hospital there are few nurses for, in August, 300 people daily; and in the Portimão hospital, on 27 July, the nursing teams made 1691 extraordinary hours, I repeat, 1691 extraordinary hours. The real state of health in the Algarve, which the Socialist Party aims to hide, is the following: people die because of lack of ambulances; there are patients hospitalized for one week to do a CT scan (computed tomography) or magnetic resonance; there are monkeys and hospitalized people scattered by the corridors; due to the lack of monkeys the ambulances are kept three and four hours; there are elderly people to die at home, and INEM (National Institute of Medical Emergency) is called for deaths.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u134	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u135	Portugal and Algarve need a health medicine and not a disease medicine. They ask themselves: why were the pediatric and obstetrical emergencies closed in summer, in more than half the time, either at the Faro hospital, or at the hospital in Portimão? The answer is easy: due to lack of effective, lack of doctors and nurses. In May, he proposed here, through a draft resolution, the immediate recruitment of health professionals to the Algarve region, but he obtained the vote against the absolute prepotency of the Socialist Party and the abstentions of the Liberal Initiative and the PCP, that is, the party that is always on the wall, Mr. João Dias. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] But the question is: who wants to be a nurse if he is sometimes mistreated and even targeted by aggressions, by families who continue to be untouchable in this society, where values are scarce, if he works tens of hours in order not to be rewarded at the end of the month, nor see his profession valued, coming to the scandal of a nurse who now comes to receive the same as a professional who has been practicing his profession for 20 years? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u136	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u137	We have already asked the question to the former Minister of Health and the current Minister: what is the solution to fill the lack of human resources in the Faro hospital? The answer is: «Let's solve, let's solve ». But when, Minister? When are you gonna work it out? The extreme left comes here today to present bills of law and resolution, looking very concerned with the appreciation of the career of nurses and health professionals and SNS in the region of Algarve. The question being asked is only one: where were the PCP...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u138	Next to them! You're not even going to the Algarve! They don't even show up!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u139	...and the Left Block, when they gave their hand to a government solution and approved six budgets of the Socialist Party? Oh, my God! [[Congrats from the CH.]] What did you do to value your careers? [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] Nothing! Ball, Mr. João Dias! Ball! And now they come here to seem that they are very concerned about health in Portugal, who are very concerned about nurses' careers! Lies, pure and harsh hypocrisy! At a time when they could be a solution to something, they could have done it, but they didn't do anything! And the five members of the Socialist Party, elected by the Algarve, where are they? What have they done to enhance the career of health professionals and support nurses in the Algarve? Not a word! I, if I were elected to the lists of the Socialist Party — God is free! -,... [[CH's laughs.]] ... by the district of Faro, I just had to do one thing: apologize to the algarves. I still thought Mr. Jorge Botelho would do this: "Sorry, for leaving you behind; apologize, for not having succeeded in valuing the careers of health professionals; apologize, for having voted against the abolition of tolls in A22;...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u140	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u141	... apologize, for giving way to the proposal for the construction of the new prison establishment of the Algarve ; forgive, for having voted against the requalification of the national road No 125 and of the national road No 124 ».
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u142	Excuse me, sir, but you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u143	I will finish, Mr. President. It was the least they could do: to apologize to the ravens, because they were deceived when they voted in the Socialist Party. on our part, on the side of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, we will do everything we can to value the Algarve, because tourism can only be of quality if it also has quality health. We won't give up! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u144	Now for an intervention by the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, I give the floor to Mrs Joana Cordeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the Regional Directorate of the Lighthouse of the Union of Portuguese Nurses, which here brings us this petition, and, on its behalf, all 4877 subscribers. This petition affects a determining matter for nurses and, in good rigour, not only for those in the Algarve, but for all nurses in the country. For the Liberal Initiative, the appreciation of nursing career is necessary and of the greatest relevance. We defend that it is essential to ensure that each service or unit providing health care assesses their staff needs, distributing tasks among the various health professionals, always with the focus on the user; that it is crucial to improve the quality standard of nursing care, particularly through the provision of specialized care; and that it is essential to ensure the number of nurses who respond to the needs of the population. Safe allocations exist and consist of ensuring that each nurse has an adequate number of people to provide them with the best care. And that's how safety is promoted in clinical practice. But, in order to be able to meet these secure allocations, there is a need for such a number of nurses, especially specialist nurses, who respond to the population's health needs. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the legislative amendments recommended by the petitioners and proposed by the initiatives of the Bloc, the PCP and the Free are about this important matter, and I believe that we are all of the same opinion: we need to correct the errors and injustices, which have been dragged down for years, in the nursing career. However, I repeat what we have already mentioned about other similar initiatives that have already been discussed here. It is important, of course, to know whether it is fair to read in relation to nurses in the Algarve region and not to all nurses in the country. Is it just a positive discrimination of these nurses, in the face of all others who perform their duties in the same circumstances and who are subject to the same injustices? Oh, my God! We are fully aware of all the specificities of the Algarve region, yes, but also of the difficulties of all other nurses, at various points in the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u146	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u147	As we have already mentioned, the Liberal Initiative considers that, in legislation on this subject, in this degree of detail, Parliament is replacing the Government, because this is the matter of executive power, which has to be the target of negotiation with the representative associations of the professionals in the sector. It is the responsibility of the Government, which has not been legislated in the last seven years only because of irresponsibility, lack of negotiating capacity and also because of incompetence.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u148	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u149	We understand that the insensitivity of this government to health professionals and, in this case, to nurses cannot be lightened by Parliament. Since the current Minister of Health has undertaken to resume these negotiations, we will not let him escape his obligation. For the Liberal Initiative, we'll be here to monitor. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u150	For a second intervention, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Jorge Botelho has the floor, which is available for 17 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u151	Mr President, I think I'll be very quick, just 17 seconds. I have nothing against the Portuguese nurses and much less against the Algarve, I have, in fact, everything in favor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u152	Don't notice!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u153	And the "all in favour" was the intervention which I did, by referring to concrete things, such as career recovery, progress, payment of the values of the points in debt and which, in fact, are the reason for the analysis of this petition. [[Protests by PSD Member Joana Barata Lopes and CH Member Pedro Pinto.]] I know well the reality of Algarve nurses — believe me, because I've even been in hospital — I know they work a lot, they deserve everything,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u154	But last week in the State Budget, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u155	... and deserve all the Members elected by the Algarve, inserted in this bench and in a socialist government that will do everything to convert careers, improve the attractiveness and remuneration of professionals. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u156	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u157	I'm done now, Mr. President. On the speech of Mr Pedro Pinto of the Arrival, I have to say that we, Members of the Socialist Party, elected by the Algarve, have another practice: we work more and we cry less. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u158	Take a good look! The crows are very happy! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u159	For a second speech, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, I give the floor to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u160	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Whoever had listened to this debate and judged the speeches by the decibels would say that the PSD and the Arrival should have major projects under discussion. Only not! They've got zero! Not one! They scream a lot, but they don't do it! And it's only a few days ago, why? By conscience! It's a problem of conscience! [[PSD and CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u161	Please, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, let the speaker...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u162	Be willing, Mr. President, I am not silent! [[PSD and CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u163	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares is speaking and will even use the floor because our Rules of Procedure give him that right. Please proceed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u164	They do not, nor do they let, but on the part of the Left Block, I assure you, do not prevent us from bringing up the debate solutions and proposals. Learn the nurses and nurses in the Algarve and Country that the Left Block has a bill for this debate, which, if approved, will make a difference in their lives. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u165	And what did they do in the time of management? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u166	Mrs. Members, having concluded this debate, we move to the fourth point of our agenda, which is that of the assessment of Petition No 229 / XIV / 2. a ( Tatiana Sofia Saraiva Zézola Baptista Bond et al.) — Immediate access to Lynparza® for eligible patients with breast cancer in Portugal, together with Resolution Projects Nos 10 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government put an end to the discrimination of trans people in cancer screenings for breast, colorectal and cervix cancer of the uterus, 113 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Access to innovative therapies for breast cancer, 248 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government ensure access to Lynparza® for eligible breast cancer patients in Portugal, and 295 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — For the encouragement of measures to recover breast cancer screening and the approval of Lynparza® ( Olaparib) therapy funding. There are already several of you. Members registered, the first being Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN. You have the floor, Mrs. Member, and, as you know, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u167	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting not only the petitioners, but also the EVITA — Association of Support for Disease Carriers in Genes Related to Heritage Cancer, which, with its action, allowed this Parliament to discuss today a scourge that reaches 6000 women and causes more than 1500 deaths in our country — breast cancer. The seriousness of this problem requires that this scourge be discussed not only in the perspective of treatment but, above all, in the prevention and the means that we make available to society for this purpose. Of course, it is essential that the Government ensure access to innovative therapies for breast cancer treatment, as is the case with Lynparza. Compared to chemotherapy, this type of therapy gives patients survival without progression of the disease for more than three months and also causes lighter side effects, thus ensuring more quality of life for patients. Only those who have already followed patients through this scourge know what the lack of treatment means that they can guarantee a more decent and quality life throughout the treatment. In addition to the treatment, it is essential that we talk about prevention. To this end, we must put an end to discrimination of the trans community in cancer screenings for not only breast cancer, but also colorectal and cervical cancer. Currently, the SiiMA Traces system (information system for managing the circuit of population screening programs) which makes the selection of users to be tracked, is based solely on the constant gender of civil identification. However, this criterion often excludes trans people who are formally identified with a gender, but who have other sex organs. A situation like this does not guarantee the prevention of cancer treatment and, above all, challenges the need for cross-cutting issues of sexual orientation, gender identity and expression and sexual characteristics, contained in the National Strategy for Equality and Non-Discrimination. Therefore, today, the NAP proposes to end this discrimination by creating an autonomous field, within the SiiMA Trails, and only accessible by the system, thus enabling health professionals to accompany users and signal those who have, in fact, a gender-based body different from the one in their civil identification. We are talking about proposals that guarantee the right of access to health, but also equality and non-discrimination in what is an absolutely fundamental right. That all people, without exception, have the right to health, constitutionally consecrated and effective in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u168	Mr Mariana Mortágua, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the 11 000 petitioners and by saying that this is not the first time that the Assembly of the Republic is debating access to certain medicines in Portugal, because it is also not the first time that we have faced the existence of medicines that are authorised by the European Medicines Agency and that access to them in Portugal is very difficult. The case that these petitioners and these petitioners bring us is an example of this. It is a medicine that could be used in the treatment of breast cancer, which oncologist doctors in Portugal want to use and recommend to their patients, but their use is not authorised by Infarmed ( National Medicines and Health Products Authority, IP ). That is, in practice, preventing a treatment that already exists, that the European Agency validates, that doctors want to use, but that in practice it takes time to reach those who need it. Recently, I said it was not the first time in Parliament to discuss the problems of access to therapeutic innovation, because this debate is about breast cancer, but above all it is about drug policy in Portugal and how it is organized. 2019 data say that in Portugal, the time to have access to therapeutic innovation is five times longer than the best European outcome, from 2015 to 2017. While in Germany, for example, it takes on average 119 days to introduce a new medicine to the market, in Portugal, this delay is 634 days, although we recognize that in the last 4 years 56 new medicines have been introduced into the Portuguese market. Between 2017 and 2018, Portugal was even one of the worst countries to introduce therapeutic innovation, leaving only Serbia and Lithuania and the opposite pole of countries such as Germany, Denmark or the United Kingdom. And we ask: why are these waiting times, why is this delay in introducing medicines that are recommended and approved in other countries in Portugal? What the report from the Portuguese Observatory of Health Systems tells us is that « there is an excessive interference in the immediate budgetary decision-making framework in access to innovation, resulting in an inefficient exercise of anticipation and forecasting of innovation cycles in critical areas of the health system ». Therefore, we have an interference of immediate budgetary decisions in the decision on which the treatments and which medicines are placed on the market. In order to increase access to therapeutic innovation and to make it no longer dependent on political moods or short-term budgetary decisions, the Left Block proposes that the health authorities — in particular the authorities of the medicinal product — make available, more rapidly, these innovative treatments and therapies, in particular in the case of breast cancer, which is what we are discussing today, and also proposes that a planning of the introduction and innovation cycles be carried out in Portugal, as a way to increase the speed in its authorisation, availability and sharing, when it comes to innovative, non-conditional drugs, clearly, short-term budgetary strategies, which have nothing to do with the rationality of therapeutic decisions. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u170	I now give the floor to Mrs Rita Matias for the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We could not begin this intervention without saying that it does not cease to be significant we receive today from those women, from those petitioners, a petition in which they ask for more days of life, when, even today, due to the lapse of the majority, we have seen the topic of drug-assisted death and euthanasia be delayed and postponed. Therefore, it is still significant that there is anyone here who wants to ask for more days of life. The second note that we could not forget is that we are talking about a matter of maximum seriousness and, once again, the NAP brings us its jokes and its gender jokes. We can read, in your proposal, that the NAP intends to ensure the inclusion of all people in cancer screenings for breast and cervix cancer, regardless of gender, but I have some news to give to Mrs. Deputy: there are two sexes — both female and male — and, therefore, even Mrs. Deputy comes with me to take tests on prostate and none of my colleagues on the bench...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u172	How do you know?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u173	He's going to take tests on the cervix. [[Cheers and laughs from the CH.]] As I said recently, the subject that we are called here today is very serious: the second cause of death in women is cancer, and breast cancer is the most common type. It is estimated that in our country, one in eight women will be affected by breast cancer, and these numbers have faces: they have the faces of our mother, our grandparents, our friends, our colleagues. Only in 2020, more than 7000 new cases of breast cancer were diagnosed and 1800 women lost their lives in the face of this disease. at this time, it is also important to say that, in 2020 and 2021, when the National Health Service adapted to the almost exclusive fight against covid-19, many diseases were devalued and moved on to the background. Thousands of Portuguese and Portuguese have seen their queries, searches and treatments be postponed and cancelled due to failure to respond. Only in presence consultations, there was a reduction in the order of 75 % and it is important to say that we are still far from reaching the numbers that were verified in the pre-covid period. It is estimated that, in 2021, more than 148 000 mammograms were to be performed and almost 2000 of the diagnoses of malignant neoplasty of female breast. But cancer does not look at circumstances, does not look at periods of chaos in the National Health Service or at the passage of folders between ministers. The incidence rate is developing and increasing rapidly. Therefore, at this time, the Government is specifically asking for a diagnosis of the current situation, realizing that the total number of medical acts that have been postponed or cancelled and that a project and recovery measures of breast cancer screening may be implemented. But we also remember that it is essential to invest in the quality of life of patients, presenting alternatives to traditional chemotherapy. It is urgent to invest in therapies that condition the disease's worsening, that raise survival rates and that can minimize adverse reactions, because this is called care and dignity.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u174	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u175	For this reason, we accompany more than 11,000 petitioners asking for access to this new therapy for eligible sick women. The clinical trials were positive, the introduction into the authorized market, but funding requires approval for each patient. The requests made by cancer doctors are all being denied by Infarmed, which overlaps with the medical opinions, the will of the patients and which condemns these women exclusively through chemotherapy, and we all know the violence and brutality of this therapy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u176	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u177	This is a way of saying that the government does not want to spend more money on minimizing pain and giving more quality of life to women, who only ask for more days of life to be with their loved ones. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u178	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u179	In a country with so much waste, with so many investments, we call on the State to fulfil its fundamental role in protecting the lives of its citizens, particularly at this time, the lives of women facing the great challenge of cancer. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u180	For the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Fernanda Velez has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u181	I'm sorry, Mr President, but I was making a signal to exercise the right to defend the honor of the NAP bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u182	I'm sorry, Mrs Fernanda Velez. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real asked for the word for a defense of honor, so you have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u183	Mr President, Mrs Rita Matias, there are limits to what is being defended in this House. The honourable Member has come to call a 'trap' proposal from the NAP which aims to safeguard the right to prevention and the right to health of trans people, is a limit that should not even be exceeded. If the honourable Member does not know, I have already sat in the hospital banks to accompany a family member of mine for being a victim of cancer and what I demand, in terms of dignity, for people who love me and are close to me, is the same dignity that all of us here, without exception, should demand for all people, whether they are trans people or not.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u184	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u185	And the fact that there is today a gap in the hospital system that makes trans people not have access to these treatments, in a preventive way, whether they like it or not, whether they agree or not, is something that, from the point of view of human dignity and the right to life — which you both come here to proclaim — should be at least consensual. It is that if they do not respect trans people, they respect at least trans cancer patients, who have every right to be treated and have the right to safe prevention, like anyone else. [[P.S., BE, and L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u186	I am going to give the floor to explain to Mrs Rita Matias, but I would like to recall, however, the following: in a very exceptional way and given the delicateness of the subject we are discussing, I gave the floor to Mrs Inês Sousa Real, as I have just said, when I should have given it to her at the end of this debate. But this matter, as I say, is of great sensitivity and I understood that it was appropriate to give you the floor. So I did, and now I also have to give Mrs Rita Matias the floor to give the explanations that I understand well. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u187	Mr President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, I do not know if you are reminded of an earlier President of the Assembly of the Republic who used to say that "the honour of the Members is not on paper". It is an appeal that I leave to Mrs Deputy, since she always tries to extend the little time available to try to generate some controversy with the Arrival. We are not going to spend much time meeting what the honourable Member has said, we find it very regrettable that she bears personal testimony — yes, more than populist, it is to be popular— but we say and reaffirm what we have said earlier: this is of the utmost seriousness and therefore we cannot follow this extremism and fundamentalism of the NAP that takes advantage of all matters that are of the utmost seriousness, in this case public health matters, to impose an ideological agenda that is perverse and that is precisely contrary to the health and dignity of Portuguese people. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u188	All right, all right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u189	Having passed this incident, I now give the floor to Mrs Fernanda Velez by the PSD Parliamentary Group. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u190	Mr President, I welcome you and I welcome all of you. Ladies and gentlemen. On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, I welcome all petitioners No 229 / XIV / 2. in particular the first subscriber, Tatiana Bond, for her courage, determination and commitment to defend the survival and quality of life of breast cancer patients. On the basis of this petition, more than 11 000 citizens request immediate access to Lynparza for eligible breast cancer patients. In addition to this petition, we also discussed legislative initiatives recommending to the Government, essentially, access to innovative therapies for various cancer diseases, as well as the creation of measures that increase screening of breast cancer, the most common type of carcinoma among women and which corresponds to the second cause of cancer death in women. We know that every year more than 7000 new cases of breast cancer are detected in Portugal — an average of about 19 new cases per day — and that close to 2000 women die among us with this disease. Because of the pandemic, 12 % of these cancers are diagnosed at more advanced stages. In fact, the Government itself acknowledged in the latest Annual Access Report to SNS, and I quote: « the screenings of population-based oncological diseases ( breast, cervix and colon and rectum) suffered the impact of the curvature 19(...) pandemic, effects which were still felt in 2021. Do not keep on seeking. ” It is also estimated that less than one third of Portuguese breast cancer patients have been screened prior to this disease and that less than 20 % have received social security support. Breast cancer has a high impact on society, not only because of its severity and frequency, but also because of the particular symbolism of the body that reaches, circumstances that naturally give a high complexity to political discussions, as is the case today. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, defending the quality of life of cancer patients is undoubtedly a priority for the PSD. And, with regard to access to innovative therapies, we have and we guide ourselves through very clear and well defined parameters. We reject any form of political instrumentation of cancer patients, as well as any other patients. We defend the right of access of cancer patients to therapies to be eligible and when they are effective in the treatment of the diseases in question. We also defend that therapies are given to them in good time—and not as they currently occur—because the Portuguese State takes a long time, in addition to the acceptable, to approve the participation of new drugs. It is important that these innovative medicines obtain a positive assessment in terms of the quality-cost-effectiveness relationship to which the competent authorities are responsible: INFARMED, in conjunction with the European Medicines Agency. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u191	For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, Mrs Lúcia Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u192	Mr President, I welcome you, as well as the ladies and gentlemen. Members, and on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, I congratulate the petitioners on the person of Tatiana Bond. I stress the draft resolution resulting from the petition under discussion, for immediate access to innovative therapy in the treatment of breast cancer, through olaparib, for patients eligible for breast cancer, for recovery of screenings and for the end of discrimination of trans people in cancer screenings of breast, colorectal and cervical cancer. In view of the use of olaparib in a metastatic context, I should like to make it clear that the same has been approved by Infarmed since January 2022 for patients with triple-negative breast cancer, although the additional benefit is not quantifiable, compared to comparators. With regard to other indications, financing decisions should be assessed prior to or by reference to an early access programme, in accordance with which they are public and are pre-defined. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is no doubt that in Portugal people who need different treatments receive us in SNS, oncology and other sectors. For example, I recall that at the level of drug policy, from January to December 2021, Infarmed concluded 65 drug innovation processes, with a growth of 11 % compared to 2020. It highlighted, for example, medicines for cystic fibrosis, particularly the most expensive medicine in the world, with a hospital selling price of almost 2 million euros. Even before approval, 17 authorisations were granted for access to this medicinal product. But it could also mention the free administration in the SNS of antipsychotic drugs; the increase in the participation of the vaccine against pneumococcal bacteria, for more than 65 years, with a participation of 69 %; the free exemption from psychopharmacists to people with mental illness admitted compulsively, who have the opportunity to continue treatment at home; and 87 % of health institutions that have the programme of dispensation of medicines of proximity. Despite all health policies that seek the best response from the SNS to the patient, perfection has not been achieved. The SNS has problems and difficulties, but it has strengths and evidence given and the Portuguese rely on the SNS, both for prevention, treatment and therapy. For the truth, I do not remember the Socialist Government having made cuts in the area of health for financial matters, contrary to those that went beyond the Memorandum of Understanding with the European Commission...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u193	I was missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u194	... and made cuts found in the OECD report of then, which mentioned cuts in spending with staff, concentration and rationalization of supply in health centres and hospitals of the SNS. And we cannot remain indifferent to the serious implications of these options. With regard to population-based cancer screening programmes, we recognize that, in the area of oncology, despite the constraints existing during the pandemic, the final 2021 data are positive and indicate: a recovery and expansion of population-based oncological screenings (breast, cervix and colorectal); recovery of oncology specialist consultations (the largest number of consultations ever) ; an increase in the number of patients operated at the level of oncological surgery; and the geographical coverage rate, by ACES (group of health centres), in the three cancer screenings is already 100 % throughout the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u195	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u196	In view of its added value, population-based oncological screening programs have evolved significantly in recent years, with the expansion of geographical coverage, the increase in the number of users tracked and the significant improvement of flow rates. In the context of the transgender citizen, the cancer screening program of colon and rectum is excluded from all this discussion. With regard to breast and cervix screening, clinical trials do not include transgenerous individuals, so it is not possible to infer which cost-benefit ratio justifies intervention for this population. In a systematic way, and through non-individual screening methodologies, it is considered that the development of the solutions necessary to safeguard access to health care by trans people should be framed in the National Strategy for Equality and Non-Discrimination Portugal + Equally and properly integrated within the broader scope of promoting access to health under conditions of equality and non-discrimination. Ladies and gentlemen. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we recognize the importance that the Socialist Government attaches to the prevention of diseases, even because the best strategy to control health spending is undoubtedly the commitment to prevention. Thus, for a better commitment in the promotion of health and prevention of the disease, the Government has a State Secretary to ensure the applicability of all the well-being that exists in Portugal over time. Many experts argue that we need to be more concerned with health than with disease, so our challenge is permanent. From 2016 to today, the SNS budget services have been strengthened...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u197	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u198	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I was saying, the SNS budget services have been strengthened by 60% and we have 20 more professionals. But needs require continued investment and accountability and the involvement of all. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u199	For the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative, Mrs Joana Cordeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u200	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the more than 11 000 subscribers to this petition, which bring this important issue to the debate. This issue, the incomprehensible delay in access to innovative therapies, concerns the Liberal Initiative, and for this reason we have questioned the Minister of Health, and again we did so in this last hearing on the State Budget. Moreover, in the previous legislation, we argue that adequate, transparent and robust procedures must be carried out in the cost-benefit assessment of various therapies, and that these evaluation processes cannot be dragged for years. They have to be speedy, because it is not legitimate to leave the lives of hundreds of people in suspense, with a limited life expectancy or who live with their quality of life affected or strongly compromised. It is not acceptable not to decide or decide only when the pressure of public opinion puts the subject on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u201	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u202	Regardless of the pathology, excessive delay and bureaucracy in evaluations of innovative therapies can cost lives and this is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u203	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u204	In this respect, the data indicate that Portugal is behind the European average, it is 31. the place, in 39 countries. While in Germany an oncological patient waits for about 121 days for access to innovative medicines in Portugal, it has to wait 723 days. [[Protests by PS MP Maria Antonia de Almeida Santos.]] However, if on equity in access to innovative medicines in the European area, the President of Infarmed said that the teachings of the pandemic can be used in the proper sense and if the legislation provides 180 days for Infarmed to respond to requests for approval, it is not understood why these processes continue to drag on for so long. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the petition and the initiatives currently under discussion focus on cancer and, in particular, breast cancer. We will obviously follow all initiatives, but for us, in the Liberal Initiative, the approach has to be much more comprehensive and not based on the pathology or, much less, on the basis of the media force that each case can have. All patients deserve dignity. Everyone must have quick and agile access to what better science gives us. Of course, we realize that most of the time we are faced with extremely expensive drugs for the state. But we ask: Is true investment in health not investment in the quality of life of sick people? Is it not to assure them of greater life expectancy, dignity in the disease or that they continue to be active in their lives? Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government still seems to have doubts about the urgency of correcting these totally unjustifiable delays, but the Liberal Initiative does not have. Patients and their families deserve all the investment needed to improve their living conditions, to have strength and to live with hope. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u205	For the PCP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u206	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Our first word goes to the petitioners and to the Petitioner who has come to ask the Assembly of the Republic for immediate access to the Olaparib. in this sense, we mean that the PCP understands the reasons that lead to this petition here. Of course, every user who sees their life threatened, whether by an oncological situation or another, seeks to find the best solutions and all the hope they can find, search and walk to it. I leave a word, too, for health professionals, because we necessarily have to value those who struggle every day to find the best therapeutic solutions, the best options, to help and allow our users to have access to therapy and get quality of life, and above all rely on their ability to decide. But we cannot fail to mention the whole process of introducing drugs in our country and in the community. First, I refer to what language is used, particularly the language of innovation. We need to look very carefully at this language. The language of innovation is induced by the pharmaceutical industry itself, so that it allows and allows both users and health professionals to use their medicines, which often have nothing to be innovative, because they are not new molecules, are only conjugations of existing molecules. The pharmaceutical industry only wants to do what is of its nature. Their concern is not the health and well-being of the populations, their concern is the profit and therefore market prospects are underlying research and research.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u207	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u208	in this sense, we cannot fail to say that we understand and are on the side of those who advocate access to more appropriate treatments, whether to new drugs, or to new therapies, or to new technologies, provided they have scientific evidence and benefits in the clinical context. But we can't, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, stop worrying about the position in which the State can remain: hostage of the pharmaceutical industry. That is a danger that we cannot fail to guard against. We believe that this House has the responsibility to introduce measures and in particular to make all negotiations, documents and evaluations more transparent and public without confidentiality limits.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u209	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u210	It has the responsibility to demand the unequivocal demonstration of the usefulness of these medicines and, in cases where the results that have been sold to us — often sell « cat per hare » — then there is a refund of the value paid to the SNS. Mrs. Members, I think it is cautious, on our part, not to make the Assembly of the Republic a resonance box of the pharmaceutical industry, but to make, yes, the intransigent defense of the interests of our users and their quality of life. [[PCP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u211	To speak on behalf of the Free, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u212	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: According to data from the Portuguese Cancer League, of the year 2020, we recorded in that year 7000 new cases of breast cancer—which do not only affect women—and of these 7000 new cases, we had to regret the death of 1800 women. This in a year of pandemic and with the interference that the pandemic caused in relation to the early diagnosis and treatment of people with this disease. It is therefore a public health problem, which is all less so, with high incidence and high mortality. And it is not a problem that we cannot at least mitigate or combat, through early diagnosis, and, in advanced forms or metastatics of the disease, through therapies that allow us to earn months of life, months of survival to these and, in particular, to these patients. Portugal is part of a system, which is the system of the European Medicines Agency, which enables it to gain scale, speed and scientific certification in a way that other countries do not have the same agility. The important thing is that, on the national side, of Infarmed, of the Ministry of Health, we can monitor the efficiency and scale gains that this system allows us, so that we can make a wise decision to facilitate patients access to these therapies. This is what this initiative aims to do, and this is what the Free will also supports.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u213	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Inês Barroso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u214	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The petition and the four draft resolutions we are discussing today recommend to the Government the implementation of recovery measures to carry out breast cancer screenings, the agileization of responses by the drug authorities, whenever the evidence of medical evaluation points to new therapies and the financial sharing of Lynparza medicine, composed of Olaparib, a powerful human enzyme inhibitor that causes carcinoma, with national marketing authorisation. Now, let's do an exercise on the list of side effects of chemotherapy, just to remember some: hair loss, inflammation of the mouth and throat, nausea, vomiting, anorexia, diarrhoea, hormonal imbalance, anxiety and many others. As for the medicine we are referring to, Lynparza, its potential seems to us to be evident: clinical trials with olaparib identify the increase in patients' survival time in three months, without having to resort to chemotherapy, being subject to their side effects. The fact that it is an oral medication is undoubtedly a greater value for patients, with a clear impact on their quality of life. The previous assessment of the medicinal product for human use in hospital in 2018 concluded, and I quote, « that there was added therapeutic value for Lynparza and, in the economic assessment, cost-effective values were associated with the medicinal product, with results of budgetary impact considered acceptable ». So, what justifies the non-participation of this medicine? Why does Infarmed decline, to the detriment of chemotherapy? Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, is it not more important to invest in therapy that does not cause suffering to the patient than to insist on financial priorities? For the PSD, the defense of public health and the quality of life of people will always be the priority. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u215	To intervene, you have the floor of Mrs. Rita Matias of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u216	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The intervention of the Socialist Party was indeed full of beautiful words, but in the end, translating into simple words, Infarmed will continue to deny the demands of doctors and patients to access this new therapy and, therefore, women with breast cancer will continue with themselves and their own. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u217	Therefore, we can only say that this can only be a country to the contrary because it can invest EUR 4 million in a new fleet for TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport )...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u218	What are you saying? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u219	... or, for example, in 11 drivers for Mr. Prime Minister, who also has a huge car fleet at your disposal, but can't spend another 1 cent with those who ask for more days for their life. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u220	And this is due to the fact that the Government and the seat of the Socialist Party are only in a hurry to legislate when it comes to legislating for death, because it is the logic of utilitarianism: the citizen serves only while producing and generating wealth, when he does not generate any wealth, when he is a burden, then he is removed and can die. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Therefore, the only word we want to leave is that our solidarity, the solidarity of this bench, is with all the grieving families who, unfortunately, did not have a quick response and lost their families and, above all, with all those women who now face cancer. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u221	We are thus at the end of point 4 of our agenda. We move on to point 5, which consists of the assessment of Petition No 237 / XIV / 2. a (Vítor Manuel de Magalhães Miranda Neves et al.) — They call for the promotion of a legislative change in the counting of prescription deadlines together with, in general, Bills Nos 369 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Increases the limitation deadlines for the crimes of falsification of documents and fiscal crimes and provides for new causes of suspension or interruption in the counting of the limitation periods of the criminal procedure and 370 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Amendment of the deadlines for prescribing sexual crimes against minors and a set of crimes of corruption. To speak, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u222	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We welcome the initiative of the nearly 200 000 petitioners who today allow us to discuss the issue of the prescription of criminal proceedings, in particular that which, in a rule of law, seems to us of high relevance and seriousness, and is related to the so-called white collar crimes and the lengthy process to which we have often witnessed, without, indeed, there are structural reforms that will put an end to this moroncy. With regard to the guarantee of fundamental rights and freedoms, the prescription of criminal proceedings is taken as a constitutional value and even as an extension of rights of the European Convention on Human Rights. But in Portugal, a certain period of the practice of a crime, criminal proceedings are no longer possible. In this regard, one year ago, this House approved a set of laws which complied with the provisions of the National Anti-Corruption Strategy 2020-2024 and amended the standard for the limitation deadlines for the criminal procedure. Although this amendment is of great relevance, it is still not enough, since it leaves out some instrumental crimes to the practice of corruption crimes, a scourge that steals, daily and hourly, thousands of euros to the safes of our country, as is the case, for example, of falsification of documents and fiscal crimes related to the phenomenon of corruption. In spite of this, it is not expected, as the Strategy itself recommends, that reasons be laid down for the suspension of the limitation periods which are incompatible with procedural delaying actions, which constantly push those who are able to make use of them. This opens the door to dilating measures that can delay criminal proceedings and harm the judicial system as a whole and, in itself, involve the filing of a criminal procedure. 73% of prosecutors and criminal inspectors understand that prescription periods are not long enough for corruption-related crimes. If we look at the lack of resources and structural means of justice, we understand that proposals such as those presented by the NAP today, so that fiscal crimes, related or instrumental crimes to the crime of corruption, by their nature, are seen to have increased their limitation period, regardless of the abstract criminal framework for the crimes in question, as a solution. So this House knows how to follow these proposals and fight, more seriously and effectively, corruption, that scourge that undermines our democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u223	To speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u224	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today it is evidence that the deadlines for prescription in Portugal are, in their own system, outdated. We simply go through some of the news of the last few days or weeks and we see : « Suspected contracts in Montalegre in ways to prescribe », « Duarte Lima crimes in ways to prescribe », « 40 BES crimes ( Banco Espírito Santo ) may fall by land at risk of prescribing », « Ricardo Salgado crimes, all at risk of prescribing ». It is not necessary to go much further to realize that it is necessary to change what has already been changed in the last decade, but that it is not enough from the point of view of research. The project of the Arrival aims to increase the maximum limits of this type of crime in the field of prescription, because it is the very justice it has requested, year after year, more time for cases where special complexity or economic or social harm require a longer investigation, despite the causes of suspension that are already provided for in the law. The project that the NAP presents to us goes in the right direction, in our perspective, only with a nuance: it is that, when it comes to instrumental crimes, it does not materialize them and the crimes of falsification of documents and abuse of trust, for example, they could be left alone with limitation periods of 15 years, violating the entire system of the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Portuguese Criminal Code. This would mean that, for example, a crime of abuse of trust, whose criminal procedure depends on complaint, would have a limitation period of 15 years, which makes no sense to anyone who understands the subject at least. We can't make any changes outside of the law, but the point is the right one. In fact, there is some crime that, as long as it is defined as instrumental, makes sense that it can see its limitation deadlines extended, so that we do not have the whole main process in question because of the instrumental crime. On the other hand, and to conclude, the project of the Arrival goes in a sense that it has long been worth the power to deliver to this House, which is one day we can discuss the imprecisibility of some crimes. Today, in Germany, there are crimes that have no prescription—crimes such as murder, terrorism or crimes against humanity never prescribe. We should learn this lesson with the Germans, since we have learned so many others, and some even wrong: human life never prescribes, human life has no time. [[Congrats from the CH.]] If I may, Mr President, who commits acts of terrorism, who rapes and then kills, who makes pedophilia in series and never gives up doing so, there is no other solution for his life than being persecuted all his life by the State until he is found and brought to justice. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u225	To intervene, on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, you have the floor of Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u226	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members :Like what happened in the past legislature, we again discuss projects very similar to those discussed in this House that invite us to reflect again on the need, or not, to change the deadlines for prescribing the criminal procedure in relation to very specific crimes, such as sexual crimes against minors, corruption and fiscal crimes. But we know why we have this discussion again. Mrs. Members, the need to delay prescription deadlines is very simple to explain: just look at the state of justice in Portugal. We have talked several times over in recent months about the laxity of judicial proceedings, which are endlessly dragged by the judicial system and generate a feeling of impunity and injustice, feeling that the State Budget approved in this House last week has not been corrected or reversed. The delay and suspension of the limitation deadlines cannot be seen as the last line of action and the first resort of criminal policy of a slow judicial system, subject to such slowness, is further dragged, with the extension of maximum limitation periods. The solution would, yes, pass by the existence of swift and effective justice, capable of efficiently investigating all and any kind of crime. But for this purpose to be met, the Public Prosecutor's Office must be endowed with and effectively manage the material, financial and human resources, while the courts must be able to judge, with certainty and with certainty, cases that arrive to them. Thus, the Liberal Initiative considers that a possible extension of the limitation deadlines should be confined to certain crimes, restricted and specific, such as the cases of sexual crimes against minors and crimes of corruption. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if you think that these changes will still apply to processes and arguments that have already been set up, because of course they are not.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u227	That's obvious!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u228	As for the NAP project, we recommend that they revisit it, after a further study on the basic concepts of civil law and criminal law, because it seems to us that they will have been misled, during this competition of law enforcement « a meter», because, with regard to suspension of deadlines, the concept of suspension means that it begins and ends, is subject to a limited time period, and that is not what the NAP foresees. That is why, in our view, it is not fair, nor even moral, to suspend criminal procedural deadlines without this limitation, on the ground that we approve suspensions of proceedings forever.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u229	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u230	As for the rest, and because we have talked a lot about health today and because our justice needs intensive care, we will approve everything that is not excessive and disproportionate and effectively solve these processes. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u231	Mr Joana Mortágua, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u232	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that the main arguments on this debate have already been put forward. Prescription is, as has been said, an extension of human rights. No one can be forever condemned, no one can be eternally suspected. Of course, this principle of non-eternal guilt — any Catholic will agree with us — depends on this non-eternal confidence that justice can find, judge and punish criminals within a reasonable time, so that they are not eternally persecuted. I therefore believe that, when we discuss the deadlines for prescription, we are, in fact, in certain matters, such as corruption, discussing the failures of justice or the perception of the slowness of justice. And that has much more to do with the lack of judicial resources, the lack of research resources, the size of the processes than precisely with the deadlines for prescription. Does that not mean that they cannot be discussed, but that it would be useful for us to judge, perhaps virtually, a Ricardo Salgado of this life, 50 years later or even after the criminal or one who practiced or committed corruption be dead?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u233	If he's dead, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u234	It would be of no use to hide, with the extension of the deadlines for corruption, a problem of slow justice. There is another dimension of the limitation deadlines that has to do with sexual crimes. Here is another question, which not only has to do with the slowness of justice, but also with the way the complaint is made and how the denunciation and the complaint process acts against the victim and the difficulty that it is to denounce a crime such, and some of these sexual crimes are public crimes, others are not. in this case, we judge ourselves, we must discuss the time limits for the prescription of sexual crimes, because it is common, as it was now in church cases, to come to know sexual crimes that were not known before — does not have to do with other crimes that were known before, but which they prescribed, they were simply not known — and that, when justice becomes aware of them or when the victim has the courage to make the complaint, they have already prescribed. With regard to the violation, there is a petition with more than 100 000 subscribers about the consecration of rape as a public crime, and we believe that it is within the framework of this petition and legislative initiatives that appear from the various parliamentary groups that we must also consider the deadlines for prescribing sexual crimes, whether they are committed against minors or not. It does not seem to us that the extension of the limitation deadlines alone solves the problems of justice in Portugal, which, unfortunately, are much deeper and much more complex and generate a feeling of impunity which, once again and unfortunately, is not given by time, is given by the inefficiencies of justice in certain matters, such as corruption. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u235	To speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Mónica Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u236	I would like to congratulate the President and the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The 19 061 petitioners are welcomed for the exercise of a right of citizenship, which shows the public's disapproval of the justice system. As far as the debate in plenary is concerned, they call for changes to the deadlines for prescriptions, increasing them, and also for the end of the legal cluster. The petition entered on 19 April 2021, i.e. before the approval in the Assembly of the Republic, unanimously, of Act No 94 / 2021 of 21 December, which provides on the National Strategy for Combating Corruption. in this law, due consideration was given to the increase in criminal frameworks and their limitation deadlines, in accordance with the Penal Code and related legislation, and the result appears to us that responds to the petitioners' requests. By doing here an exercise of the deadline of prescription, I will give the example of the crime of corruption, so that it is clear what are the deadlines in force in Portugal. I think this is important, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Let us see: the crime of corruption and the economic-financial crime generally have a normal limitation period of 15 years, a period which interrupts with the constitution of the defendant, i.e., returns to the beginning—and interruption is different from suspension! This period shall be suspended for three years with the deduction of the charge and shall also stop, which means that the limitation period shall return to the beginning. Only the prescription occurs if the normal period of 15 years, plus half — seven and a half — has elapsed, discounted the three years of suspension with the accusation, i.e. 25 and a half years later, more than a quarter of a century. This is for the ordinary time limit of the prescription. But if a sentencing sentence, as is the rule, and there is recourse, add five more years, which makes 30 and a half years. If the process is declared to be of special complexity, as is the rule in this type of crime, it adds five more years, which results in 35 years and means of prescription. If there is an appeal to the Constitutional Court, but no special complexity is declared, they also add five more years, which also gives 35 and a half years. And if there is recourse to the Constitutional Court and the case is of special complexity, the limitation period increases by another 10 years, which amounts to 45 and a half years. It is good that anyone who likes to appeal to the Constitutional Court of a dilatory file should be aware of this. Finally, if the defendant is declared customary, i.e. if there is a declaration of customaryity, the procedure may suspend for another 15 years the normal limitation period, which gives the incredible sum of 60 and a half years. These are the deadlines we have, and the causes of suspension, interruption and declaration of customaryity are applicable to all crimes, including sexual offences. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is no room to further increase these deadlines, already so long, and which are intolerable in the light of our Constitution, which provides that everyone has the right to obtain a decision in a reasonable time and through a fair process, that the judicial procedures must be characterized by speed and priority, and that all the defendant is presumed innocent until the transit in judgment of the sentence of condemnation, and must be judged in the shortest term compatible with the defence guarantees. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot reward the inertia of the justice system, further increasing the deadlines for prescription and making crimes impracticable, making a draft of the Constitution and condemning civil death and the loss of peace that is entangled in the evils of a'sufficient' and ineffective justice. A justice, for it to be done, must be speedy and processed in good time, under the penalty of serving neither the accused nor the offended nor society in general.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u237	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u238	The petitioners also ask for the end of the legal cluster and for each penalty to be added. However, with the legal cluster, what is intended to punish the criminal officer not only by the facts that he practices, individually considered, but also — and fundamentally — by the whole of these facts in terms of the overall dimension and severity of the criminal conduct of the agent, i.e. by putting together the criminal facts and the character of the agent. The rules for the punishment of the crime contest are marked—and well—by our Constitution and anchored in the principle of the dignity of the human person, which is also the pillar in which the Portuguese legal-penal system is based. This is worth saying that there is a ceiling beyond which the legal cluster does not go, which is the 25 years of concrete maximum penalty. Finally, recalling that the PSD has fought for a reform of justice, which fights intolerable laziness—that society no longer accepts, as we see in this petition! — reforming this which can never happen by increasing deadlines, as it would even worsen the paralysis that fats in justice, which is'slow, slow, halt'. And, Mr. André Ventura, human life never prescribes, so there can be no crimes. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u239	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u240	You now have the floor to Mrs Cláudia Santos of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u241	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I greet the petitioners and would begin by saying that, at first sight, extending the limitation deadlines of the criminal procedure seems a good idea, since, with this, we extend the period during which the State can exercise its punitive claim and thus extending the limitation deadlines, it seems that we are combating impunity. However, we distance ourselves from the draft law of the Arrival and the draft law of the NAP, because it seems to us that only at first sight is it a good idea to thus extend the deadlines for the prescription of the criminal procedure, for two reasons which seem obvious to me. First reason: these bills deal with problems that no longer exist. When Mr Ventura recently listed a set of processes in which he referred to the existence of prescription, he was referring to cases for facts that occurred before March 2011,... [[CH Member's Protests André Ventura.]] ... when the new legal regime, resulting from the 2010 anti-corruption package, came into force, which extended the limitation deadlines for the criminal procedure to 15 years. Last year, at the end of 2021, we approved a new anti-corruption package and we again extended deadlines for the prescription of criminal proceedings for crimes related to corruption.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u242	That's what I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u243	That is, these projects deal with problems that no longer exist. Today, the maximum time limit for the prescription of crimes of corruption — some of which are punishable by imprisonment for up to three years — is 15 years, which is the time limit for the crime of qualified murder. With the suspensions and interruptions, there is a maximum limitation period of 22 years and a half — the normal period increased by half. Therefore, these projects deal with problems that no longer exist, because of the changes that have been introduced by the anti-corruption packages. The second difficulty that leads us to distance ourselves from these projects is fundamental: we do not want criminal justice that takes longer, we want more efficient criminal justice. And we all know that an investigation that lasts 5, 10 or 15 years is not an investigation that leads to the discovery of material truth. I will no longer speak on the issue of the protection of fundamental rights of people, who during these years are all lives frozen or lives destroyed, I will speak on the rights of victims. We all know that long investigations lead to the loss of freshness of proof and the consequence is either an unfair condemnation or is more likely an absolve after the victim has suffered damage associated with a process that will end in a way that leads to more suffering. Contribute to longer criminal justice does not protect the community, criminal justice is discredited and surely does not protect the victims. So this is not the way we stand for. All these projects refer to crimes that are of priority investigation by the Judicial Police. What we think is that research should be more efficient and this presupposes investment in the media. in this sense, on the State Budget for 2023 said the National Director of the Judicial Police who has a budget that dignifies the institution and goes to meet the future, which will allow more complex investigations to be concluded more quickly and that is what we want. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u244	Mrs Alma Rivera from the PCP now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u245	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we naturally greet the petitioners. I begin by saying that in this country there is indeed a difference in speed in criminal justice. When it comes to stacks of chickens, criminal luggage, there is rarely a prescription and this problem arises. As far as the so-called white collar crimes, economic and financial crime are concerned, the fact is that it is at the disposal of those who can afford to pay a whole stream of dilatory records to which it is possible to resort, in the hope that the prescription will happen. And in many circumstances, it really does happen. Objectively, this is a problem. After the populist and demagogic impulses with which these discussions are often faced, the truth is, objectively, there is a socio-economic distinction, a distinction based on class, which differentiates the way criminal justice, and justice in general, comes to certain types of crime and criminals. For the PCP, there are two dimensions in which the solution should be discussed. On the one hand, there is an adjustment that can happen—in spite of the changes that have already been actually introduced—and must be made in relation to the limitation deadlines, especially this type of crime that has just been mentioned, which none of the projects under discussion effectively touches, because they are not dedicated to these criminal processes that touch the most powerful, those who have everything and can all. On the other hand, it is necessary to pay attention to this systematic coherence and to safeguard expectations for the realization of justice that would be cheated with false solutions. Secondly — and perhaps the real decisive issue — is the need to ensure greater effectiveness of criminal investigation. This must be effectively faster, faster, more effective. It is not acceptable for a banker or a speculator to use sophisticated means, for example, computers, travel offshore, make the circulation of capital all over the world, which in 5 minutes can hide many million euros, but at the same time the Judicial Police, the Public Ministry, the courts need for years to work with limited means and resources, often obsolete, to call to justice these same people. We conclude by adding that there is a need to improve the means of international cooperation in matters where it is not possible to take action against white collar crime without such cooperation. But it is not worth losing ourselves in great speeches if we do not fight for the end of the files that are used, not only the procedural ones, but even the instruments that the law provides, for example the existence of offshore or other figures, such as the golden visas, subjects in which the PCP always insists, but that the convergences of the custom continue to preserve. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u246	For an intervention, Mr Ventura has now given the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u247	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I think it was important for you to make a point. First of all, the fact that there is unprescriptibility has nothing to do with Catholics or non-Catholics, because, in fact, the countries of the world where there is the impreciability of crimes are countries, even of the greatest Christian and Catholic pendant. That has nothing to do with it. Nor do I understand, Mrs Alma Rivera, what they have to do with visasgold with the prescription of crimes, honestly.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u248	Oh, you want a drawing? Oh, my God! Don't you know? Don't you know what money laundering is? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u249	We're trying to start mixing everything. Mrs Deputy uses the old Chinese tactic, which is to move a little bit into something to keep everything in it, which is to say that « the PCP washes its hands from there ». They speak in prescription of crimes, pedophilia, corruption, seen gold, offshore, etc. But change the law, it's still, that's where it's still. It's the PCP habit.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u250	It's confusing!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u251	Let's see if we understand each other. Can we say that this isn't a problem now? We can.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u252	Does he deny money laundering? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u253	And so I warned that in the NAP project there was a lack of reference to the « instrumentality» of the crime or the fact that the crime is connected or not. And that's settled, as I said. But let's see if we understand each other. We're part of the International Criminal Court — are we or aren't we? Oh, my God! — and, at the International Criminal Court, Mr. Members — I will read, because perhaps this sometimes becomes difficult — it is considered that there is no time limit for prescription. What the hell, we're part of the International Criminal Court! We're going to end this thing that we're very humanist and blah, blah, blah and it's 20 years and 30 years. In the instances in which we are part, the prescription of crimes is not considered. We may be incarcerated here to say « We are right», but it is not so... In fact, I will say more, in English law, that I think no one will say that it is a non-humanist law, the rule is that there is no prescription, I repeat, the rule is no prescription, because the law statute and the common law have no prescription rules. We have invented the prescription in continental systems. This is historically seen and understood, it's not worth inventing. In the most advanced Anglo-Saxon systems there is no prescription of crimes in some cases. So we can give the conversation we want at home, and so, that's the 20 years, the 30 years, the 10 years, the 5 years, but what people know is they see every day of crimes they're prescribing, they've been 10, 15, 20 or 30 years. And what they ask is: what is worth this conversation that prescription does not matter and that the victim cannot be persecuted forever? Let's see: yes, for me a pedophile can be pursued forever.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u254	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u255	Repeat : forever! I have no doubt of that! [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Protests by PCP MP Alma Rivera.]] It can be pursued forever, forever.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u256	It's in the inks for justice!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u257	And those who have attacked and destroyed — and continue to destroy — the Portuguese State can also be persecuted forever. I am not sorry for them staying with the sight of them concerned and destroyed, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u258	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u259	That doesn't really bother me. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Honestly, I'm not too worried that Dr. Ricardo Salgado can't sleep tonight! [[PCP protests.]] I mean, I'm not worried about anything; I'm worried about zero! I have seen him here in Parliament enjoying with us and with the Members. Therefore, I am not concerned that anyone who stole the country has his vision concerned and is persecuted for justice. In the most advanced systems of the world there is no prescription of crimes. I challenge anyone here in this House to show the opposite.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u260	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u261	In the most advanced countries in the world, legally, including in the countries that are the inspiration of our Constitution and the inspiration of our criminal law, as in Germany, there are crimes that are impossible. The best teachers of criminal law in the world, some of them, defend the non-prescription of crimes. That's the truth. They can do the rounds they want, but that's the truth that's clear as water. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u262	I now give the floor to Mr Rui Tavares for a speech on behalf of the Free House.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u263	Mr. President and Mr. Members: Our criminal law is not, fortunately — and is not by constitutional principle — revenge, so there are deadlines for prescription and they must be proportionate.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u264	The German one is not either!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u265	It is clear that there are crimes that are so serious that we should ask ourselves what the limitation period they must have is. It is also clear that if we are part of the International Criminal Court and if for crimes against humanity there is no time limit, that means that, in such cases, our right already recognizes it. However, what we should think about is the message that we pass on to the victims, to the criminals themselves and to the judicial system. For the victims, what we certainly have to visit is the deadlines—often too short! — for complaints, particularly in cases such as sexual abuse of minors, where people take years or decades to be in a position to complain. For the criminal, there is no criminal in the world who is committing a crime and thinking, "Wait there, this prescribes in 15 years or 20 years? If it's 20 years from now, I don't commit, if it's 15 years from now, I'm already! » There is no! For the judicial system, the message that we have to pass is: speed, more means and all kinds of measures that the Free has just presented through proposals for budgetary amendment. The wrong message is to say: « Prescribe slowly, so it may take longer to judge ». It's exactly the wrong message! In other words, criminal populism often leads us on the path of "letting go" and not judging crimes. First of all, we must think of the victims in extending the deadlines for the complaint and not of a kind of punitive justice that, fortunately, is not ours! [[CH Member's Protests André Ventura.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u266	You now have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Cláudia Santos of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u267	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In Germany, crimes of corruption are subject to a limitation period that is no longer longer than ours.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u268	But the murder, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u269	Anyway, what I wanted to point out is that exactly one year ago and a week ago we joined in this room to approve an anti-corruption package that introduced profound changes in our anti-corruption model. There was only one parliamentary group that did not participate in this solution: the arrives. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u270	And it's been a while!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u271	Therefore, the arrival brings today a bill that aims to solve problems that are already solved, proposing an extension of prescription deadlines, but it was the only party that did not participate in the collective effort that all other parliamentary groups did, at the end of the past legislature—just one year ago—to approve an anti-corruption package, which extended the limitation deadlines,... [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] ... created solutions of premium law, aggravated the penalties applicable to administrators and managers of commercial companies, created a criminal procedural statute for legal persons and created ancillary penalties for holders of political office and high public officials who determine their ineligibility and impossibility of appointment for very significant periods of time, if they are convicted of crimes of corruption.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u272	And it's going very well! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u273	All this was done without it. But we are — I think — all very proud because, at the end of the past legislature, when it was possible to lower our arms and do nothing, because the oppositions plunged the Budget,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u274	Ah, the problem was the budget lead? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u275	... the Government, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group and the PSD's Parliamentary Group — Justice be done to the Rui Rio PSD, of the past legislature — joined and approved the anti-corruption package that contributes very effectively to the fight against this unacceptable illegal practice. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u276	Mrs. Members, we are thus finishing point 5 of our agenda and moving to point 6, which consists of the assessment of Petition No 262 / XIV / 2. a (Mónica Alexandra de Matos Gomes et al.) — By defending the freeness of school textbooks in all kinds of teaching in the forms of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, together with, in general, the Bills No. 321 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Determines the universality of the freeness of school textbooks for all students of compulsory education, 368 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — For equality in the availability of school textbooks and 373 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Extension of the free provision of school textbooks to all students in compulsory education who attend private and cooperative education ( third amendment to Law No 47 / 2006 of 28 August ). Mr. Gabriel Pitha Ribeiro, from the Czech Republic, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u277	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the petition for the defense of the freeness of school textbooks, which I greet in the person of Mónica Matos Gomes, and the draft laws of the Arrival, the Liberal Initiative and PSD converge in the defense of the grant of free school textbooks in compulsory education to all students of public education, private education and cooperative education. The projects presented today mark a clear border with the PS, the PCP and the Left Block, because the left imposes the exclusive benefit only for public school students. First conclusion: the left is used by the State as a weapon of war against the autonomy of society. In its diversity, those who take right must know that without a strong and autonomous society in the relationship with the state, freedom dies, democracy dies, economic dynamism dies. But only the Arrival knows that this is achieved to every generation, separating education, which is prerogative of the family, of teaching, which is prerogative of the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u278	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u279	Second conclusion: an isolated policy for school textbooks, even if fair, becomes the enemy of a quality school, without the reform of education. A strategic commitment to combat the scourge of indiscipline, bureaucracy and facilitation in evaluations or serious waste of public money in education is essential. We also have a duty to defend intransigently national examinations. Portugal impoverishs because the right left the public school in the hands of socialists, communists and bloggers. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Third conclusion: investing in school textbooks requires teaching truth, science and justice. in this Parliament, the leader of the Socialist Party bench stands out for never giving in to the right of socialists to impose who is and who is not a democrat, which is the good right and which is the bad right,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u280	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u281	...who is and who is not racist, xenophobic or populist. [[Congrats from the CH.]] When our identity is imposed from the inside, when someone thinks that he can decide autocratically what individuals and collectives are, that is called symbolic violence, that is called identity terrorism and, on the limit, is called mental violation of others. [[Congrats from the CH.]] There is no better definition of the Socialist Party. That is why the Socialist Party wants the discipline of citizenship and development. [[Risos from PS member Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias, his socialism left my Africa poor and violent as never before, with post-colonial civil wars that killed millions. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr President, your socialism continues not to allow school textbooks to teach what African families like me know and what thousands and thousands of Portuguese families also know: there were women and children raped, people burned alive, bodies torn, people held without guilt, people expropriated and expelled from their homes and lands from one day to another, because they are Portuguese and because they are white. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Half a million people living in Africa! The origin of this regime was written with blood, misery and falsification of history, responsible for the pathological functional and depressive deviation of the collective memory of Portuguese. Mr. Deputies, I and my African family had to live in a barracks in the Jamor Valley in Lisbon, and I had to start working on the works, carrying massive buckets, very new. [[Congrats from the CH.]] But I never complained about the Portuguese, on the contrary. What I cannot hide is the evil, the violence, the destruction, the misery that socialists caused and caused. This truth has to enter the school textbooks! Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias, it is a matter of moral and civic hygiene there is a red line between my right and your left. If the PSD and the Liberal Initiative distinguished the essentials of the accessory, they would know very well where to place their red lines, as they do today. [[Ch's applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u282	I owe Mr Mithá Ribeiro an apology and a warning. The apology is that, inadvertently, he confuses the consonant lips of his second name, saying Pitha where he should have said Mithá. I'm sorry about that. The warning is required to do so by Article 89. that of the Rules of Procedure, given that the honourable Member has clearly and ostensibly abstained from the subject of the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u283	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u284	Mr President, do you wish to make an appeal to the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u285	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u286	That's enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u287	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u288	Mr President, I fully disagree with your opinion. [[BE's laughs.]] I didn't miss a millimetre of the subject! [[BE's laughs.]] We're talking about school textbooks! Or there is no freedom in democracy! Give us the script and we only talk about what you want! [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u289	If that's it, if it's to be here like this, it's not worth being elected! My freedom is to use here to talk about a problem people have been dragging for decades and I personally too. When am I going to talk about what I think I should talk about? Oh, my God! When do you authorize me? Oh, my God! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u290	Mr President, my obligation to comply with the Rules of Procedure does not depend on you to agree with me or not. It is an obligation under the Rules of Procedure, and the Rules of Procedure say that I must warn the speaker when he deviates from the subject under discussion, which I have done with enormous parity. But today, clearly, he spoke of everything but the freeness of school textbooks, which I think is not very respectful of dealing with the petition we are considering, which does not affect the historical responsibilities of this or that or the classifications of political families, but about the defense of the freeness of school textbooks. The honourable Member called on the Bureau and I gave him my clarifications. Let us therefore continue our debate. You now have the floor to Mrs Carla Castro of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u291	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I begin this speech by thanking the first petitioner and the more than 11 000 citizens who have subscribed to Petition No 262 / XIV / 2. a — By defending the freeness of school textbooks in all kinds of education in the forms of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. Secondly, I repeat what we have defended. We are faced with further evidence of deep ideological prejudice by the Government of the Socialist Party and the bow of governance in recent years. The education system includes the public, the private and the cooperative. in this framework, it is not the role of the state to discriminate families according to the educational establishment that attend. [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]] The Liberal Initiative considers that the freeness of the manuals does not depend on the type of establishment attended, but rather on the purchasing conditions of families — which, in fact, is the spirit of the law. We continue to remember also what seems to be obvious to all, except for whom laws, that is, not all students who attend private education are economically privileged, nor all students who attend public education are lacking.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u292	The public school has the doors open for everyone!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u293	This issue is not now, it is now 2020. Moreover, following a number of complaints from families and entities, the Ombudsman sent a legislative recommendation to the Minister of Education to extend the free distribution measure of school textbooks to all students who, clearly lacking, attended private or cooperative education. The government has acted and is currently reaching students enrolled in public schools and private schools, but — look! — cooperative, with association contracts which, this school year, are only 27. So we ask: where are the remaining cooperative social sector or, for example, students in the stock market or mechanized target in private? It is not easy to understand this injustice, because we are again talking about the prejudice that, once again, we would have the possibility to correct it here. We also keep in mind that Portugal is above the European Union average in the indicators of risk rates of poverty and social exclusion, of material deprivation rate and, let us remember: children are a particularly vulnerable population. Mrs. Members, the education system includes the public, private and cooperative sector that complements each other to ensure, at the same time, universal access to education, both freedom of choice for families, and therefore it cannot be admitted that disabled students, who are not on the public network, cannot benefit from this law. It is another negative step, either in relation to the freedom of choice of families, or the quality of teaching of children who need it most. It is not up to the government to be prejudiced, but it is up to education policies to identify and correct difficulties in equal opportunities. The Liberal Initiative will continue to fight for this correction. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u294	For an intervention, Mrs Sonia Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u295	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I greet citizen Monica Matos Gomes, first subscriber to the petition, and, in his person, the 11 144 petitioners. The Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party, with this draft law, intends to approve the extension of the free availability of school textbooks to all students in compulsory education who attend private or cooperative education, without association contract, like other initiatives here today under discussion. The government, in applying the measure of free school textbooks only for public school students, established a differentiation between students not based on family incomes but based on the choice of families regarding public, private or cooperative school. In other words, the State discriminates against students and their families by exercising a basic principle of the rule of democratic law, which is freedom of choice. by penalizing students who choose to develop their educational course outside public education, the socialist government not only severely places those who exercise a right as a benefit according to the legal status of schools, ignoring the sacrifice that many families choose to make, but above all ignoring that many of these families, who are in the public, are also privileged families. In fact, the government discriminates against the choice of families over the educational project that best suits their aspirations and needs, because the PS deals badly with the freedoms that renounce socialism and what it intends to implement as its model of society. It deals poorly with freedoms, because it assumes education as an ideological instrument of formatting wills and consciences in the realization of its hegemonic project. The PS, in this matter, directs its political action guided by a left-wing ideological complex against everything that does not dominate and that is why it does not like the private initiative. The State must be neutral and impartial in the face of the citizens'multiple choices in the exercise of their freedoms and this is guaranteed by Article 43. that of our Constitution. However, the State boasts itself as the best public educator, creating a monopoly and discriminating citizens according to an educational option, favouring each other and discriminating others. This legislative initiative aims to make the free distribution of school textbooks universal to all students in compulsory education—all without exception! There are no public students, no private students, no first students, no second students; there are students who make choices to carry out their life project. in this regard, it should be recalled the recommendation of the Ombudsman, January 2020, which alerts to the risks of the adverse effects of this measure, suggesting its mitigation with other legislative initiatives and recalling that the Law on the Basics of Particulate and Cooperative Education, as well as the Statute of Special and Cooperative Education at a non-superior level, provides for the allocation of socio-educational support in school, which corresponds to an imperative of social justice and is found in our legislation. Thus, we believe that we have given body to the constitutional obligations of the Portuguese State, allowing civil society, which again greets, emancipated and pluralist, an effective partner in the search for social justice, to see today recognized the principle of universality. Because all citizens are children of the same Constitution, their choices should not be penalized in the name of a left-wing complex against self-determination. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u296	For an intervention, Mrs Palmira Maciel has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u297	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I welcome the subscribers of the petition on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. Today, this House is also debating three more bills that ultimately raise the same question: the extension of the free availability of school textbooks to students attending private and cooperative education. Therefore, it is well known the consensual view of the right of this House regarding the free provision of school textbooks to all students of the public education network and of schools with association contract. In the words of the right, this measure is manifestly unfair, because in its classic argumentary, it argues that this regime is injured by the inequality between students and undermines the freedom of choice that families have in relation to the teaching of their children. It will not be hard to understand the Arrival, because, for the Arrival, the problem is only the leader of the socialist bench. On manuals, said zero! The Liberal Initiative and the Social Democratic Party depart from a basis of support for their reasoning that is ideologically polluted, in an attempt — fat, say! — to try to suppress what everyone understands about what they mean: they have a clear prejudice for public school and they want the State to be understood as a funder of teaching taught in private schools, like what happens in public school. It is the return to the old logic of the teaching check, which the right has already done, and which, from time to time, brings back here as a flag and with an inadequate interpretation of what the constitutional principles of equality and freedom of choice in teaching require. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u298	That's why you have your children in college!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u299	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we want to make it clear that what is at stake is not the merit and role that private and cooperative schools occupy in the country — because they certainly do. — neither the possibility of families freely choosing the educational institution they wish for their children, taking into account geographical or other relevant criteria. No, what is at stake in these initiatives is simply to compare what the Constitution and the law do not compare, to treat what is different and to take a path of underfinancing one of the public services that has most done by Portuguese and Portuguese in recent decades. The fact is that the Constitution entitles the State to create, but also to develop and deepen the public education network with the consequent role of financing. As regards private and cooperative education, it is the Constitution itself that limits the role of the State, circumscribing it only to the mission of recognition and supervision. In other words, there is no inequality or discrimination between students here; it is simply compliance with constitutional standards that naturally recognize a role in private and cooperative education with the obligation of the State to respect its proliferation and autonomy, but never conceiving a status of equalization to the public network as regards management, development and, above all, financing. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u300	On the other hand, your initiatives also advocate failure to comply with the requirements of the principle of freedom to learn and to teach, as reflected in Article 43. that of our Constitution. Now, once again, the right does an orthodox interpretation of constitutional requirement. It is not possible to accept the argument that freedom is being challenged by this measure. The State is not, I repeat, creating any obstacles to the free choice of families and, at the very least, creating constraints on access to public school, which are, in fact, the only constitutional obligations of the State in the matter which brings us here. What the State is doing is equipping its teaching system with tools that meet the universality and the freeness of compulsory education. The proposed parliamentary groups of these bills again confuse a constitutional right to create private and cooperative schools with the right to a competitive existence of these schools vis-à-vis public education. This is not the understanding we make of the constitutional text, but the understanding that public education has an obligation to cover the needs of the whole population, without the freedom to learn and teach, through a particular and cooperative school, to be challenged. I conclude by saying that on the side of the Socialist Party we know where we stand: it is in the continued appreciation of the public school for all, inclusive and attractive. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u301	For an intervention, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u302	Mr. President and Mr. Members: The right to petition is a right given to citizens and citizens of this country that we respect very much. I would therefore like to greet the petitioners and the petitioners and appeal to the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival that, from time to time, give some time of its appeals or political statements to Mr Mithá Ribeiro so that he can say what he himself thinks without that taking up the time that is the discussion of petitions, which, in fact, is no longer the first time that happens. [[CH protests.]] But this will be an internal debate of the parliamentary group and I just want the honourable Member to have the voice he wishes to have and here he complained that he does not have part of the parliamentary group. [[CH protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we respect that there are parliamentary groups that believe that the right to education in Portugal must be summed up in an education market. This model was tempted in other countries, in most of them, with quite failure and considerable strengthening of inequalities. But the education market is not the model which the Constitution of the Republic provides, on the contrary, what the Constitution of the Republic provides is the right to universal education, free of charge, guaranteed by public school. Does this mean there's discrimination against someone? I don't think we should be careful with the terms we use. When a private college makes a contract with a family on the frequency of this child, nothing requires the private college to cover a monthlyity for that. Cobra, because he understands, why he is a company and, if he is a company, he understands to charge a monthly. Nothing requires that the private college does not include school textbooks in the benefit that is paid by the family, as it does with hypism, swimming or football or any other service. A public school student can't knock on the door of the private school and say "I came here to have my swimming or hips class", being a student of the public school. What's the difference? It is that the private school has no responsibility in front of the student of the public school. The private school may discriminate against the student of the public school, because he is not part of the contract he made with the family and the family pays. Now, the public school cannot discriminate against any student who attends public school, and the public school accepts all students. The freeness of school textbooks derives from the constitutional right to education and from the state's constitutional duty to ensure a free and universal public school. That's what it means! It does not mean that the State has to finance all the education businesses and businesses that exist in this country with the money that is from everyone. What it means is that the State has to guarantee a good public school. If a family understands that its child should not — for some reason of prejudice, religious, social status or any other — attend the school that receives all and that he must make a contract with a private company, of course subject himself to the laws of the market and the rules of the contract he has established with that private company. Here is an exception, which is that of students who attend private schools, in contracts guaranteed by the State, in places where the State does not guarantee public school, which is their duty. in this case, the State, in addition, hires a private person and it is reasonable for that student to access all the rules that are enshrined in public education.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u303	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u304	It seems to me that from the reading of the Constitution this is quite clean and that, in fact, it is established in Portuguese society. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u305	To speak on behalf of the CFP, Mr Alfredo Maia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u306	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I should like to begin by congratulating all of you and the honourable Members. Petitioners. The expansion and consolidation of public school and universal education, compulsory and free, enshrined in the Constitution, is one of the most important and structural achievements of the democratic regime. Such a wish, the progress achieved and others that it is still necessary to pursue are essentially realized in the continuously improved network of public educational establishments covering the whole population, as well as in creating material conditions for the frequency of school by children and young people, allowing the development of learning and its comprehensive training. It is in this sense that the CFP has successively presented a very important set of legislative proposals, ranging from improving the conditions for the establishment of specialized higher teachers and technicians to the support of children and young people and their families. This is the case with the freeness of school textbooks, an initiative due to the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u307	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u308	Just to go back to a very immediate past, let's remember proposals presented by the PCP... [[Protests by the PS MP Porfirio Silva and the MP MP João Dias's counterprotests.]] ... in the discussion of the State budget, in particular on changes to school social action steps, school meals, free milk and fruit for all students of compulsory education, free study visits and, moreover, the freeness of the notebooks. As it is known, these proposals were rejected by the Socialist Party, with greater or lesser complicity of the parties on the right.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u309	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u310	In particular, the free form of forms — an urgent measure and complementary to the free form of school textbooks — are also a significant burden for many families and are an obstacle to equality of conditions — was also voted against by the Liberal Initiative and by the abstentions of the PSD and the Arrival, the same as today are demanding the free form of manuals for students in private schools.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u311	There he is! Incoherence is something you don't miss!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u312	By the way, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in their proposal and an inexhaustible contradiction to that sense of vote, the Liberal Initiative explicitly covers and I will quote « other educational-pedagogical resources ».
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u313	Just for the private, for the public, it's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u314	Mrs. Members of the public school defender, seeking to contribute permanently to their valorisation in all dimensions, including that of improving the conditions of their students, the CFP respects the choices of families, but does not follow the proposals under discussion today.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u315	Sure! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u316	You now have the floor to speak to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u317	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the petitioners, thanking them for bringing this issue to debate, and the NAP believes that it is important that we do not put ourselves in any trench. We cannot confuse the right to free education and the right to education, of course, with the right to learn and to teach in connection with the contexts of life of each family and of each child, whose needs may lead to their effectively having to resort to private education without meaning that they have financial capacity to support everything else that comes from there. What we cannot accept is that in a context of inflation, on the one hand, and in a country that continues to operate at two speeds, on the other hand, we have different realities, with municipalities that already have the capacity, for example, to support with manual students who are in private and other municipalities that do not have this capacity, thus having a clear inequality between children and young people who are in the teaching system. It also happens that the support books are not even free for public school students. Therefore, the supply of some needs is once again at the mercy of the will of the municipalities and, once again, we have a country at two speeds.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u318	And what prevents them? That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u319	It is also important to say that this measure of extending the freeness of school textbooks to the private also has an environmental charge, because the reuse of the manuals may in fact have an important role in the environmental footprint, alongside social justice. Therefore, we cannot look at ideological prejudices for this matter under the penalty of failing to meet families that may need and also fail to achieve the goals of re-use and the circular economy with which we are committed.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u320	To speak on behalf of the Free, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u321	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to greet the petitioners and say that the fact that the Book does not follow their arguments does not mean, on the contrary, that it less respects its act of citizenship or that it wishes to thank less have brought this debate to the House. However, the understanding that the Free makes of the constitutional principles that are cited in the petition is entirely different, and even divergent, from what the petitioners do. The principle of equality must be ensured by providing and making public education possible throughout the country and all those who need it. The freedom to learn and to teach must be respected, ensuring the possibility of founding private schools and cooperatives to all those who wish to do so, and anyone who wants to choose them. Then, the principle of rational and reasonable use of State resources, which are not infinite, makes us think that it should be the priority of public authorities to ensure free school textbooks in public education. As a Parliament, we are in a position that is similar to that in which each of the private or cooperative schools will be in the direction of the private or cooperative schools, i.e. they may wish to offer the free manuals if they wish to do so, but in the case of public education it is the State that is in a position to think that it should use its resources to ensure the free manuals in public education. [[Protests by IL Bernardo Blanco.]] Where is there, here, an exception? There is an exception for those citizens who, without access to public education, do not reach their area of residence, are attending schools that have association contracts with the State. in this situation, manuals must be free of charge. For those who wish to make reasonable use of State resources, it is wrong to demand more than this.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u322	For an intervention, Mrs Sonia Ramos of the Social Democratic Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u323	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mrs Palmira Maciel, we, PSD, have nothing against public school. The PS is that it has everything against private and cooperative school and its students — the difference is this! [[PSD applause.]] We have nothing against public school, quite the contrary. In fact, if the PS had nothing against private and cooperative school, it would not have plunged all our proposals into the State budget, which was approved a few days ago. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what the PS does, too, is to create dichotomies to divide, because it likes to label Portuguese as 'first' and'second', with green manuals and other pink colors, and then assign them the rights it fully understands. We are dealing with education and education there is a choice that is made, which is the choice of the course. It is up to families and children to choose to be at school who want to attend,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u324	But does anyone stop them?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u325	... and the State must support this choice, Mrs. No matter how much it costs, the PS doesn't send in the choices of families, it doesn't send in everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u326	Yeah, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u327	They must respect the choices of their families and their children, that is what they must do. [[PS, PCP and BE protests.]] But what are they doing? They do not indirectly support what young people and children also have the right to study in an establishment outside public education. You make it impossible and indirectly penalize a choice that is made according to the school establishment.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u328	But if it's a choice! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u329	It is a choice, but that the State must support in equal circumstances, because that is what we are talking about. The right to education is a freedom that cannot be alibi or embarrassed. In fact, nor is it the PSD that says so, it is the Ombudsman who says, in her recommendation, exactly this: the law that currently exists should be mitigated with other initiatives. Mrs. Provedora perceives the concrete reality of the Portuguese, but the PS does not. Why? Because Mrs. Provedora realizes that public school houses people with higher and lower financial capacities, but private and cooperative schools as well. It is this reality that you cannot accept, because for you, society is either white or black. You like to divide: either you're rich or you're poor, and depending on that, you're out of hand that the PS will then say anything.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u330	That's bullshit!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u331	No, it's not nonsense. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by saying the following: the entities that were invited to speak in this petition have left the PS and the left to speak alone. Most of them have defined that support should be extended and free of charge should be allowed to all students, regardless of the relationship and the legal nature of the school establishment. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u332	We have thus come to the end of our work today. The next plenary meeting will take place on Friday, 2 December, for 10 hours. At the first item on the agenda, we will discuss Parliamentary Inquiry No 4 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Possible Parliamentary Investigation Commission for the evaluation of the management of the covid-19 pandemic. In the second point, we will appreciate the Bill Nos 360 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Prohibits ghost flights from or to Portugal, 361 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Introduction of restrictions and restrictions on landing and take-off of private jets in national territory, 362 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Prohibition of the occurrence of night civil flights, except for emergency landings or other accessible reasons, 355 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Revocation of Ordinance No 252 -A / 2022, of 17 October and 356 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Restricts night flights, except for force majeure, by amending the General Regulation on Noise and Decree-Law No 293 / 2003 of 19 November, together with Resolution Projects Nos 251 / XV / 1. a ( L) — By safeguarding rest and well-being: against night flights in Lisbon, 288 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — By the end of night flights, by the right to rest and well-being of populations and 291 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends that the Government develop a fee on private jet flights. At the third point we will discuss together Resolution Projects Nos 280 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Recommends that the Government, together with the European Commission, act on the review mechanism of the Recovery and Resilience Plan, 34 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government create an assembly of citizens to monitor the implementation of European funds and to ensure the participation of non-governmental environmental organisations in the National Monitoring Commission of the Recovery and Resilience Plan, 35 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government increase the information available in the Transparency portal and create a focus group with representatives of civil society to assess the improvements that may be introduced in this portal, 287 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government, in the context of the review of the RPP, which will undertake to ensure transparency on the environmental impact of the changes undertaken and consider the inclusion of an increase in funds to create an adaptation component for climate change, to ensure greater ambition in the energy and water efficiency objectives of housing, to ensure the irradiation of non-classical housing situations by 2026 and to strengthen the means for research and combating corruption and 293 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends that the Government propose a modified recovery and resilience plan to the European Commission. In the fourth and final point, the Bill No. 348 / XV / 1 will be discussed. a ( PS ) — Approves the specific scheme for the repair of emerging occupational accident damage by professional sports practitioners, 371 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Amendment of the procedural regime of the disability or pension review incident and 372 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Regime relating to the repair of the emerging damage to work accidents of professional sports practitioners, together with the Resolution Project No 296 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Approval of a table with specific actuarial values for professional sports practitioners applicable to the dismissal of occupational accident pensions. In the end, we shall proceed to the voting period. Before closing the session, Ms. Maria da Luz Rosinha still has an announcement to make. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u333	Mr. President, I just wanted to inform the House that Bill No. 355 / XV / 1 was withdrawn. a (PAN) — Revocation of Ordinance No 252 -A / 2022, of 17 October as it is already expired.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-30.u334	Thank you very much, this is how our work is completed. I wish everyone a good 1. on December. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 48 minutes.]]
