ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We are in a position to start our work. The session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] Let me remind you that we have six points on our agenda and then, before the end of the plenary session, we have a vote. I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the galleries to the public. They're already open, all right. I ask for a little silence so that Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha can read the file. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u2	Mr. President, good afternoon to all. I hereby announce that they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted to the following legislative initiatives: the Proposal for a Law No 54 / XV / 1. a ( ALRAM ) ; Bills Nos 416 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 417 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 7. the Commission, and 421 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 13. the Commission ; and draft resolutions Nos 323 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 10. the Commission, and 324 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 4. the Commission. It's just, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary. The first item on our agenda is the urgent debate required by the CH on « suspicions of corruption in the Ministry of National Defence ». We hope that, at any time, the parliamentary group that has led this debate will be in a position to begin. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u4	There are already two Members who can talk about Defense!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u5	What are you talking about? Are all the PCP Members here yet? [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u6	To open the debate, on behalf of the parliamentary group of arriving, I give the floor to Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u7	Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, Minister for Foreign Affairs and other members of the Government, Mr. Members: The reason why Mr. Minister of Foreign Affairs, and previous Minister of Defence, is here today is one and only one, the enormous scorn that has caused the Armed Forces, our Portuguese Armed Forces, after the terrible scandal that has shaken the foundations of this foundation and the foundations of the Portuguese Armed Forces. Last December 6th, an operation by the Judicial Police, carried out at various points in the country, culminated in the arrest of several officials, including the former Director General of National Defence Resources, Alberto Coelho. in this very House where we are today, in the same House where we are today, Minister João Cravinho was questioned about more than obvious suspicions of irregularity, more than obvious suspicions of deviation and more than obvious suspicions of mismanagement so that this man, Alberto Coelho, was kept in his place or appointed elsewhere with public money. Regarding all this, the Minister pretended he didn't see, or he didn't want to see. When the Court of Auditors had already said so and the audits made by the Defense itself, some of them to men who had been chosen in public contests where Alberto Coelho was present as a jury, this minister we have here maintained unbreakable confidence in this man. The works at the military hospital cost threefold what they should have cost, from €700 000 to €3 million, something that a Minister of the Republic thought he should not see, or he did not want to see, or understood that he should not do so. There were contracts that were kept confidential without any military secret or State secret. There were reports and expertise sent to the Public Prosecutor's Office six months after they were known and sent to other entities.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u8	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u9	Today, the Minister here does not have to answer to this Parliament alone, he has to answer to the Portuguese. How is it possible that a work to receive asymptomatic or mild patients from the covid-19 increased from €700 000 to €3 million? Everything in this file, as in others we present today, everything, smelled of suspicion, seemed suspicious and, in some way or other, staged the suspicion that the judicial police were going to confirm. That's true, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, to date none of these men or women have been convicted of justice and, as far as we know, this Minister is not at the point of this operation. But it was Minister João Cravinho who, against all the evidence, against the numerous issues of the opposition, against the consecutive calls of attention by this Parliament, decided to maintain confidence...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u10	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u11	... in men whom I knew — and could not know, because there were many reports — that I could not keep it. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Today, we are learning about a circuit and a scheme set up within the Directorate-General for National Defence Resources of millions and millions of euros, all with the welcome or complicity of João Cravinho. John Cravinho is today Minister for Foreign Affairs, but before leaving, he appointed this same man to another company in the area of Defense, when he was already known that his management was nothing but to accumulate losses, deviations and unclear funds, even in the light of the Court of Auditors. What we have here today, Mr President and Mr. Members, it is a typical case of how power protects itself and how, in many circumstances, in a state of democratic law, it is difficult for a minister to be called to responsibility. But he wanted this debate today to be a possibility for Minister João Cravinho, who has avoided, who has fled to give clarifications, to explain here today. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I personally address to you to ask you a question to which this House would like to know if it is today that you will answer to the Portuguese: when did you have knowledge of the financial spillover of the works at the Military Hospital in Bethlehem?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u12	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u13	Did you or did you not authorize the value of these works to triple? Did he say to whom he had the responsibility to move forward, and I quote, 'to all gas'? Is it true or not, Mr Minister, that, when he knew the results of the audit, he considered Alberto Coelho suitable and the right man to appoint for the TSI (Empordef-Technologies de Información) a company in the area of defence, in the context of public money? And the question that, today, the Portuguese ask is this: why could anyone who did not have the skills or qualifications to be a Director General in the Defense be appointed as an administrator of a company in the area of Defense?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u14	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u15	Is it true or not, Mr Minister, that Secretary of State Jorge Seguro Sanches was against this appointment and alerted him to the risks of this appointment, alerted him to the risks of the irregularities detected by the Court of Auditors and alerted him to the enormous problem that he was facing, all doing the Minister who did not hear and doing everything he did not see? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u16	Mr Minister, why did it take six months to send the report to the Attorney-General of the Republic? These are the central issues on which we hope that today, in this House, in that House of Democracy, will provide clarification. What happened in the area of Defense is too serious. What happened in the area of our Armed Forces, putting its prestige and suitability at stake, is too serious. When justice feels it has to have hands and control within the armed forces, Minister, it is because it has not done its work and ignored the alerts, which were already evolving.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u17	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u18	I will finish, Mr. President. It is our conviction that Mr. Minister does not have the conditions to continue as Minister of the Republic. But today, it is not enough that you have to convince, it is the millions of Portuguese who have to answer. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u19	For an intervention, Mr Foreign Minister João Gomes Cravinho now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us begin by making clear evidence, which is that there is a matter to be properly investigated, because, while I was in the Ministry of National Defence, I did what is required of those who have public responsibilities, at every moment, based on the information available. We have seen some fables, as it has now happened, in the initial intervention of this debate, and therefore it is important to clarify the record of time. Let us see: there is nothing more unequivocal than explaining the facts. At the beginning of the pandemic, on 19 March 2020, in support of the Ministry of Health, I gave instructions to advance with work at the former Military Hospital in Bethlehem. The fundamental objective was to make beds available as quickly as possible, as I said in my office. It was estimated that the cost would be around €750 000 plus VAT (value added tax), i.e. about €920 000. In June and July 2020, the then Under-Secretary of State and National Defence, Jorge Seguro Sanches, in whom heritage competences had been delegated, sought, within their duties, information on the costs and procedures related to the work. On July 22, he sent me an order summarizing the information collected and suggesting that he send the matter to the General Inspection of National Defence ( IGDN ). That's what I did, right away the next day. Following this statement, the IGDN audit identified a set of legal inconformities and made several proposals, of which I highlight two. The first was for the audit to be sent to the Court of Auditors. I accepted this proposal and acted accordingly. Secondly, IGDN indicated that, in view of the lack of decision-making competence of the Director-General for National Defence Resources, who had authorized the expenditure of the work, I could make a delegation of powers ordering expenditure, with retroactivity on 20 March. Thus, administrative irregularities would be healed. I decided not to make a regularization order because I understood that there were some responses that justified the increase in the costs of the work compared to the initially planned.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u22	I therefore preferred to wait for the Court of Auditors. However, it was close to the end of the term of office of the Director-General for National Defence Resources and, considering the existing doubts, I understood not to postpone it to the same position, thus closing a 19-year cycle as Director-General in the Ministry of National Defence. However, taking into account its experience and accumulated knowledge in the area of National Defence — and, above all, without any false suspicion at that time — I considered it appropriate to appoint it for a company of the National Defence Industries Platform, a process that began in April 2021, passed through CRESAP ( Recruitment and Selection Commission for Public Administration ) and was completed on 8 June. A few weeks later, in mid-July, new news emerged in the media raising serious suspicions about contracted companies. in this picture, I immediately determined, on 20 July, that the IGDN did a reassessment of its original audit.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u24	The revaluation made by IGDN essentially says two things. First, he says that, in relation to the initial audit, and I quote, «the matter then identified did not point to the existence of factology that could be relevant for the purpose of possible criminal responsibilities ». Secondly, IGDN proposed that, in view of the new information and the new investigation it had done, the matter should be sent to the Public Prosecutor's Office. That was exactly what I did on August 16, 2021. In short, ladies and gentlemen. Members, at every moment, with the information I had, I did exactly what I should do:...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u26	No more!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u27	... I was proactive in sending to the General Inspectorate the order in which Mr. Secretary of State expressed his concerns; I was proactive in sending the IGDN audit to the Court of Auditors ; I was careful not to accept the recommendation to heal irregularities with a delegation of retroactive competences ; I was proactive again before the July 2021 news, requesting a reassessment of the IGDN audit ; and finally, before the reassessment made by the IGDN, I was again proactive in sending it immediately to the Public Ministry. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, if today this matter is being investigated in the bodies themselves, it is precisely because what I did in the Defense was to act in accordance with the information I had, in respect of the law and the good name of the Ministry of National Defence. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I can only regret now that there are those who wish to take advantage of a legal process which has taken place, and it is wrong to do so. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u28	Mr. Jorge Seguro Sanches is asking for a word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u29	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u30	About the conduct of the work?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u31	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u32	Then please interview the table.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u33	Mr President, until I have been quoted several times in these two speeches, I would like to share with the House...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u34	Is it with the House or with the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u35	... something that seems very relevant to the conduct of the work. It was thanks to the concerted action between me, at the time the Under-Secretary of State and the National Defence, and the Minister of Defence who today is discussed and discussed in a very correct manner.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u36	Is this an appeal to the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u37	Mr President, I conclude by saying: in fact what was said in the first intervention...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u38	Mr President, I am sorry, but the question to the Bureau is about the conduct of the work. If you wish to have any documents distributed, if you want to comment on how the Bureau is guiding the work, you have every right to use the figure of the inquiry. If you want to intervene in the debate, you have time for your parliamentary group to do it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u39	Mr President, Mr Ventura's first intervention has facts that are wrong and that are likely to pollute the debate, particularly when he said that I was against a designation he did not know. So I couldn't be against it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u40	There are rules in Parliament! You don't send everything into this!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u41	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Rules of Procedure have several figures to allow the speeches of the Members. Members, including the defence of honour if any Member or Member of Parliament understands that his honour has been offended by some intervener, so we should use our own figures at any time. For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, I give the floor to Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : The conversion of the former Military Hospital of Belém into the centre of shelter-19, one of the works that is in the genesis of arrest for the suspected practice of crimes of passive corruption, abuse of power, speculation and economic participation in the business of three top leaders, frameworks of the Directorate-General for National Defence Resources, have always caused us, from the first hour, the greatest doubts, the greatest suspicions and the greatest perplexities. If there is something that stands out in the eyes of everyone, in this process, the Minister has done virtually everything that is not expected to be done by a Minister. Mr Devalued, perhaps he authorized the brutal spillover of that undertaking which, instead of the 750 000 €, cost EUR 3, 2 million, not even taking advantage of producing truly extraordinary declarations such as « it is money that is not lost ». One thing is a diversion, another is a spillage. It cost three times more, but it is a more complete work than it had been thought! Open... [[PS protests.]] The Minister olympically ignored the essence of the companies to which direct adjustments were made: one with only two employees, a sumistic social capital and without having enough public works; and a second for two years he devoted himself to the management of an aesthetic salon and, in the meantime, to the cycle of opportunities brought by the pandemic, also to the construction of military hospitals. Mr. Minister despised the content of the two orders issued by his Under-Secretary of State and the National Defence, Jorge Seguro Sanches, who denounced the practice of acts by the former Director General of National Defence Resources, outside their legal competences and identified expenses incurred by that but not authorized. The Minister has continuously tried, even against an opinion of the Committee on Access to Administrative Documents, to hide the illegalities referred to in the audit of the General Inspection of National Defence relating to the identified undertaking,... [[PSD applause.]] ... by classifying the confidential report, as if an audit or public works were acceptable to remain secret, a report which, inexplicably, Mr. Minister kept for six long months before sending to the Attorney-General of the Republic. For a crowd, and even knowing the problems of the behaviour of the former Director General of National Defence Resources and the numerous suspects who were falling on it, he resolved not only to praise him, considering him - an extremely qualified and capable person and who gave enormous contributions to the Ministry, as it was later appointing him to the presidency of Empordef - Information Technologies, a public company in the field of defence industries. Strangely, Mr. Minister said that this appointment—it is mentioned, made behind his then Secretary of State—was the result of a request expressed by the President of the IdD- Platform for National Defence Industries, currently Secretary of State for National Defence, but he claimed that those appointments were the responsibility of financial and sectoral protections. What are we staying on? Mr Minister, given the political appreciation that this undertaking has had in Parliament - it is worth mentioning by persistent action by the Democratic Social Party - it is very little for us to believe that the Prime Minister has not validated that appointment, something which Mr Minister will surely have the opportunity to clarify. The fact is that, until now, including the intervention you have just done, Mr Minister has not been able to justify his obvious errors in evaluation or validation, the contempt for the offices of his secretary of state, the coverage of someone on which all reasons arise to doubt his suitability, the depreciation of the report of an inspection audit, the attempts of his concealment, the late delivery of it to the Attorney-General of the Republic, his intelligible length of things and hurry to others. Mr Minister, your work in this process is as time has gone on: it is surrounded by an enormous nebula, which has not been dissipated by the intervention which you have given here. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u43	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Once again, today we are discussing a subject which unfortunately begins to be recurrent within the public institutions. From a purely legal point of view, the Liberal Initiative will await the outcome of the ongoing investigations. We demonstrate our genuine confidence that this process will be investigated as quickly as possible and that justice will work, prays to whom it hurts. Having said this, there are some facts in the political plane that cannot be ignored: the Liberal Initiative condemns the performance of the former Minister of Defence and current Minister of Foreign Affairs, João Gomes Cravinho, who began by trying to hide the audit of the Inspector General of National Defence to, later, devalue the financial spills of the works of the former Military Hospital of Bethlehem, which even his own Secretary of State found strange. At the time, Gomes Cravinho stated in this House — and before these Members themselves — that it was money that was not lost and that it could even be an asset value greater than expected. in the third phase, on 16 February 2021, after having heard of the findings at the audit of the General Inspection of National Defence, which reported several breaches, the Minister was again in Parliament and tried to convince the Members that it had not been carried out at the cost of the works, which - they remind themselves - have benefited from an expedited process of approval without scrutiny adopted during the pandemic. Worse, the Minister appointed the former Director General for National Defence Resources, Alberto Coelho, to the President of the Board of Directors of Empordef, held by the State, when he already knew of the spillovers indicated by the General Inspection. We must also not ignore that its successor in the defence portfolio, current Minister Helena Careers and at the date of President of the IDN (Instituto da Defesa Nacional ), already after the scandal has been known, received Alberto Coelho as a teacher in a postgraduate course at the National Defence Institute. It was also known this weekend that the then Minister of Defence referred this audit to the Attorney-General of the Republic in mid-August 2021 six months after having sent it to the Court of Auditors and without waiting for the completion of the investigations of this court. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we notice a behavioral pattern here. The government always treats sensitive information in the same way: first, it hides them; then it devalues them; and finally ignores them, without taking responsibility. [[Applause from the IL.]] We deeply condemn the political lightness with which the Government has managed this whole case. Corruption within a public institution is extremely serious, corruption in the Ministry of Defence, in addition to serious, has profound political consequences, both internally and internationally. Firstly, corruption in the Ministry undermines the confidence of the Portuguese in one of the fundamental pillars of liberal democracies such as ours and therefore in the government itself, which was unable to face a serious problem, trying to blind it. In addition, corruption in the Ministry of National Defence can have a negative impact on the efficiency and effectiveness of military operations in the country and abroad, affecting the national security structure and internal stability in the country in the medium and long term. Corruption also has international consequences, since the Ministry of National Defence is one of the main actors in the country's international relations. Corruption in the Ministry of Defence affects the image of the country abroad and its ability to establish international partnerships, with a profound negative impact on Portugal. As has already been the habit among the ministers of this government, they behave as party militants concerned only with the consequences that the media effects may have in the image of the Executive. The Minister had sufficient information in his possession to be able to formulate a political judgement independent of subsequent judicial decisions. The Minister did not understand, or did not want to understand, the need to act as a minister of a rule of law in order to safeguard political confidence in institutions. The Minister has chosen not to be a minister and has chosen nothing to do, with fear of the consequences. With this, he rendered a bad service to the country, harmed the image of transparency that must prevail in the use of public money and allowed it to continue to speculate about the promiscuity between the public authorities and the interests of the parties of the system. Now, it is precisely against this kind of political behaviour and stance that the Liberal Initiative is fighting and will always continue to beat itself. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u45	To speak on behalf of the Left Block, you have the floor of Mrs. Joana Mortagua.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Suspects of corruption, abuse of power, speculation and economic participation in business in the Ministry of Defence are under investigation, but to justice what is about justice and politics what is about politics. That is where Minister João Gomes Cravinho entered, who at the time occupied the defense folder. It is important to recall the facts: three high-ranking National Defence, including Alberto Coelho who led the Directorate-General for National Defence Resources for many years, were arrested last Tuesday for suspicions of corruption in the exercise of public functions and other financial crimes within the framework of the operation « Perfect Storm », of the Judicial Police. It is not only the derailment of the works of requalification of the former military hospital in Lisbon, but also of the alleged ghost companies, abuse of direct adjustments, fictitious works, bribes and favors, i.e. a typical case of public predation by private companies. The suspicions about Alberto Coelho were known a long time ago — he even got away from the Directorate-General for National Defence Resources in June 2021. This is where the responsibility of Minister João Gomes Cravinho comes from because he has, despite that, given him as President of Empordef. What level of knowledge and what level of approval has the Minister given to triple the funds for the work of the military hospital in direct adjustment to companies under conditions such as those described here? Why did the Minister give a visa with great concern, agreed with an audit of the National Defence Inspector General, but did not remove from it the political consequences of the appointment of Alberto Coelho for Empordef, recalling that the order said that Alberto Coelho had exceeded his competences and had resisted to discriminate against the values of the work? Why did you keep the audit report secret? And, making this worse, why, after knowing all these cases, Minister João Gomes Cravinho devalued the case by saying that it was not a spillover, but only a budget deviation, when he had already said it was money that was not lost. In view of the evidence of what seemed to be a shrimp, what Mr. Minister suggested was: "We are going to circulate that there is nothing here to see! That, yes, is political and not justice. That is why we want to hear Mr. Minister with horse explanations, which did not bring us here, but we also wanted to hear Prime Minister Antonio Costa, because it is not a media bubble, the Prime Minister has to answer about this more case. The profusion of false companies, companies that are a mailbox in a housing building, without employees, only to have business with the State, shows us that the state's worsening powers phenomena of corruption or at least phenomena of doubtful legality. The State should be able to carry out its tasks by its own mechanisms and not go direct to direct adjustment. We can't have companies set up on purpose time for a contest. We cannot have companies that, in practice, have only one postal address to gain direct adjustments and public tenders. In addition — it is good to remember — this investigation took years and involved more than two hundred judicial police inspectors. This shows how important it is for the State to have a public investment in human resources in combating corruption and white collar crime. These are the choices that, unfortunately, this House often chose not to make. by preferring a weak state they prefer a weak state also in the fight against corruption. The other obstacle — and it must be said — is the culture of the Socialist Party of deresponsibility, demining, relativization and devaluation of practices that do not contribute to the transparency and safeguarding of the State. On the contrary, this government has become a case government. They are different, but when they are devalued equally, the Socialist Party contributes so that those who are truly serious for democracy and those who are not except media bubbles cannot be separated. The Socialist Party itself navigates this sea of cases calmly because, as cases are spoken, the policies of the Socialist Party that have attacked the wages and public services in the country are not discussed. Still, the former Minister of Defence, now Minister for Foreign Affairs, has to explain to the country one more case that does not seem to be just a media bubble. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u47	To speak on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Francisco César has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After some time of debate—we are already going in more than half the time—it is possible to make a balance of the objectives that they have chaired at their call. At first sight, we would think that this was a legitimate concern of one or two political parties with a case of alleged corruption in the Public Administration, whose due diligence in justice takes place in their own place, in compliance with the principle of separation of powers. We thought, imbued with good faith, that these proceedings, of course, should add the appropriate political clarifications, in this House, of the highest responsible then on what they knew of this case and that provisions had taken in the exercise of their duties. Indeed, even if any party had taken the initiative to call this Parliament the former Minister of National Defence, it had already proved itself available for all the clarifications to be made here. The Socialist Party was also, in fact, always available to enable the Minister's hearing in Parliament, which ended up not being necessary because he had sought to overcome the PSD and had called for this urgent debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u49	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u50	But unfortunately, that's not what happened. It is true to say that after the war, generals are not missing. The frenetic media-populist competition between the two major political parties, which include the right and the extreme right, and the inability to resist the temptation to glue the word corruption to the government — even when it scrupulously fulfilled this role of supervision and complaints of irregularities — rather than rendering a handful of votes or satisfying the ego of these parties, contributes mainly to discrediting the rule of law and the political system that we are all part of. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is not surprising to find a more concerned opposition to attack those who have denounced an alleged corruption scheme than to criticize those who have allegedly committed a crime. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] Now, as we well know and hear, here is not a case of corruption involving the government. We know we don't. In fact, there is certainty that the Government has not been involved in illegal conduct by some officials, as Mr President has explained. Moreover, if the facts show that: when there were doubts about the spillovers in the military hospital's works, the Government asked for clarification; when the clarifications were insufficient, it requested the audit of the Inspectorate General of National Defence ; when it obtained conclusions of this audit that pointed to irregularities, it followed its recommendations, even with excessive zeal, and sent them to the Court of Auditors ; and when there were reports of suspected criminal offences committed by companies to whom the work had been awarded, the Government, before these new elements, requested the Inspector General of National Defence to reassesss its audit taking into account these data, which prompted the sending of a new report to the Public Prosecutor. If there is something we can say today, of course, as much as it costs the arrival and the PSD — and even as it seems, the Liberal Initiative — is that there has been research and scrutiny on this subject which also led to the intervention of the judicial bodies, this intervention is mainly due to the prompt, zealous attitude of the public interest, diligent and responsible for the then Secretary of State of the National Defence and Minister of National Defence, João Gomes Cravinho. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is a pity that in such a sensitive matter and in one of the key areas of national sovereignty, in some opposition parties the purest and vilest political opportunism and lack the necessary and indispensable sense of State. But with the certainty that it is the democratic institutions that, in all this process and in the manner in which the political parties here have submitted their requests for clarification, are damaged when that happens. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u51	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. In order to make this request for clarification, I give the floor to Mr Ventura from arrive.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u52	Mr President, Mr Francis César, said — and indeed the Minister’s intervention — that the Government did what it had to do as a political leader and that it is clear today that the Government has nothing to do with any such practices under investigation. But then, Mr President, I would like to go to the side of the Socialist Party — which, in fact, asked for an intervention recently — to question it directly as to whether this is true. The current Mr Jorge Seguro Sanches, then Under-Secretary of State for National Defence, with the competence of real estate, signed an order on 24 July 2020 to report that the expenditure — to that of the hospital — had not been authorized by him and that the Director-General had overstepped the legal competences and had not discriminated against the total value that was requested from him. I mean the honourable Member who is sitting there! He also said that Alberto Coelho resisted and did not answer any of the questions. One week later, on 3 August, Seguro Sanches signed another order to demonstrate the illegal use of these 3, 2 million euros from funds from the Military Infrastructure Act providing for divestments, investments and works in the Armed Forces buildings, and says : « I did not agree or order any integration of the projects of the former Military Hospital of Belém, under the Military Infrastructure Act. Do not keep on seeking. ” In view of this, I ask: Is it true or is it not true that the former Secretary of State, now a Member, had already said and evidenced that this allocation of resources was illegal? If it was illegal, how does the Minister sitting here appoint someone who used money illegally not for the same position, but for another? [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS protests.]] So that's what we need to know. It's very simple! The point is that you say that the PS has nothing to do with this and that the Minister acted within the maximum scruple. So it is scrupulous to know by a State Secretary that it is not even the Public Prosecutor's Office or any public research institution, that there was illegal use of funds. And what did Mr. Minister do? He felt that he should not postpone the same man in office—he did not realize why, but we liked to know, since he had so much profile, so much fitness, so much knowledge—but he decided to put him in a public company. So, what's the point of this? Oh, my God! Where's the fitness? Oh, my God! Is there no political responsibility to be established? It is that if Minister João Cravinho, instead of having named Alberto Coelho, had sent him home, today we would not have this complaint from the institutions, this shame from the institutions in our House. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u53	In reply, Mr. Francisco César, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr André Ventura, you are very concerned about this.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u55	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u56	I would like some clarification, but the fact is that the honourable Member has a Foreign Minister in front of him — the former Minister of National Defence — and he did not ask you a single question.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u57	Not a question!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u58	It was before to ask the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u59	It's just politicism! [[Answer me!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u60	In fact, I have already said and I am saying again that the arrival shows that it is more concerned about criticizing the government and removing political dividends than about criticizing those allegedly involved in a corruption scandal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Minister and Mr. Secretary of State for National Defence acted as legitimate representatives of the Government and performed their duties. And the government, in a coordinated way, when he had doubts, asked to investigate. When it had results, it sent the reports to the Court of Auditors. When there were further doubts as to the possibility of criminal offences, he sent it to the Attorney-General of the Republic. There is something we can say: if there is a criminal investigation today, it is because the system worked and because the government has fulfilled its role in denouncing irregularities. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u61	Mr. André Ventura is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u62	For an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u63	Please ask the Bureau about the conduct of the work, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u64	Mr President, after this speech by Mr César, I would like to ask the Bureau, if not uncomfortable, to distribute to Mr César and to the leader of the Socialist Party's bench my 14-minute intervention, where I raised six questions to the Minister — all of them are unanswered! So, Mr. Deputies, it wasn't long ago. It was 14 minutes ago. [[PS protests.]] I know the memory of PS is long! Open... So perhaps Mr President may have Mr Francisco César distribute the intervention to Mr César on the issues I have put to the Minister, and perhaps we can finally have an answer in the 39 seconds that the Government has.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u65	Mr. Francisco César is also asking for the floor to speak to the Bureau on the conduct of the work?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u66	Yes, Mr. President. Exactly within the same framework as Mr André Ventura, to ask Mr President to distribute the intervention of the former Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is responsible for the National Defence, to clarify all the doubts which have been raised here by all the political banks. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u67	Ah, we've always asked! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u68	Mr Inês de Sousa Real has now the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The recent and alleged cases of corruption that threaten our country must concern us. Every minute Portugal loses €34 000 for corruption, which means that at the end of this debate we will have lost nearly EUR 1 million for the phenomenon of corruption. In addition, the same also arrives and leaves its landslide with the Ministry of National Defence, calling into question one of the guarantors of the security of our country, of sovereignty, and it is also a focus of concern about these phenomena. Today there are at least three questions that we would like to see if the Minister could clarify. Far from being a populist debate on this issue, it is important that the same should be used to clarify the people who are accompanying us on this particular process. Why did the Minister, when he was heard here on 23 February 2021, not share anything about the findings of the audit of the General Inspection of National Defence — which was clear in his conclusions, saying that there was a spillover — and insisted that there was no spillover on this issue? The second question relates to the appointment of Alberto Coelho, a high-ranking CDS-PP, who was appointed President of the Empordef Board of Directors, a company of the state-owned defence holding universe. This appointment is particularly strange when there has already been this breakthrough, the Minister had also considered the "high concern" and the evidence that existed on this issue and, however, there was one appointment for another high defence position. Finally, there is a question that relates to Alberto Coelho's own journey. We are talking about someone who was the National Arms Director, who tried direct adjustments for the acquisition of arms, the cleaning of military land, among other programs, and the risks of budget spillage, misuse of public money and corruption were enormous and should be investigated.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u70	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u71	Therefore, the question we have left you, Minister, is if you have not had any evidence of these same risks. I also want to note the absence of the Minister of National Defence, because it was important that she be present in this debate to know what will be done in the future to prevent all these phenomena of corruption.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u72	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We discussed a case that has to do with the cost of the works of the three of the five floors of the Belém Military Hospital, budgeted at 750 000 €, but which ended up having a much higher cost, rounding the triple. An audit of the General National Defence Inspectorate revealed irregularities. in detecting these irregularities, he also pointed out that the former Director General of National Defence Resources was responsible in this case. in this sense, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, considering that this case is already in the hands of justice, the controversy that has settled around this issue and also the debate that has already taken place this afternoon, the CFP wants to leave three brief comments. One of them is required. The need for complete clearance of all responsibilities, particularly in criminal and political matters, as the CFP has already done: as soon as this case was public knowledge, we have pointed this way. The second observation is alert. It alerts to an aspect which, in this case, is quite evident, the perversion of the indefinite maintenance of officials in public political appointments. In particular, we are talking about someone who for many years has passed through successive governments, PSD, CDS and PS, and has remained in the position of Director-General of Staff of the Ministry of National Defence. The gentlemen. Members should be reminded that when the troika government, the PSD / CDS, decided to set up the Directorate-General for National Defence Resources, merging the Personnel and Military Recruitment Directorate and the Defence Arms and Infrastructure Directorate, before two candidates, a civilian and a military, at that time the then Minister of National Defence ended up choosing the man we are now talking about, who over two decades occupied leadership positions in the Directorate-General. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is appropriate for us to say that there were already dusts in the air on doubtful practices; however, the Ministry of National Defence continued in this dance of the "invitation here, appoint for there", involving even personalities, which reminds us of a famous popular phrase that has been said for a long time and that applies well to this ministry and the practices it has followed — "sorry, but the reality is that it is wrong. Do not keep on seeking. ” This is the assessment we make of nominations and indefinite perpetuation in these positions. A third consideration is that a substantial investment was made in works at the Belém Military Hospital and we understand that, at the moment, it is of paramount importance that the three floors be placed at the service of the Portuguese. in this sense, it seems to us that, after the investment of approximately 3 million euros, public money invested in a hospital that is closed, it is important to know what will happen to these facilities, i.e. whether they will be made available to support the National Health Service or whether they will be the subject of some negotiation at the service of health marketing. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u74	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for a speech on behalf of the Free Party. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, good afternoon to all. In terms of political responsibility—which is what we need here to assess, while the judicial system assesses criminal liability on third parties, including the former Director General for Defence Resources Alberto Coelho—there are two essential questions that have already been asked and which are, in fact, the central ones. The first is to know why when these suspicions were sent to the Court of Auditors, they were not sent simultaneously to the Public Prosecutor's Office, to the Attorney-General of the Republic. Mr. Minister has already said that it was when the IGDN audit was reassessed. The question, in this case, is this: why did you not decide to be more proactive and send them at the same time — so at first — to the Attorney-General of the Republic? The second question is why, even with only the first audit of the IGDN, not retraining the Director-General of Defence Resources to the position he had, he decided to appoint him to a public company? The question is not so much to ask you why, this has already been asked in various ways and I do not want to repeat this question exactly in the same way. But in terms of political responsibility, which is what matters to us, I would like to ask you if you think that, in the same situation, in the present or in the future, it would act exactly the same way. That is what enables us to make the political assessment that we are now interested in doing in this legislature.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u76	To speak on behalf of the PSD, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr. Francisco César said that if there was a criminal investigation into the outcome we have known so far, it is due to the action of the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u78	Why are we here? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u79	Mr. Deputies, that's what I was missing! It was the most important thing for a member of the Government to refrain from participating, to refer documents to the Attorney-General of the Republic indicating the practice of illegal acts and even possible criminal offences! Mr President, the question is not that or, rather, the questions are not. The question is, of course, why the Minister took six long months to send the audit of the National Defence Inspectorate-General to the Attorney-General of the Republic. Secondly, the question that arises is why, despite suspicions about the former Director-General for National Defence Resources, the Minister, instead of ordering the establishment of a disciplinary procedure, decided instead to promote it. And he did the same without knowing which final decision of the Court of Auditors. These are some of the essential issues that are still to be answered. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u80	For an intervention on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u81	Mr President, Minister, as you still have 40 seconds, asked him to answer these questions directly. In this view, in this order to which we refer, the Minister has signed as I shall now state: 'I am very concerned. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u82	That's not enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u83	Now, Minister, you have been very concerned, if you were very concerned, why did you rename this man to a public enterprise? This is such a simple question! If you saw with concern, as we are all seeing now, as if you were here before us, that the contract was breaking up, which were to be recorded money where it could not be, then instead of moving away and setting up a disciplinary process, would you appoint it for a public company? Oh, my God! What is the answer you have to give to this? Second question: why didn't you redirect it and appoint it to a public company? Is it not true that you have taken advantage of Law No 10 -A of the pandemic to escape control of the Court of Auditors on many of the issues related to this? Finally, Minister, and perhaps the most important question of all: did you or did you not authorize spending with the Belém Military Hospital to be the triple of what it was? So far, we don't know that answer. Has the Minister authorized, or, as his former Secretary of State says, it was « his wake» that this was done, even though he had said that the works should « move forward to the whole gas»?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u84	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u85	Mr Minister, no one understands that EUR 3 million has been spent on a case-covid hospital, and only on asymptomatic and less serious cases. far away, far away, this smells like state interest. Very, very far away, it smells like government cover, and it's too bad for us to let it go. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u86	For an intervention, Mr Foreign Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I am sorry that we have heard speeches that were already written before we reached this plenary, so they have not made minimal use of my explanations. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is a pity, because the questions which have already been clarified in my initial speech are repeated. There is also a great temporary confusion. We can even forgive the arrival, because you spoke before my intervention, but there is a great confusion in the temporal plane, when you are confused when I sent you to the General Inspectorate of National Defence, when I sent you to the Court of Auditors, when I sent you to the Public Prosecutor and, as a result, the most extraordinary theories are developed. But allow me to answer a concrete question, asked by Mr Ventura, possibly inspired by Mrs Joana Mortagua — because she had just asked the same question —...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u88	It's normal!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u89	... on whether I authorized any increase in expenditure in addition to €750 000. No, the answer is no. I did not authorize, nor was I asked to authorize.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u90	More serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u91	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to point out that, when the PSD speaks of devaluation, it is talking about something that led to the dispatch to the General Inspection of National Defence, to the sending to the Court of Auditors, to a request for re-evaluation to the General Inspection of National Defence, to an expedition to the Public Prosecutor's Office... well, if that is devaluation, Mr. Member, I don't know what your bottle is for something to be valued.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u92	Mr. Minister, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u93	I believe, Mr President, that the clarifications that could be given in this short period of time are given. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u94	To speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party, Mr Pedro Pessanha has now spoken.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u95	Mr. President, I welcome you. Members of the Government, the ladies and gentlemen. Members : Minister João Cravinho, served my homeland with all the enthusiasm of those who believe in the integrity and ethics of the Armed Forces and of those who were ready to serve them, where and as necessary. For me, as a military officer and as a member of the arrival, the Armed Forces — Navy, Army, Air Force — are the reflection of what is best in the Portuguese people: righteousness, character and courage. [[Congrats from the CH.]] They are the heirs and followers of a past that honours us, builders and pillars of our independence, over almost nine centuries. I wonder why? Why are there now suspicions of corruption and bad conduct within the Defense, to the extent that the investigations of the Judicial Police inform us? It is because, unfortunately, for us and for the Armed Forces, corruption under the socialist government has become a habit, a habit, a triviality. This is a government that has failed to implement the European Union's recommendations for combating corruption and, when it is not corruption, it is nepotism, it is the state's apparatus all infected by this cancer that the Socialist Party has introduced into public life, the cancer of 'this now is all ours'. Unfortunately, this cancer came to Defense. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u96	We thus conclude the first item on our agenda. We move on to the second point, in which we will generally appreciate Bill No 47 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Regulates the contributions of temporary solidarity on the energy and food distribution sectors as well as the Bills Nos 383 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Extraordinary contribution on profits, combating speculation and monopoly practices, 384 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Establish an additional rate on extraordinary profits, 389 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Prevents payment of shareholder and bonus remuneration by credit institutions that have received public financial support between 2008 and 2022, and 399 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Determines the distribution of excessive profits of licensed energy undertakings to operate on the national market to their customers. To present the Government's bill, I give the floor to Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs, Nuno Félix.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u97	Mr President, first of all, since this is my first intervention in the House of Democracy, allow me, in your own person, to greet all the Members and all the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposal we are discussing today in this House aims to implement in our country two temporary solidarity contributions on the energy and food distribution sectors. in an absolutely exceptional framework, in which we are witnessing a war with various repercussions at European and global level, with inflationary pressures and, therefore, with repercussions on the price of essential goods of energy and food, we must all be called upon to contribute to the common good and social welfare. The Government has been proactive in this area in order to support families and businesses at all times, depending on market conditions over the past few months. Let us remember that Portugal was the first country in the European Union to take the initiative to reduce the tax on petroleum products in October 2021, with a view to mitigating the increase in fuel prices, with successive revisions that have been carried out so far, fulfilling the commitment to ensure by this way the reduction equivalent to the reduction of VAT from 23 % to 13 % on these products. Let us also remember that, in order to strengthen the family budget, the Government has come to provide a set of support and to adopt a set of initiatives. Let us remind ourselves of the exceptional income support of € 125, of the exceptional support for children and young people, of €50 per dependent, and of the two benefits of €60 for the beneficiaries of the social energy tariff, to which is now an extraordinary support of € 240, for the most vulnerable families, to deal with this increase in prices. At the energy level too, the Government has come successively to allow migration to the regulated market, both in electricity and natural gas, or to implement measures aimed at reducing tariffs on access to networks. Of course, we are talking about a comprehensive package of measures. during the year 2022, as a whole, the Government presented very significant measures such as the EUR 2400 million that join the initial value for the First Family presented in September. Let us also recall, more recently, the Energy to Advance programme, dedicated to companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u98	No one's calling Mr. Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government will continue and will continue to do its part, as it has so far done, supporting citizens and businesses in a timely, responsible and effective manner, taking care of the present to think about the future, but this should continue to be done with social responsibility on the part of all of us. I'm sure no one wants to profit from the exceptional circumstances we live in.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u100	Are you sure? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u101	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u102	We must create the conditions for, in this demanding context, achieving balanced, fair solutions that strengthen our economy, our resilience, the resilience of families and businesses. That is what we are trying to do, achieving this goal. It is in this framework that I would say it is to be the basis of justice that we also call companies that can profit from essential goods, such as energy and food goods, sectors that have a particular feature, which is to have a special social responsibility in the current context, and which undoubtedly also benefit from the effects on consumption, of these support which the Government has been giving to families and businesses. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, companies must, in an effort of solidarity and exceptionally, temporarily contribute to the fair extent of their unexpected and surplus profits, in a context where they are the reflection of the external context. That is why, with responsibility, with discretion and weight, the Government submits this proposal to the House. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u103	Mr. Secretary of State, you have a request for clarification. To formulate it, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u104	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, wanted the fairies of astronomical profits to take place on the day that Galp announces that it will deliver to its shareholders EUR 900 million on behalf of profits of 2022.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u105	But no one wanted to!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u106	The Secretary of State has told us now that no one wanted to profit from this situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u107	I didn't want to!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u108	Well, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have either been wrong or then you have been misled, because the fact is that there are many companies working with inflation, with war and with the despair of those who go to the supermarket or to the gas pump and cannot make their lives. Only in 2022 will Galp deliver to its shareholders a bonus that is greater than anything your government admitted to increasing public service wages. Just see, Mr. Secretary of State, that in one year Galp will give shareholders a bonus above all salary increases in public service. This as the government swung to the side and said 'there are no extraordinary profits, no one saw them, no evidence' — the arrival, in fact, agreed with the government at that time, however, changed its position.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u109	Did you agree with the government? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u110	The PS then refused the Left Block proposals either to tax extraordinary profits or to control prices. We know, Mr Secretary of State, that the Government's proposal arises because the European Commission has passed the Government over the left and forced the Government to pay a fee. I have two questions to ask you. The first is this: why do you exclude the bank from this fee? I remind you that banks paid 400 % in the first half of 2021 and over 80 % in the first half of 2022, while interest on housing loans increases. The second question is: what is the expected revenue and how many companies will pay this tax? Do not tell us that the Ministry of Finance does not have the capacity to estimate this tax revenue. You can perfectly estimate the revenue and you will understand that we want to know whether this tax is to have a revenue or whether it is only for the European Commission to see, without then having any results that we can call that itself: a result. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u111	To reply, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u112	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your questions, because they help frame two subjects which I think are extremely important, and the first is: how did we get to these contributions? In fact, there has been a procedure at European level that has been involved and in which the Portuguese Government...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u113	Against your will...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u114	... also assumed responsibility. Of course, as it was later understood, at European level, this must be a concerted process. Secondly, we should not look at this contribution alone. We know that, with regard to the energy sector, there is also an extraordinary contribution, and these two subjects are framed in an articulated way. Of course, Portuguese families do not expect surplus profits from this war...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u115	There has been!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u116	... and therefore the Government is acting and submitting these proposals, which will be applied on these same profits. With regard to the revenue estimate, she will certainly understand that we are talking about new taxes without a prior record and therefore the estimate has a significant margin of error. We may be able to anticipate a revenue between EUR 50 million and EUR 100 million, but, as you will understand, it would be difficult to hit the Totoloto before knowing the outcome of the game and much easier to succeed later. So we still have no data to enable us to get to an exact number. The 2022 fiscal year is running, the 2023 fiscal year has not yet begun. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u117	For an intervention in the debate on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Duarte Alves has now spoken.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : We are watching the biggest real income cut of the century. Wages and pensions do not accompany the massive increase in prices, making it longer and harder to reach the end each month. The bread, the chicken, the milk, the fish, the fruit, the rice, the oil, the fuels, the electricity, the provision of the house, everything increases, except the wages. Everything increases and the biggest increase is the profits of the large economic groups, which take advantage of crises to speculate on prices and maintain low wages. Galp: EUR 608 million until September, plus 86 % more than last year, and now announcing the distribution of EUR 900 million to dividend shareholders; EDP: EUR 518 million until September, the best registration in five years; New Bank: EUR 428 million, the triple of the register in the same period last year. In the large distribution, the increase of 27 % of the price of the essential cabbage will be right for the increase of 30 % of the profits of Jerome Martins and Sonae, compared to last year. What remains, in the difference between galloping prices and stagnant wages, we know where it has gone: for the profits of the large economic groups. And that is not to be confused with micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the basis of our country's business fabric, which are also victims of these monopolistic practices that crush producers and small trade. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, on the proposal that the Government has tabled, after so many times to refuse, it is necessary to highlight two aspects. The first is the lack of measures to avoid this speculative spiral that originated these profits above normal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u119	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u120	The CFP has repeatedly warned against the need to control the margins and prices of fuels, electricity, gas, a set of essential food goods, and to intervene to lower banking commissions in the face of increased interest, proposals that have always been rejected, because they meant facing the great interests and the formation of such extraordinary profits. The second aspect is that the proposal put forward by the Government is short.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u121	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u122	It is short to the extent that it excludes from the scope of sectors which have benefited from several crises that accumulate, such as banking, insurance and, in the energy field, electricity, which are inexplicably out of the contribution associated with the energy sector. It is short because it applies only to the share of profits that exceed 20 % the average of the last few years. Finally, it is short because, as Mr. Secretary of State said, this measure cannot be seen in isolation and it appears precisely in a context which is marked by the approval by the PS Government — with the support of the PSD, the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival, a set of tax bubbles for large companies, at the head of IRC (tax on the income of collectives ).
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u123	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u124	They are tax bubbles that join the existing loopholes and which, according to a recent study, slide towards tax havens about 10 % of the total IRC revenue, at a value that has already reached EUR 3400 million. The CFP presents a more comprehensive proposal in the sectors and on the basis of taxation. This extraordinary contribution reveals the most basic justice in the face of the sacrifices borne by the majority of the population, allowing to collect revenues that can be used to increase support for families and small and medium-sized enterprises, deter price increases and invest in public services. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u125	For an intervention, Mr Rui Tavares has now given the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In its vast majority, this House was elected last January 30, despite the repetition of elections in the circle of Europe. at that time the world was already changing and inflation was already the highest recorded in the 21st century. This matter had already been a subject of debate during the election campaign itself. The inflation that had to do with the disruptions in the global distribution chains, in the post-covid phase, joined the war caused by Russia's invasion of Ukraine, which took place on 24 February in the second month of the year. From the moment we took possession of the agenda in the following month in this House it was already the taxing of extraordinary profits: - it was - it was then in the debate on the Government Programme ; - it was then in the debate on the State budget for 2022, which had been discussed since the previous legislature ; - it was again with the anti-inflation package of the Government, when there were proposals from various parliamentary groups and parties represented in this House, including the Free House, which presented proposals for amendments to the government proposals ; now on 20 December, at the end of the year, we are discussing the taxation of excessive profits in a hurry and already late, but not later, because it still allows to tax profits of 2022.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u127	It's time! It's a good time!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u128	It's not a good time, sir. It is not a good time because we could have had a deeper, more reflective, more comprehensive legislative process and, above all, more dialogue, since, in several parliamentary groups and parties represented in this House, there were convergent proposals, so that we could achieve a result that was more effective and fairer for our country. I'll give you two examples. The Government defines as excessive profits those that are above 20 % of what happened last year. The Free, in its proposal, defines them as more than 10 %. In fact, at a time of difficulty it is not well understood that the State is exempt from tax, that is 33 %, as the Government says, or 35 %, as the Free says, that resources can be placed at the service of those who need it most. Above all, the Government makes this levy of extraordinary profits on the energy and food sectors. The Free, like other parties, includes the banking sector, where, at the moment, absolutely obscene extraordinary profits are made.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u129	Look at the weather!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u130	The Free also includes the armament sector in the taxation of extraordinary profits: although it does not have a huge expression in our country, this proposal, in this sector, introduces a very important symbolic element, because the profits obtained through war and the war industry can never be considered normal profits.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u131	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u132	In a period of war, a State that cares must charge them to put them to the service of those who need them the most.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u133	In the middle of a war, taxes must be increased! Very smart, the idea!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u134	You have the word now... [[L-protests and CH-protests.]] I am very sorry, but the Rules of Procedure allow for departures during the proceedings, but do not provide for this form of inter-bank dialogue after any intervention. You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are debating the creation of an excessive profit rate — something that the NAP has already proposed, at least since August, and that the government finally implements, to the issue of the European Union decision. This is a debate on fiscal justice, on the need to stop speculative price increases and, above all, on the possibility of preventing those who are more polluting and profitier, in fact, from doing so on behalf of families. There are, however, aspects of this proposal which, in our view, must be improved and, therefore, we are going to introduce a proposal for an amendment so that this work can be done in the field of expertise. Firstly, it is important to ensure that financial makeup maneuvers do not lead to lower reference profit for taxation than it really is. In this sense, we propose that what is taken into account is indeed accounting profit and not any other reference. Secondly, we argue that this contribution should not be a brake on the investment of energy sector entities in renewable and environmentally sustainable energy sources, nor should companies with good environmental practice be penalized by this contribution. To that end, we want revenue and losses relating, for example, to the production and marketing of biofuels or the use of renewable energy sources, not to be accounted for in the profit to be taxed. As Austria has done, we want to see a 7 % increase in the applicable rates, where an energy company does the opposite and clearly does not have investments in renewable energy, energy efficiency or any other decarbonisation technologies. Thirdly, we believe that consumers should be protected from any attempts to impact the prices of financial charges with this contribution. For this purpose, as in Italy, there must be a monthly report on the average selling prices for energy and food products to the public so that the Competition Authority can monitor if there are more abuse of consumers. Fourthly, we want transparency in the implementation of this measure and therefore we demand that the Government deliver to Parliament and disclose information on the revenue obtained with this contribution and on the measures to help families and businesses, which it will take on the basis of that revenue. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is important to ensure that no sector that is profiting from this inflationary crisis remains out of the way. We therefore want the electricity sector to be included in the contribution proposed by the Government. Nor can the banking sector be forgotten, which will have superfluous effects on the interest rate crisis. However, we are aware that the ECB's ( European Central Bank ) authorization is necessary to apply an extraordinary contribution to this sector, so we propose what is possible : a scheme that prevents banks that have public financial support from paying bonuses to administrators and managers, requiring these values to be channeled to the sustainability of the bank and to help households with housing credit.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u136	Mr Rui Afonso has the floor to speak on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u137	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposal for a law submitted by the Government ensures the implementation, in the national legal system, of the creation of a temporary solidarity contribution on the sectors of crude oil, natural gas, coal and refining. Similarly, it proposes the creation of a temporary contribution to the food distribution sector. As a result of this bill, the PCP and the Free presented bills for corporate over-profit taxation, and the NAP presented a bill to prevent payment of remuneration to shareholders and bonuses by credit institutions that received public financial support between 2008 and 2022. In all of them, our sense of vote will be against. In the case of excessive profits taxation, we consider that both the proposed law and the proposed laws do not ensure the protection of Portuguese families and companies, and may even have a perverse effect on the price stabilization of goods and products that are praising the inflationist spiral.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u138	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u139	The main objective of this legislation should be to mitigate the direct economic effects of high energy prices and food distribution on the budgets of Portuguese families and companies — and not to fatten the State machine. Taxation of extraordinary profits will not contribute to reducing the price of fuels, energy or food. It is only one more way for the State to increase its tax revenue to the private sector and Portuguese taxpayers. It is fallacious to believe that, with the application of this contribution, we will be fighting for excessive gains. What the companies covered by this contribution will certainly do is accommodate 33 % of the profit margins that they have to pay to the State, so the big harm will continue to be the final consumer as always.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u140	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u141	The use of the term 'taxable profits' distorts all the genesis underpinning this bill. The mere taxation of profits, without a clear distinction on how they are obtained or generated, constitutes a tremendous fiscal injustice. Our bill goes in a completely different direction: while our goal is to return to the final customers 75% of the surplus profits of energy companies, by reducing the value of the monthly bill to be paid, the Government's bill and the bills presented by the Free and the PCP go to feed the state, with the use of the inflationist spiral, creating another tax to be added to the huge tax burden that has already flooded our country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u142	What we have to guarantee is the relief of the budgetary strangulation to which Portuguese companies and families are subject rather than the continued fattening of the State tax machine. What we have to guarantee are Portuguese less and less poor and not an increasingly wealthy state. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u143	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Hugo Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u144	Mr President, Mrs Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs, Mr State Secretary for Tax Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: As we know, the inflationary crisis results, firstly, from the breakdowns of supply chains during the pandemic and then from war and its shocks, mainly from problems in supply. All our citizens feel their impact on the skin and the government — and well! — has tried to mitigate the effects of a wave that no single government can prevent.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u145	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u146	However, the data show that there are companies that, as a result of the circumstances, have profits substantially higher than expected. Is it morally acceptable for some companies to have increased profits due to inflation? Should these market results not have a public intervention?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u147	What about the New Bank?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u148	Is it acceptable for our energy bills to fire and the profits of industry companies to achieve historical results? Is inflation merely a monetary phenomenon, as neoliberal economic theory says? It is the answer to these questions that this initiative seeks to give. Of course, this issue, to be introduced in our country, must take account of the European context and, in this regard, has led the European Union well, introducing a temporary contribution in the case of energy, the sector with more impact. This contribution is of an exceptional and temporary nature, aiming at profits that would not have happened if the markets had had their foreseeable behavior. The Government's bill also provides a contribution on the food distribution sector, where significant price increases are recorded with great impact on those who need it most. The proposed solidarity contributions aim to create a solidarity mechanism, which aims to support the most vulnerable families and companies more sensitive to energy costs. I recall that, during periods of extraordinary loss of companies, the European States and, in particular, the national, have also provided support,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u149	It's true, too!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u150	...as happened during the pandemic. The Government's bill aims to tax profits over 20 % over the average of the last four years—is the State fulfilling its role as fiscal justice and redistribution. It is an economic and socially just proposal, which deserves support in Parliament and which responds to European and international challenges. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u151	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carla Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: More taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u153	For whom? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u154	in this case, on 'extraordinary' profits and, indeed, is extraordinary. It's extraordinary, sirs. Members, who have the highest rate of IRC in the OECD's European countries ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ), who cover spills and spills, contributions, taxes and taxes and, nevertheless, we continue to want to overburden companies. It is extraordinary that, at the end of almost 50 years of democracy, we remain systematically overcome and that this government affords to continue to charge taxes from a rich country to a poor, stagnant and aimless country. Let us be clear, the bill we have here today is part of a European consensus to deal with the increase in energy prices that affects us all, but it is also the government's will to go beyond Europe. It is that tax addiction has no limit and it is extraordinary because the government collects more, but does not return and the companies always have to pay more in any circumstances. On the revenue collected, we have little information, either on the amounts or on actual realisations. What does "financial support measures for end-energy customers" mean? Are these direct transfers to consumers? How much? Under what criteria? And what does it mean to 'ensure the implementation of consumer protection policy to ensure the high level of protection of consumers'? Is this measure necessary to make that protection? What measures, what criteria, what responsibility, how to implement? Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have intentions, signs of virtue, budgets without looking at implementation, but extraordinary, yes, we would have a policy made differently. In addition, this law is a blind law, which does not distinguish, for example, increases in profits by expansion or market share gains by increasing the margin, where neither the law nor the debate nor this discussion, for example, the difference between producer price and consumer price. Mrs. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, Portugal does not live effectively in an economic realm, where economic theory does not apply, despite what is heard in this plenary or what is not heard in this plenary. Government policies have a real impact on the economy and when the door to the pursuit of private and business initiative is opened, the door to investment and growth is closed. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u155	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Alexandre Simões has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u156	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members : We are discussing today a number of legislative initiatives aimed at taxing extraordinary profits. Several parties were also eager to present proposals. We will adhere to the Government's bill. The Government is listening to the Community regulation to create two additional contributions, two new taxes which will increase even more the heavy tax burden which it already imposes on Portuguese companies. The first is, in fact, provided for in the Community regulation and refers to an emergency intervention to deal with high energy prices. However, according to the regulation, this tax should be temporary and this is a prior point. Is that so? Is this different from other contributions, also extraordinary, whose experience was also expected to be temporary? Well, they're all still in force. Without being exhaustive, I would like to remind myself: extraordinary contribution on the energy sector ( EESC), contribution on the banking sector, additional solidarity on this sector, and also the extraordinary contribution on the pharmaceutical industry, the health and food security rate more, the extraordinary contribution on the medical device industry, etc. However, if the Government's proposal for legislation provides for the application of new contributions to IRC tax services in the years 2022 and 2023, it does not even provide for a period of time, and the broad range of appropriations also indicates that it intends to create a new source of revenue. However, in Portugal, the sectors concerned are already subject to these contributions years ago, these contributions that have already paid high taxes on profits in IRC, to which it is added, the state spill and the municipal spill. Paradigmatic is the energy sector, to which companies already pay the extraordinary contribution, the EESC and here the regulation does not seem to allow the coexistence of both contributions, if they are equivalent to their objectives and generate a comparable or higher value revenue. Has the Government effectively sought to make the new contribution compatible with the EESC? Mr. Secretary of State said yes, but we have already had negative experiences, in fact, it is enough to remember the contribution of road service to see that when things go wrong, they go wrong. It would therefore be essential for the Government to provide the studies on which it was based. It is enough for this discussion to take place in record time, not allowing Parliament to examine measures of this kind in a timely manner. Until not satisfied, the PS Government has decided to extend this new contribution to the food distribution sector. Why specifically the distribution? Again, where are the studies? Did you have this random sector? Why exclude micro and small businesses and not the media? There's a complete discretion. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, today a media agency called this new tax contribution'Robin dos Forests'. Nothing more wrong. In applying any literary analogy, I would say that this contribution will be another tax measure of the government that behaves as PrinceJoão No-Terra, paying everything and everyone. What matters here is to prevent the final result from summarizing the most tax burden on companies, because the consequence, this, inexorable, will be the destruction of wealth and the impoverishment of the country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u157	For an intervention, on behalf of BE, you have the word Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u158	Mr President, I can't help but notice that the arrival has once again given a kambahotea now joins the IL to defend the families.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u159	You're the one who gave me a walk!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u160	Defend the Amorim family, defend the Sonangol family, defend the Soares dos Santos family, defend the Azevedo family...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u161	What about the Robles family? What about the Mortágua family?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u162	Galp, by September, gained 600 million euros, more 86% than last year; Jerónimo Martins gained 216 million euros, more than 40% than last year; Sonae, in the first half, made 118 million euros, more 90 % than last year. [[CH Member's protests Filipe Melo.]] Mr Secretary of State, if we are told that the tax revenue is EUR 50 million, something is very wrong, because it seems to us that it is more a dry powder shot than, in fact, a rate on extraordinary profits. We don't understand if it's a recipe for a year, for two years, after all, it's all about explaining. One thing is certain: these profits come directly from inflation. These companies are using their market power to increase prices, to increase inflation and are these companies that are impoverishing the country with this disproportionate profit policy, at the cost of rising prices. That is why these profits must be taxed and the role that we will have in the specialty is to transform this proposal, which is a dry powder shot, into a proposal that actually manages to tax the extraordinary profits of these companies. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u163	To speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u164	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, the arrival has not changed its position. I am going to ask the Bureau to distribute the news that, in September and June, account for the proposal of the Arrival to force prices to be lowered.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u165	And before that?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u166	As for families, I don't know what it is, I don't know if it's Robles' family or anything. We don't know if it's the Martins family or if it's local accommodation. Here we're trying to be as free as possible. Now, there is one thing that needs to be said: is that there is so much talk about the Left Block about extraordinary profits, in the morning at night, and we arrive at the debate of extraordinary profits and there is no proposal from the Left Block. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u167	Azevedo, Amorim, Sonangol...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u168	I repeat, there is not one single proposal from the Left Block in debate today. Now, it is important to say this, Mr President: the Socialist Party and Antonio Costa said, on 12 August, that they were evaluating the rate, but that they did not agree with it; on 25 September, Antonio Costa did not want to charge extraordinary profits. What has changed, Mr. Secretary of State? Is it the fact that the Spanish government said it was going to charge the extraordinary profits? Are we so dreaded that we are going after everything that Spain does in this matter?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u169	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u170	Are we going after the Spanish tow? But do I also ask you, Secretary of State, whether or not the support I receive will be part of the taxed profit? It would be important to say this to those at home: if the support during the time of the vault will count on the taxable profit. This is the first question! The second question is whether activities outside the extraordinary profits, sales from a warehouse, for example, will count for extraordinary profits. It's better to assume that yes, because you know — as I know! - Yes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u171	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u172	So assume the companies here in Portugal that what they've been receiving during the period of the covid, in extraordinary support, will count as profit.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u173	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u174	That's what I should say if I were serious. I mean, I'm sorry, Mrs. Minister, but you're going to count as taxable profit. This is what I hope you will answer this afternoon. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u175	Mrs Mariana Mortagua is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u176	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u177	About the conduct of the work?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u178	Certainly, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u179	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u180	Mr President, I would just like Mr President to clarify to you that Mr André Ventura has already tabled in this session a proposal for excessive profits, which he voted against. And, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic and with an interpretation which Mr President, I think, welcomes — and Mr Ventura too — a parliamentary group cannot present two proposals on the same subject at the same legislative session.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u181	We were the first!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u182	I just wanted to make this clear, Mr President. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u183	The only explanation I can give on this matter is that I am not myself, but rather the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and the Rules of Procedure which prevent a rejected initiative from being re-presented at the same legislative session. Mr Ventura also asks for the floor for an appeal to the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u184	To apologize!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u185	An appeal to the Bureau to clarify Mrs Mariana Mortágua, because I believe she does not have so much knowledge in this area. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] So perhaps a clarification will be in order.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u186	Mr, this is no longer an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u187	Still André Depute was in the PSD and I was already on the road! [[Easy, easy. You're so nervous!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u188	It's to clarify...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u189	Make it clear that he doesn't know!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u190	Mr. Member, if you want to speak to the Bureau, I'm here. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u191	It's Ventura here, Ventura there... Mr President, it's just to clarify what I said today and what I keep. We have here the sheets of the script that today has been distributed throughout the entire Assembly of the Republic. The honourable Member knows, as I know, the rules of Article 167. that of the Constitution on this subject, but the truth is that today we are here with the script and proposal of the Block of Left, as Jorge Jesus said, « ball ». Ball for you too! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u192	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u193	You son of a bitch!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u194	I recall that, in this decision to follow what the Constitution says, there has already been an appeal for plenary and the plenary has followed my decision. Therefore, it is accepted doctrine, as far as we are concerned. [[BE's protests and CH's counter-protests.]] Now you have the floor, if the rest of you are. Members will allow Mr. Miguel Costa Matos of the Socialist Party. [[BE's protests and CH's counter-protests.]] I ask silence, but not myself!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u195	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, Secretary of State : For almost three years the world has been at war, first against the coward-19, now against the Russian invasion of Ukraine. We have exhausted health professionals, soldiers wounded in the front line, millions of families who have to make choices and sacrifices to have to eat or how to warm up their homes. And what we are debating today is not a tax, it is a contribution. It is, as Jorge Sampaio said in the last article he wrote in life, «a solidarity that is not optional, but a duty». [[P.S.'s applause.]] Now it is not an invention of modern times, contributions on extraordinary profits are not invention of modern times; there are thousands of people asking for contributions to those who have the most, to compensate for the costs of war for those who have the least.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u196	He's been here in Portugal for many years, that's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u197	In World War I, there were even 22 countries that created taxes on extraordinary profits. In the energy crisis of the 1970s, taxes were also created on extraordinary profits. After all, isn't it really immoral that some people work, while others suffer? Now, who would dare say that this extraordinary profit is deserved, that it was ingenuity, that it was a form of economic expansion, that it is fair? by the way, the Liberal Initiative and some Mr. PSD Members. What justice is inflation serves as a tax on people's income, especially the poorest, but society does not ask for a contribution from whom else it has? This contribution, which is one third of the excessive profits of the energy sector and food distribution, is therefore a moral obligation. But it is also an economic issue, because excessive profits are an income, they are a market failure and it is to the state, to all of us, that it is necessary to correct market failures. We have heard the Free saying that this proposal is already late. Unfortunately, he is no longer here, but you will know that the European Union regulation was adopted in October when Parliament discussed the State budget. We heard the PSD say that this contribution included micro and small businesses. It does not include, they are explicitly excluded from this contribution. [[Truth!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u198	There are also those who tell us that this is a difficult concept to define, that it is better to remain still. [[And it is!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u199	But the gentlemen. Members of the Liberal Initiative should know that in Europe we agreed with this definition of excessive profit. That is why, Mr President, the economy is more than the fantasy of perfect competition and efficient markets. The reality tells us that, yes, supply does not immediately respond to demand, that there are, yes, excessive profits and that, yes, limited - they are to ensure a fairer and more competitive economy. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the solidarity of this contribution is a moral duty and an economic duty. It's a responsible duty, it's broad enough to include distribution, but it's limited in time. It is a duty, insofar as all of its revenue will be allocated to support companies in combating the costs of inflation. [[That's not true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u200	And it is therefore the visible hand of democracy to correct the greed of the invisible hand of the market, to want to profit from war and disease. This profit is unacceptable and here we are to correct it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u201	To speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u202	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this last intervention is to make us perplexed, because, for the generality of the Portuguese, let us call to you what we want! — this contribution is to collect taxes. Bridge.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u203	Sure! Well seen!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u204	If it's a contribution, if it's another fee, if it's another tax, what it means is that companies will pay more. And that's what they call whatever they want. [[Protests from PS Eurico Brilliant Dias and Miguel Matos.]] It is in the path of the vampire behavior of the Socialist Party,... [[It's true! All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u205	...that he sucks taxes, just like the vampire sucks blood, businesses and people. You can't see anything moving to get there. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] We have this example of feeling what was temporary, as already mentioned here, and that has gone on forever for you. I repeat: we have several contributions that were purely temporary and that, for you, have gone on to eternal. [[Well remembered!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u206	And with this behaviour, there is no guarantee, Mr Secretary of State — and he has not given us — that this rate, this contribution, this tax will truly be temporary. [[Protests of PS Members.]] Just as using the European Union's blight, because, where there are excessive profits and the Competition Authority did not do what it should, which was to control and avoid speculation of prices, you will be looking for taxes, without a direct deposit to the people and families who paid more than they should. This appropriation is too open in this proposal, Mr Secretary of State. So what we think is that you, on the ride, yes, of a temporary and sympathetic tax, want to collect more revenue, perhaps in a permanent way.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u207	By Ventura or perhaps?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u208	There is still a need to mention the question that has already been raised: because only micro-enterprises are left out and one forgets that small and medium-sized enterprises are fundamental to our productive fabric, they are the engine of our economy and they will be charged in an extraordinary way. [[PSD applause.]] On this, you cannot give us an explanation either. [[PSD applause.]] Finally, we would like to know why we are the sector of distribution. I appeal again: if there is speculation, this is a crime, the Competition Authority must intervene. This is not why you are going to lower prices for Portuguese families. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u209	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u210	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Hugo Costa of the Socialist Party, in his speech he said that the State supported these sectors when necessary. Or he supported himself! And it continues to support, with tax bills such as those approved in the State budget,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u211	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u212	... in particular those relating to the time limit for the deferral of tax damages. The State continues to help these economic groups. But if there is a sector that has been helped by all Portuguese, over the past few years, it is the banking sector,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u213	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u214	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u215	... which now shows profits: the New Bank, presented the triple of last year, the Santander, the double of last year. Why does the government exclude the bank from applying this contribution? What's the reason? You don't understand! in other countries this tax was applied on the bank because the government excludes, when it could also face the interest of the banking sector, which has also greatly increased its profits...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u216	And how!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u217	... at the cost of benefits and bank fees. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u218	For an intervention on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u219	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr. Miguel Matos' intervention made it very clear to what the Socialist Party is coming. It says that taxes are not contributions, which is true, and says that it is not from now on that there are extraordinary contributions in Portugal. in this he is right, since the PS is government, in Portugal, after 25 April,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u220	Don't look at this time! Just look back!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u221	...has always been extraordinary taxes on extraordinary taxes. Miguel Matos has managed to make this historical review of what has been the legacy of the Socialist Party: taxes, taxes and more taxes in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u222	You have to look at your receipt!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u223	Repeat, taxes, taxes and more taxes! The proposal from the European Parliament is clear, Mr President. If the state charges us taxes, we don't know where they're going to be spent. Why not force these companies to channel this profit to lower prices to consumers? Who guarantees to us that the Secretary of State, the Ministry of Finance, will use the money to lower the price to consumers and not to continue to spend in a useless way, as they have spent and as the Court of Auditors has so often pointed out.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u224	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u225	Mr President, these are two completely different world views. There is one who has the addiction of taxes, which, at the very least you see, will seek more and try to suck the soul of all those who win. And even when they're losing, the state doesn't pay them anything.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u226	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u227	And there are others, those who want to lower prices to consumers, those who do not accept that companies are profiting extraordinarily when so many cannot put food on the table, but who do not want to create the precedent in Portugal that whenever there is a crisis, whenever there is inflation, the government comes and charges more taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u228	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u229	It is a proposal that has only come to Europe, a proposal that has found us Spain and a proposal that has the clear meaning of a message to companies: they work, they produce, we are here to collect your praise. It's embarrassing. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u230	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, Mr Bernardo Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u231	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr. Miguel Costa Matos came here to talk about the invisible hand of the market, but said nothing about the visible hand of the State,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u232	I've talked about it a lot!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u233	...that every day is in the pocket of families and companies beating records. [[Applause from the IL.]] Because with regard to the state's extraordinary revenues, the honourable Member has done zero — zero! Still in this Budget there was a shot, a brutal shot of the increases in state's extraordinary revenues and the PS did nothing, I repeat, nothing did. Every year, we have a record.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u234	He's lowered the tax burden! Tell the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u235	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that obviously we will be voting against all these socialist proposals, from the proposal of the CFP to the one at hand. I very much appreciated Mr André Ventura's final speech, but it is the opposite of the proposal that has come here today. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u236	To close the debate on item 2 of our agenda, Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, Nuno Félix.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u237	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: during this debate, I both heard that the government would be behind and heard that the government would be ahead of the European Union in terms of timing, in terms of legislative technique, in terms of the formula for calculating the contributions herein. Well, we're not in front of any of the scenarios. We are faced with what is an example of harmonisation, of articulation and of cooperation between the various Member States of the European Union. We have a regulation that says, and let me quote: "All Member States have been adversely affected by the current energy crisis, although in different degrees. A rapid and coordinated response at Union level is therefore necessary, a well-coordinated and united response ». That's what this is about here, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. In fact, when we talked about the formula for calculating this contribution, I just asked them to take some of your attention to Article 15. that of the regulation and that the proposal by the Government is precisely what has been agreed at European level, in this spirit of harmonisation and in this joint walk to combat the effects of inflation and to seek to redistribute these excessive profits in an inflationist context. I have heard during this debate that we afford to charge taxes. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, charging taxes is the counterpart of the social rule of law. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And that is why this debate is no longer just about these solidarity contributions, it is really a debate about the state we have and we want to have, about the tax system we have and want. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the government's vision has been clear, it is to have a modern tax system adapted to families and that stimulates the production of wealth in our country. in this context, the Constitution of April also brings us a clear command, which is a command of social justice and redistribution.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u238	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u239	Mr. Secretary of State, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u240	Mr President, I shall finish by saying only that these contributions, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is April. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u241	We move on to point 3 of the agenda, which consists in the general assessment of Bill Nos 144 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Alter the Legal Regime of Territorial Management Instruments, Decree-Law No 80 / 2015, of 14 May, 387 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Amends the Legal Regime of Territorial Management Instruments in order to ensure processes for the development, modification or revision of the most democratic, participatory and respectful territorial programmes and plans of the environment and will of the people and 393 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 80 / 2015 of 14 May approving the revision of the Legal Regime of Territorial Management Instruments. To submit Bill No 144 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), I give the floor to Mr Luís Gomes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u242	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The issue of spatial planning is more than ever on the agenda, especially after the damage and damage caused by the rains of the past few weeks in many parts of the national territory. These events have shown that there are important gaps, from the point of view of planning, which urgently need to be overcome. Ordinating our territory is therefore an essential practice for proper accounting between natural systems and built areas, and should welcome and boost the country's economic development strategies. However, at present, this management has been voted upon for abandonment, not having the spatial planning being part of the main government concerns, being successively disregarded in the implementation of public development policies, being its management delivered to technocrats, who promote a system of territorial static, bureaucratic and completely obsolete management. In Portugal, there has been no clear perception of the importance of a structured and effective planning policy in order to achieve the levels of economic development that we all want. A governance system is therefore needed to ensure at the same time the balance of the different areas of national, regional and local intervention and the flexibility needed to respond in a timely manner to the challenges of the economy, ensuring the preservation of natural resources. The Government has therefore promoted a legislative amendment imposing sanctions on municipalities that do not review their MDPs (provisional plans) by 31 December 2023, which prevent them from accessing Community funds. Question : Will it make sense for the government to punish municipalities for not revising their MDPs, when the regional planning plan of the territory ( PROT) of the Algarve, of the responsibility of the Government, is already 17 years old when the reference period is 10 years? When PROT Alentejo is 12 years old, is he from the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon already 20 years old, the West and Tejo Valley is 13 years old? When the Centre and the North region do not even have any regional planning plans for the territory in force? [[PSD applause.]] Will it make sense to force municipalities to review the MDPs when their review is made on the basis of government responsibility plans, which are completely out of date in the face of reality? Is this the disorientation we want for the country? What authority does the government have to punish municipalities when it, in accordance with the law, would have to deliver, from every two years since 2015, for consideration in this Parliament, the report on the state of the planning of the territory and to date never did so, failing to comply successively with the law and withdrawing to this House a legal obligation that assists it? [[PSD applause.]] It is in the light of the above that the PSD Parliamentary Group proposes an amendment to the Legal Regime of Territorial Management Instruments ( RJIGT ), which intends to restore some consistency and justice, proposing the establishment of a one-year deadline for municipalities to review their MDPs, of course, after updating the plans of government responsibility. We all hope that the Government has withdrawn the proper illusions of the consequences of the recent weather and finally begins to build a system of order that guarantees the protection of our resources, but which may also be a lever for the country's economic growth. Finally, we all hope that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will have the democratic humility to recognize the injustice of this situation, which is embarrassing and humiliating to municipalities, and will accompany the bill presented by the PSD. [[PSD applause.]] [[At this moment, he took the presidency of Vice-President Adam Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u243	I would like to thank Mr Luís Gomes and congratulate the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. To submit Bill No. 387 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) has the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u244	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : The destruction of green spaces or wetlands, such as the White Alagoas; an unbridled concreteisation, such as the attempt we have now seen in the Fifth of the English; lands that, as they become urbanizable, have ceased to be used to cost millions; public consultations that serve to meet the timetable and in which municipalities do not hear the citizens or, at least, the opposition; soils without permeabilization and territories without any adaptation to climate change; PDM that do not combat climate change, do not meet the sustainable development objectives set by the United Nations (United Nations) or even the Paris Agreement and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development are just a mirage. These are some of the problems that our territorial planning faces and that the NAP wants to respond to in today's debate. We defend a planning of the territory aligned with the law of climate. Therefore, we propose that, in the approval of a DMP, municipalities have to have a municipal climate action plan and provide for mechanisms that encourage mitigation and adaptation to climate change and water efficiency. We also defend that citizens have a voice in developing the MDGs. To this end, we propose further disclosure in public consultation periods, such as through social networks, longer deadlines and the need to justify why the public does not accept proposals and criticisms. We want urbanism with critical mass and adherence to the reality and problems of the population. For this reason, we propose the establishment of participatory planning mechanisms that apply to the elaboration of the MDP to the methodology that exists for the participatory budgets, which have already successfully done, even in the last autarchies, in which some political forces have put such a proposal in their electoral programmes in some municipalities. Why will this Parliament not sacrifice it also in the law as a general possibility? We want the Law of Basics of Soil Public Policy to be removed from the drawer, where the municipalities put it, in 2014. To this end, we also want the municipalities to have a land charter to avoid land with an unmeasured valuation, which only encourages real estate speculation—and regulate environmental and urban sustainability funds, so that real estate gains generated by a GDP will help adapt the territories to climate change and bet on water and energy efficiency and on the sustainability of Mrs and Mrs ecosystems. Members, to conclude, cities with environmental sustainability, with resilience to face climate change and biodiversity, cities that serve people and not the concrete of real estate speculation, is what we all should want and promote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u245	To submit Bill No. 393 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), I give the floor to Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u246	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Legal Regime of Territorial Management Instruments establishes that the municipal master plan is the instrument that defines the municipal territorial development strategy, the municipal soil policy, the territorial planning and urbanism, the municipal territorial model; and also states that the PDM should integrate and articulate the guidelines established by national, regional and intermunicipal programmes. But in order for the municipal master plan to integrate these guidelines into national and regional programmes, it is necessary for the government to draw them up.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u247	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u248	And here's the problem. There are numerous delays on the part of the government in the transformation of plans into programmes, which compromises compliance with the legislation on the revision of the MDPs. We are talking about reasons that are the responsibility of the government, other than the municipalities. However, the legislation states that if until 31 October 2022 the first meeting of the Advisory Committee on the revision of the PDM is not held, the municipality is penalized, suspending access to Community funds—and here is the problem. The government does not turn plans into programmes, but responsibility and penalties are for municipalities. We consider this to be extremely unfair, because the penalization of municipalities means the penalization of populations, when we are talking about a responsibility that is of the government, which has not concluded this transformation. The CFP also brings today the debate an initiative that has three objectives. The first is the setting of a deadline for the Government's procedure on the transformation of plans into programmes — and we propose that the Government conclude them by 31 July 2023. We also propose that the deadline be extended for municipalities to hold the first meeting of the advisory committee, even after that period we proposed for the Government, which would be until 31 August 2023 ; and even if, until 31 July 2024, the process of land classification processes within the framework of the dynamics of land planning plans could be completed. Thirdly, because it seems to us that it is of the most fundamental importance, given the relevance of investment in the urban water cycle, we propose that the suspension provided for by the failure to comply with these deadlines should not apply. In fact, the law already provides that this does not apply when it comes to investments in the area of health, education, housing or social support and we propose that it be extended to the urban water cycle.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u249	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u250	For all of the reasons, in particular because of the investment that is needed in water and sanitation infrastructures. We understand that this initiative is necessary to solve a problem with which municipalities are faced, so that they are not penalized either by a matter that is the sole responsibility of the government. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u251	Present that are the initiatives, we will turn to the interventions of the other parliamentary groups. For the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative, Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u252	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Liberal Initiative will not impede changes in deadlines for the authorities nor will it align with the barriers to access to European funds by those authorities which have not complied with them, especially in view of the fact that the responsibility for these delays is largely the responsibility of the Government. It is unfair, as has already been said, that municipalities and their populations end up damaged by delays that actually cause the government's inability to regulate the territory. Given the constant delays since the law was passed, it is clear that the legislator has underestimated the ability of the entities of the State itself, both central and local, to meet these deadlines. These constant delays of deadlines for public institutions comply with legislation issued by the State itself is not something new and should make us think about what happens when the object of this type of legislation is not a public organization, but rather a private organization, because they do not have any chance, they must even respect all the deadlines imposed on them, in danger of being fined. How often do we have private organizations that, since they are unable to meet deadlines for the same reasons why the State is unable to comply, are they subject to fines and other impediments? Oh, my God! That is why, given the justifications put forward, we will not make the proposed amendments impermissible. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u253	For an intervention by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Guerreiro now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u254	Mr. President, Ex.mos Mrs and Mrs. Members: As a result of the entry into force of the General Basics Law on Soil Public Policy, Land and Urban Planning and the review of the Legal Regime of Territorial Management Instruments, which determined the transposition of the content of the rules of the special plans binding on individuals — successively extended from June 2017 to July 13, 2021, see Article 78. the — and restricted the classification and maintenance of the soil classified as urbanizable, or scheduled urbanization, requiring the inclusion of their classification rules, which were subsequently extended from 2020 until 31 December 2023 — saw Article 199 (2) herein. o — we can say that we are currently witnessing a strong dynamics of territorial planning. I shall now refer in detail to each of the three projects. For Bill No 144 / XV / 1. a, the PSD, as regards the establishment of a deadline for the retraining of all national and regional plans to programmes, we must point out that it is disproportionate since it does not discriminate against the types of instruments, and unnecessary, for reasons which I will expose. First of all, in the framework of the 2014 General Basics Law on Soil Policy, Land and Urban Planning, with regard to the subject matter under consideration, it was the option of the legislator to set deadlines only in two situations: for the transposition of the rules on safeguard regimes of territorial resources and natural values, directly binding on individuals, of special plans for municipal plans, see Article 78 thereof. ; and for the application of the new rules for soil classification ; Article 80. outside these situations, it was left for supplementary legislation, that the RJIGT is part of, the definition of appropriate deadlines and conditions for retraining — see, in this regard, Article 81. ; however, by safeguarding Article 77 in the case of the National Territorial Policy Programme. — and in the case of regional spatial planning plans, see Article 79. that they would remain in force until their amendment or revision, which leads to the mere guidance of any time limit defined under the supplementary legislation. Secondly, it should be noted that the existing PROTs, although prepared prior to the revision of the 2014 Basic Law and although referred to as « plans », were set up in their elaboration and approval as instruments of a strategic and programmatic nature, with guiding content and without binding standards for individuals. In other words, they are configured as real regional programs and present content that adheres to the material core that is defined to them by the current legal framework. Thus, because in its configuration they obey the regional programme figure and because under the Basics Act they will remain in force until their amendment or revision, the amendment of the RJIGT of 2021 gave them equal treatment to the programmes, Article 200. the same situation happened with sectoral plans, which, despite the designation, have typical program contents. In the case of special plans, or the transposition of the rules relating to safeguard schemes of resources and natural values for municipal plans was carried out by the municipality or the suspension of incompatible rules of municipal plans within the time limit, and there was then one year for the retraining to be carried out. This, as set out in the amendment to the RJIGT of 2021, which also established that non-implementation rules take on the nature of the regulation itself. Thirdly, it should be noted that only municipal plans have the prerogative to classify and qualify soil. For the reasons identified above, it is not appropriate to establish a scheme that sets differentiated deadlines for municipalities to ensure the adequacy of soil classification in their municipal plans according to a criterion of dynamics of national and regional basic instruments configured in a comprehensive and vague manner, because it would create unjustified injustices between municipalities, and the Council of Ministers, on 15 June 2022, approved the decree establishing the extension of the deadlines laid down in Article 199. the legal regime of the Territorial Management Instruments for the inclusion, in municipal or intermunicipal plans, of the classification and qualification rules provided for in it. The diploma shall extend not only the final deadline for completion of the procedure until 31 December 2023, but also the deadline for holding the first meeting of the advisory committee or the procedural conference as appropriate until 31 October. With regard to the draft law...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u255	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u256	I will finish, Mr. President. With regard to the draft law of the NAP, in some way it has become more complex the rights of participation, not facilitating what exists at the moment. For Bill No. 393 / XV / 1. the, in some way, applies all that has already been referred to in the PSD project. Therefore, the PS Parliamentary Group, although it appreciates some of the contributions made by three legislative proposals, and I will now conclude, Mr President, that it is preferable to have, in the near future and throughout the country, municipal planning plans for the third-generation territory, adapted to the development needs of the communities to which they are intended, rather than to keep the current ones perfectly dated in time. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u257	Mr Bruno Nunes has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u258	Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: As I listened to this debate, I - I am certainly reminded of Ivone Silva, because this looked like that « Patroa Olivia, Olivia couture » in that « long night of fascism », as she said, in which she lay down from the CDS — which is no longer between us — and agreed to the PCP. Why? Basically, because I hear here some interventions from people who have a lot, a lot of responsibility for what is happening. First, I would like to thank the fact that the Social Democratic Party brings this document, but also to recall that the law that is now changing is 14 May 2015, therefore a PSD government. But we know that after this, what happened was that the Socialist Party, with the support of the PCP and the Left Block, purely and simply for seven years, completely ignored this process. For seven years, they just didn't want to know what was going on. We follow up with the PSD proposal, but then we look at other proposals under discussion, including the PAN proposal, and we realize the risk of crawling on documents where we do not mean "ball" what we are talking about. That's what the PAN came to do! Trying to simplify, he said that it was even important to take part in social networks. I'm already imagining a survey on Facebook or a video by Mrs. Deputy at Tik Tok calling for participation in the Municipal Director Plan. We realize that it is something that is irresponsible how municipalities today cannot apply to a number of funds as a result of what the Socialist Party, the Communist Party and the Left Block have not done in recent years. You know, Mrs Deputies — and I address you because it was the one who tried to make it easier — for the authorities to do something, such as a consultation and an amendment of the PDM, many opinions are needed; it is a long process, it is not a thing to do a Facebook poll, almost as if it were to vote if the Panfa is well decorated, or not, for this Christmas! This is a very serious matter. This is a very serious matter which has limited the authorities in investments. Finally, it has limited people to have, in fact, investment by the authorities. But then we heard the PS intervention and we realized: there comes the "Olivia Patroa, Olivia Costureira", which conflicts with itself because, as a seamstress, it wants to fight for better wage conditions than as a sponsor. What happens is that the PS has municipalities—and I spoke with several presidents of the PS camera yesterday—who are very anxious about this situation because we know that PROTs are not done. In the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, for example, PROT has a 20-year delay. The Prot of Alentejo, as has already been said, is 2010 ; the one of Algarve is 2007 ; the one of the Centre is 2008 ; in the North there is no! Therefore, be serious when you put in the newspapers... Including, the Minister for the lack of territorial cohesion, who was President of the CCDR ( Committee on Regional Coordination and Development ), should be ashamed of the statements she has given,... The speaker posted a newspaper. ... because what you did was to say that by 2023, maybe it doesn't give time, but responsibility is for the municipalities, because they are all irresponsible. Irresponsible have been VV. Ex. in the management of the territory and in the way they have not done planning or sorting. they have responsibility for all sides on the left. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u259	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u260	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u261	Don't tell me it's for honor's sake? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u262	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u263	A real request to the Bureau, Mrs. Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u264	Exactly, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u265	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u266	Mr President, it was just to clarify very briefly to the honourable Member that, if you consult...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u267	But that is not an appeal to the Bureau, Mrs Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u268	Let me just conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u269	Don't let anything end!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u270	I believe that with this explanation it will dispense a new distribution of the legislative initiative, which expressly states that what is intended is the dissemination on social networks and not consultation through social networks.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u271	Mrs Deputy, I assure you that Mr Bruno Nunes knows your bill, certainly. So you have the floor for a speech by the Left Block, Mr José Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u272	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The need for a territorial planning that overrides the common good and guarantees a planning capable of protecting the territory from extractive, speculative and particular interests logics is an essential dimension of territorial management. Perhaps it is becoming even more obvious, either with the climate emergency, or with extreme phenomena — full, fires — and of course this must be done in view of public participation in the processes, i.e. urbanism capable of welcoming the critical mass of citizen participation. We also need to have much more than beautiful principles or rules. We need the State and the authorities to comply with and enforce those principles and rules, those territorial planning instruments. What makes no sense is that, in the face of government delays in transforming plans into national and regional programmes, as legislation determines, municipalities are penalized, and even the possibility of access to Community funds is suspended. How can the municipalities — and therefore the municipalities, the inhabitants of a particular municipality — be punished for a failure to comply with the responsibility of the government, for a delay that is not imputable to them, which is not the responsibility of the municipalities? The fact is that the government has been a user and a worker in non-compliance with the deadlines laid down in the law. It is not only on this issue of territorial management instruments, it is in many other areas where the law defines deadlines for management instruments, deadlines for regulation of certain rules and the government indefinitely prolongs those obligations, thus violating the law. The initiatives presented here are intended to correct this injustice, and even this absurdity, and in this sense, the Left Block will vote-CL-in favour. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u273	You have the floor for a speech by Mr Rui Tavares.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u274	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are faced with a novel of some of our national vices and seals: the difficulty of having policies of planning of the territory which are consistent and structural, and which are intelligible, too, because for those who are not in the subject and who are attending this debate it is not easy to follow it and understand it; the imposition by the Government of time limits which are unrealistic; and then the attempt — which is commendable and we will follow — to review the deadlines for the authorities to comply with them and, finally, not subject to disproportionate penalty to be able to compete with European funds by the advisory committees did not meet time when, above all, the Government itself remained to give the framework, in terms of national and regional programmes, which would allow the authorities to have these advisory committees brought together in time. Uf! Even trying to give the initial framework is no longer easy. We will follow these initiatives, but it would be essential to be able to deepen the analysis of the problems which the authorities feel, in particular, by asking the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities to come to the corresponding parliamentary committee.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u275	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u276	I conclude, Mr. President. More than extending deadlines that may later be not met, it is essential to try to draw up this novel and have a way of consulting the populations, reviewing the programmes and accessing the European funds which are more understandable to all, including us.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u277	For an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sofia Matos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u278	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mrs Isabel Guerreiro, spoke, spoke, spoke, but no one understood exactly what the Socialist Party's intentions in this matter are. Land management policy is very important so that each of the territories can captivate public investment and do with it what their endogenous resources require most. What is at stake is that the Government imposes sanctions on municipalities if they do not review their MDPs until 31 December 2023, and cannot use Community funds when these own MDPs depend, and much, on the regional planning plans of the territory, which the Government does not update. I ask: what morale does a government have that does not present to Parliament the Report on the State of the Planning of the Territory, how should it do every year, since 2015, — it should have done so, but it did not — to apply absolutely disproportionate sanctions, as the Free Member said, to the municipalities? The question I can also ask is: if the government were to lose access to the RPP funds, if it did not update its regional land planning plans, what would happen? In fact, will they or will they not follow this PSD initiative, the trailer from which the other parties came? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u279	There are parliamentary groups that still have time to intervene, but the Bureau no longer registers. If no one else enters, we will immediately close this point. [[Pause.]] We have someone who wants to intervene. For an intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u280	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It seems that in the Assembly of the Republic not all have yet realized what happened between 2015 and 2022, but I am referring again. What was in fact a minority government on the part of the Socialist Party and, with regard to the responsibilities of the same government, what was left to fail to comply with what was on the table with regard to the transformation of plans into programmes. On this subject, we have also heard the intervention by the Socialist Party here, which has indeed not clarified the problem we are facing.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u281	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u282	I will finish, Mr. President. Municipalities cannot be held accountable for non-access to Community funds when this integration of programmes into their respective MDPs has a responsibility, which is the government, which has not developed them.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u283	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u284	I'd like to leave this clarification. therefore the need for these deadlines to be extended so that they can comply with what the legislation itself places. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u285	I am going back to the same question: no one else is going to spend time and, therefore, we call for the end of the debate to the Member of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Luís Gomes — it was the one who opened and it is the one who closes this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u286	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this debate, the Socialist Party, which is the party that supports this government, preferred to use the arrogance of its majority so as not to want to look at the real problems of our country. And the real problem of our country is that, indeed, the government does not set an example in complying with its own legislation. The Government does not set an example in matters such as the planning of the territory, which is so necessary for this country—in recent weeks, unfortunately, it has been able to demonstrate how important the matters of the planning of the territory are — and therefore imposes the weight of its majority through a decree-law, in order not to have to discuss with the people, in order not to have to discuss with this House, in order not to have to discuss with the interveners and with the municipalities. The Government has drawn up the National Territorial Planning Policy Programme, but, according to the Legal Regime of Territorial Management Instruments, it could not do so without the parliamentary assessment of the State Report on Territorial Management. The same legal regime states that, from two to two years, the Government must submit to Parliament the report on the state of the planning of the territory, but to date, seven years have passed! - He never did. Moreover, the legislation that is in force says that the revision of the National Territorial Policy Programme could not be carried out without these plans having come to Parliament's attention in this House. What is actually happening and what is at stake is somehow we want to interfere with this bill to just end with a sanction that makes no sense, a sanction in which the government seeks to impose on municipalities what the government itself does not do.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u287	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u288	Even to finish, Mr President, the Socialist Party Member is President of the Portimão Municipal Assembly and the Portimão PDM, which dates from 1995 was not revised, not because of Portimão's chamber, but because it is impossible for any mayor in the Algarve to review their PDMs with a completely outdated PROT. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u289	thus, we close down the third point of our agenda. We move on to the fourth point of the agenda, which has as its starting point the Draft Resolution No. 276 / XV / 1. a ( IL ) — By suspension of extradition agreements with the People's Republic of China and Hong Kong, as recommended by the European Parliament. This draft resolution drags draft resolution No 286 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government undertake urgent assessment of the implications of the National Security Act applicable in Hong Kong, adopted by the Standing Committee of the National People's Assembly of China on 30 June 2020, in the relevant agreements concluded between Portugal and Hong Kong, within the framework of asylum, migration, visas and residence policies and in the fundamental rights of the Portuguese community residing in that territory. To launch the debate and present draft resolution No. 276 / XV / 1. the, has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u290	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: They passed, exactly today, 23 years of the transition of sovereignty of Macau ; it was on 19 December 1999 that Portugal left the administration of that territory. Many speak of Portugal's secular relationship with China, being Macau's maximum example of this relationship, which brings us added responsibilities. But these responsibilities can never be confused with subservience, nor should they ever ignore the values in which we build up as a people and as a nation. For the third time in three years, the Liberal Initiative presents its project again for the end of extradition agreements with China and Hong Kong. For the third time, we return to a debate that is central to the definition of our foreign policy and our attitude, as a country, before the defence of human rights. I recall the beginning of this whole process: the signing of the extradition law by the Hong Kong Executive, the protests of the population and the consequent brutal repression by the Chinese Communist Party Government. Since then, the passing of events has given us even more reason. China is, today, even more authoritarian towards its citizens, more aggressive at the international level and more arrogant than the democratic world. The invasion of Ukraine has taught us what the real consequences of the maintenance of dependencies in relation to powers which are not reflected in a multilateral order based on rules. China will come next and Portugal is one of the most exposed countries in Europe. This is a legacy of various governments, current and past, who thought that it was possible to ignore the challenge China represents for our institutions and for our country. Finally, we have the very serious case of informal teams, whose existence has already been recognized by the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs itself — although not admitting the whole scope of the activity of these informal teams — and which are being investigated in a number of countries in the West, but the Portuguese Government continues not to give its opinion on this subject. Portugal thus continues increasingly alone in its lyrical approach to China's interests. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members:Today, we have before us a judgment of the European Court of Human Rights stating that all citizens subject to extradition to China are at risk of torture or ill-treatment. The question today is in principle. It is not enough to relegate the decision on extradition cases to the courts, as Mr Foreign Minister has defended in this House, when no other country in Europe is willing to leave human rights to the courts in respect of these agreements. We remember that we are the only country in Europe to maintain these two active extradition agreements.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u291	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u292	The decision, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is political, it is a choice of the Portuguese Government in the protection of all those who live, or they want to reside in Portugal and its strategic alignment, which cannot be the same after all we know. Is it a decision to be taken: do we really want to be the only country in the European Union that maintains these two active extradition agreements? Let the debate come. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u293	To present draft resolution No 286 / XV / 1. a, of the NAP, has the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u294	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this debate on the defence of human rights in international relations, in particular with the People's Republic of China — which we are accompanying — we would like to begin by condemning the atrocities that have been committed, particularly against the Uighur people, and the impact of the new National Security Act, which brings unacceptable conditions to freedom of expression, demonstration and press, and consequently to human rights. This law has completely undermined the autonomy of this region and the safeguarding of human rights. It also provides for life imprisonment sentences for acts of secession, subversion or collusion with foreign forces, which are inadmissible under any democratic regime. A law like this violates China's international commitments and is in line with that old « one country, two systems ». A law like this undermines fundamental rights, including Portuguese citizens residing in Hong Kong. See the case of the Portuguese citizen who, because of a publication in which he criticized the government on social networks, was arrested, without the possibility of exit, for suspicions of sedition crimes. Situations like this cannot be tolerated by Parliament and we cannot accept that they repeat themselves, even less with our fellow citizens. For this reason, the NAP proposes that the Government follow what the Council of Foreign Ministers of the European Union has already determined: the urgent assessment of the implications of the National Security Act in agreements concluded between Portugal and Hong Kong in the context of asylum, migration, visas and residence permits and in the fundamental rights of the Portuguese community resident in that territory. Moreover, we also want to promote, together with the Portuguese community resident in Hong Kong, a debate on the relevance of the suspension of extradition agreements concluded with Hong Kong, which has already been approved in the United Kingdom, Germany, France, the United States of America, Canada, New Zealand and Australia, and recommended by the European Parliament. Human rights cannot, in any way, be subject to constraints, even less economic interests.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u295	These are the legislative initiatives under discussion, and we will move on to the interventions of the other parliamentary and parliamentary groups. To begin with, Mr Rui Tavares, who is the first speaker today, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u296	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This draft resolution of the Liberal Initiative, and also that of the NAP, which we follow without any reservation, are just and topical initiatives; not only because, when there are no guarantees of good treatment for people who are extradited to territories under Chinese jurisdiction—either in China itself or Hong Kong—can not Portugal automatically extradite citizens to these territories, such as the hardening of the treatment of opposition in China and in territories under Chinese jurisdiction, must lead to raising our level of demand and surveillance. Moreover, and because Mr Rodrigo Saraiva began to mention Macau, we would like to go further and launch the challenge so that, in this House, parliamentary groups and parties represented here who have the same concerns also raise the level of demand, for themselves and for this House, in relation to the treatment of human rights issues in Macau. It is not normal for Portugal to have obligations under international law in relation to Macau, which we do not have at least a subcommittee to monitor Macau or a permanent working group on human rights in Macau. This, when we have fellow citizens who are subject to political repression in China and fellow Members who lose their mandate for absolutely empty reasons, only a few days after they have taken possession.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u297	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u298	Time's up!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u299	I think it is a challenge that we should embrace and I hope there are many people in this House who want to do so. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u300	We shall continue with the interventions and Mr Paulo Pisco has the floor by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u301	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Liberal Initiative and the NAP call on Parliament to discuss human rights issues, calling for the suspension of extradition agreements between Portugal and the People's Republic of China, with the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. However, this debate is also about the guarantees of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, on the values in which our judicial system and on the European Union are based, particularly on the European Parliament's resolution on the new European Union-China strategy, which is used here improperly to attack Portugal. The Liberal Initiative unjustly accuses the Socialist Party of devaluation of human rights in China and the recommendations of the European Parliament, as it opposes the suspension of extradition agreements. He even believes, in his resolution, that Portugal could hand over to the Chinese authorities, in an acephala form, political opponents, dissidents, activists and other individuals, but these accusations are dishonest, because they make a distorted reading of those recommendations in the part concerning the appeal to the Member States to suspend existing extradition treaties and also because they unduly diminish the robustness of the agreements and the independence of the Portuguese judicial system. [[Protests by IL Bernardo Blanco.]] We welcome all the debates on human rights, which are fundamental in order to avoid the erosion of the humanist matrix of our society and the intransigent defense of human dignity, especially in these times so troubled by the advance of extremist populisms and movements. But this must be an honest debate and without tricks and that is not what brings us the Liberal Initiative, so great is its obsession with being more human rights defender than other parties, omitting the link between the remaining paragraph of the recommendation and the consistency of the agreements which Portugal has signed.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u302	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u303	And the rest of the paragraph states that the suspension must be made whenever extradition puts the person at risk of cruel and degrading treatment or when the request is made on the basis of political accusations, among other matters. It is thus perceived that the Liberal Initiative prefers a logic of blind confrontation, without looking at contexts, and does not believe in the good sense of diplomacy or the humanist values of Portuguese law, which, in our view, does not benefit from a consequent approach to international relations. And it is also clear that it does not recognize or believe in the direction, now much more assertive, of the European Union in relation to China, including in the defence of human rights. [[Protests by IL Bernardo Blanco.]] Indeed, Portugal's extradition agreements with China and Hong Kong's Special Administrative Region are important instruments of cooperation, but in such matters the defence of fundamental rights could not be well safeguarded. There is neither, nor can there be, any automatic extradition for China, because the Portuguese judicial system has preserved for itself all autonomy and independence in the decision to extradite, based on the protection of the person claimed by a comprehensive set of guarantees. These guarantees are based on mandatory and optional grounds to refuse extradition, with broad scope of interpretation by the judicial authorities,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u304	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u305	... where it is believed that the request has been made to punish someone by virtue of ethnicity, religion, sex, nationality or political convictions, or whenever the request for extradition brings into question sovereignty, security or other public interests, if it is contrary to the fundamental principles of domestic law and even humanitarian considerations. There can never be extradition from someone to whom the death penalty may be applied, life imprisonment or imprisonment for indefinite time. These are principles and values widely respected in the agreements concluded which govern Portuguese law and are an integral part of our humanist matrix. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] We do not know, therefore, whether the Liberal Initiative has forgotten to read the extradition agreements or if it was hoped that no one would read them so as not to spoil its image as a magnificent human rights defender, intrepid against everything and against all. We consider it very important to have weight...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u306	Yeah, the others are wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u307	Mr. Paulo Pisco, give me a moment, just to ask Mr. Bernardo Blanco, please let Mr. Paulo Pisco say what he has to say. You will eventually have the opportunity to ask you a question. We'll wait to see. You would like to continue, Mr President. [[PS Members' laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u308	Are you laughing? You have a joke!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u309	Thank you very much, Mr President. We consider it very important to think about the relationship between Portugal and China, a relationship that over time has been based on mutual friendship and respect, a balanced and mutually beneficial cooperation in which Portuguese citizens or Portuguese origin in Macau, Hong Kong and mainland China are a central element to consider and protect, as well as the depth of our political-diplomatic, economic and cultural relations.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u310	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u311	Ah! After all, it's money!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u312	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u313	Yes, Mr. President. The truth is that Portugal and the European Union have failed to take appropriate positions with regard to the multiple dimensions of relations with China, which is a great power and strategic partner for the European Union and Portugal. The logic of inconsequential confrontation with nations is not beneficial to anyone, nor will that be our way. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u314	They're applauding concentration camps!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u315	Don't exaggerate!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u316	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u317	For an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Tiago Moreira de Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u318	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Political decision makers are often obliged to remember the injunction of Cardinal de Richelieu, according to which states have no immortality and their salvation is now or never. Not having an immortal soul, States should not be embarrassed by the dictates of ethics and morals. We are in the field of dichotomy realism and idealism, dominant in international relations. The idealists see the world as they wanted it to be and not as it is, which leads to the adoption of wrong policies that often end badly; the realistics see the world as it is, forgetting what it should be, and in doing so, they do not understand change and never change anything. The complete realistic discharge of the responsibilities of choice, abandoning itself to the inexorable logic of historical causality. The complete idealist strips himself of the means of understanding reality, abandoning the fantasy of his ideals. The idealist confuses the journey with the road on which he walks. The realist, just looking at the road, doesn't see where he's going. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u319	The draft resolutions submitted by the Liberal Initiative and the NAP are part of the idealistic tradition of international relations. This has the merit of enabling us to be faithful to our principles and offers us the opportunity to regain our moral superiority in defending our fundamental values. However, we must admit that States relate to an anarchic international system and that, above all, they have to defend their interests because, if they do not do so, there is nothing more or no one else to do so for them. Without abdicating ourselves from being idealistic, we should look at the issue raised by these realistic resolution projects, taking into account the interests of Portugal and the place in which they occupy China. It is undeniable that there are crucial times of transition of power in the international system today. The United States and China are increasingly assuming themselves as the only two great world powers, and no country can be immune to the effects of this systemic change. We cannot ignore the facts. China is the second largest world economy, with enormous projection power of its global economic interests. In its relationship with Portugal, China is the fifth most invested country in the Portuguese economy, representing 6, 8 % of the total investment and being well in front of countries such as the United States. Looking at Portugal’s extradition agreements with Hong Kong and the People’s Republic of China, the Liberal Initiative’s motion for a resolution sees in them an open door by which the Portuguese State may be obliged to deliver suspects to regimes where death and life imprisonment penalties apply or where persecution for political crimes is known. from a legal point of view, this position has no basis. A brief analysis of the agreements makes it clear that, through them, Portugal does not yield a millimeter in relation to its fundamental principles and values, deeply rooted in the defence of human rights. Article 4. the extradition agreement between Portugal and Hong Kong establishes that an extradition request may be refused if the criminal offence corresponds to the death penalty or the life imprisonment penalty. Similarly, Article 3 ( 1 ( h ). that of the extradition agreement between Portugal and China establishes as the imperative basis for the refusal of the request for extradition any execution of an application in question, and I quote « fundamental principles of its domestic law ». Both of these provisions comply with the fundamental guarantees recorded in the sacred stone of Article 33. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. With regard to political crimes, the two extradition agreements provide as a mandatory ground for refusal of the request to have grounds for believing that the infringement is of a political nature or that the purpose is to pursue and punish a person on account of his race, religion, nationality or political convictions. Embark on the path of the civil hostility of the People's Republic of China or instrumentalize a fundamental mechanism of international cooperation in the name of the protection of values and principles which are not called into question by its provisions does not serve neither the interests nor the values of Portugal. This understood him even the toughest men in the Cold War who, even at the height of the bipolar cleavage, initiated the relaxation policy, based on the idea that an ideological geopolitical conflict is not incompatible with the establishment of a set of areas of cooperation with regard to common interests and threats. We can, we must and will continue to stand firm in the defence of freedom, democracy, human rights and the rule of law all over the globe, but we must recognize that the excess of idealism often results in the secondaryization of the well-being, prosperity and security of peoples. As a well-known phrase says, what a statesman can never do is look at the ruins of his country and say « I never lie». [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u320	Mr Diogo Pacheco de Amorim.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u321	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As regards the two draft resolutions under consideration, it is to be said that the 1997 agreement, in which Hong Kong allegedly ensured broad autonomy vis-à-vis China, is worth all the agreements with communist regimes. I mean, nothing! History teaches us this and it only didn't learn who didn't want to learn. Only in the light of this type of voluntary blindness do they include the signatures of the Agreement between the Government of the Portuguese Republic and the Government of the Special Administrative Region of Hong Kong, the People's Republic of China, on the Delivery of Offenders in Flight, and the Treaty between the Portuguese Republic and the People's Republic of China on Extradition. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u322	Yes, ladies and gentlemen. Members, because the motto « one country, two regimes» has not passed from one more of the many usual techniques of communist regimes to get them to embark as traveling companions another legion of those useful idiots so expensive to Lenin.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u323	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u324	Names are changed, but hard reality remains. Trotskyism, socialism with human face, cavanism, Bolivarianism are more than transparent masks of a reality that, over a century, has left behind a wide trail of death, misery and destruction.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u325	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u326	Communism, pure and hard.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u327	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u328	By being fully and fully aware of this reality the Arrival has already voted in favour of two draft resolutions submitted by the Liberal Initiative, one in 2020 and the other in 2021. For the same reason, we will vote in favour of the draft resolutions presented here today. Because, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it will be painful to have to return to a totalitarian regime those who seek, outside the scope of that regime, an area of autonomy, achievement and freedom. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u329	You now have the floor, for an intervention by the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr José Moura Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u330	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the Left Block there are three facts which are evident. First, China is today one of the main centres of capitalist accumulation worldwide, with violent processes of extraction of value. Secondly, China has a politically authoritarian regime that does not respect freedom of trade union organization, political freedom, right to strike, freedom of press and other fundamental human rights. Thirdly, the Public Security Act adopted in 2020 in Hong Kong — a law that criminalizes practices framed by categories as problematic as that of subversive activities — has been an instrument of arbitrary exercise of power and a weapon of repression of political criticism, journalistic freedom and social dissident. It's not like we found this right now. We have not come to this understanding since NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ) changed its strategic concept. For many years we have not had any vocation for silence on the nature of the Chinese regime and on violations of basic human rights and freedom.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u331	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u332	unlike other parties, from the benches to the left benches, we do not bow to visit China or to receive their dignitaries in Portugal. We fight those who do not respect the right to strike, freedom of the press or the right of opinion. When the Chinese Government instituted censorship in Macau through the broadcasting directives that prohibited criticism of the regime and the disclosure of policies contrary to what the Chinese regime considered to be the truth, the Block denounced this violation of civil rights, including by violating the agreement between Portugal and China on Macau. And we welcome the young people who fight for democracy and freedom from the outset, condemning the authorities who persecute and arrest them. in a vote presented in 2019 — which had the votes against the PS, the PSD, the PCP, the ENP and the abstentions of the CDS and the Arrival —, we argue that the Assembly of the Republic should take a firm and unequivocal position in the defence of human rights and support for all those who fight for democracy in Hong Kong. Protesters and their courage and persistence also forced the head of the Hong Kong Executive to retreat this year, but police repression has been a constant, with hundreds and hundreds of prisoners, even doctors who, in these protests, tried to treat the wounded demonstrators. We already know that great principles often fit in the definition of concrete positions to the fear of belliscating powerful economic interests, of disturbing Chinese capital, of triggering the sad choreography of realpolitik, which throws human rights under the carpet. This Parliament has never told us about this ritual of silence, cynicism and accommodation, whether about repressed protesters or about the possibility of extradite states to dissidents for authoritarian regimes. in this coherence, we lack neither memory nor appreciation for democracy and freedom, here or anywhere in the world. And that's how we keep going. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u333	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u334	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The treaty between Portugal and the People's Republic of China on extradition, signed in January 2007, was approved in this Assembly on 6 March 2009, with the votes in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, CDS and ENP, and was ratified by decree of the President of the Republic, Aníbal Cavaco Silva, in April 2009. The People's Republic of China is one of 86 countries with which Portugal has an extradition treaty and in this situation are countries of all continents and with the most diverse political systems. This treaty, like all others, was concluded in the context of international judicial cooperation in criminal matters and is governed, as it could not fail to be, by the Portuguese constitutional rules and by the Portuguese law on international judicial cooperation in criminal matters. The advantage of having an extradition agreement with any country has to do with the speeding up of procedures in the contact between the judicial authorities of the countries concerned and does not imply any obligation to extradite any person, wherever he is or why he is on the margins of the application of Portuguese law or to the revival of the decisions of the Portuguese judicial authorities. Thus, in order for someone under the treaty in force to be extradited to China, the request must be made for the practice of a crime punishable by Portuguese law. Extradition will be refused, among other reasons, if the Portuguese judicial authorities consider there are grounds to believe that the accusation is based on any racial, sexual, religious or political discrimination or if the execution of extradition is considered contrary to the fundamental principles of Portuguese law. That is why it is clear that the decision to extradite someone to China, or anywhere in the world, is always a sovereign decision of the Portuguese judicial authorities and only in accordance with Portuguese law. This is valid for China or any other country in the world. It is evidence that if Julian Assange were in Portugal he would not be extradited to the United States of America, insofar as the persecution that is targeted in that country and the prison sentence that can be applied to him contravene fundamental principles of a rule of law like ours. All this is written, black in white, in the Portuguese Constitution, in Portuguese legislation on judicial cooperation in criminal matters and in the treaty itself existing between Portugal and China on extradition. The problem is not the IL or the NAP do not understand this, because they understand perfectly — or, indeed, the other competitors in this regard. The problem is that, quite simply, there is a strategy to follow and implement, a strategy for the containment and antagonization of China, which has nothing to do with the defence of democracy and human rights, but with the ultimate concern of the United States of America and its subordinate allies, to defend and perpetuate a world hegemony that is threatened by the natural development process of other countries, in particular China. Finally, Mr President: these are the motivations that the proponents and other competitors prefer to follow diligently, even with the sacrifice of the interests of Portugal and, in this case, even with the sacrifice of combating crime internationally. They don't count on us for that service, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u335	For an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u336	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I just want to make it clear that the Arrival, as Mr. Diogo Pacheco de Amorim has said, will not impermissible and will vote in favour of this project of the Liberal Initiative. However, we wanted to warn that, firstly, this is not the proper way to rewrite extradition treaties. This is not the correct parliamentary mechanism, nor is it the appropriate legal form to review or suspend an agreement of an extradition nature. Second, and once again stressing the commitment of the Arrival to enable this project, it is necessary to remember that the Portuguese State has extradition agreements—and I will remind this House — with countries such as Cuba, Venezuela, Peru. It is part of the Ibero-American network of judicial cooperation with countries such as Honduras, where opponents are eliminated in light of the day, and Bolivia, which we all know how it ended last year, or Peru, we know how it is now. The advance on this road would have to force the review of all or the suspension of much of the extradition treaties that Portugal has with countries of Latin America or Asia, and this would never be done through a draft resolution. On the other hand, there is an equally relevant issue and it is not something else to arrive at. The immediate suspension of extradition treaties with China or with any of its administrative regions would immediately lead to the same suspension of the mechanisms for cooperation and extradition by the People's Republic of China. This would mean that any João Rendeiro of this life could take refuge in China, without fear of being extradited to Portugal. These are too serious issues to be discussed in a draft resolution or how the Liberal Initiative wants to bring it here. So let us return to what we have come: the political object is fundamental and we do not cease to be next to the Liberal Initiative. The way this initiative presents is of some legal amateurism and constitutional amateurism,... [[Propose it!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u337	... blind to the interests of the Portuguese State and that if it was approved today, tomorrow or in a week, it would generate a paradise of impunity between the People's Republic of China and Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u338	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u339	I will finish, Mr. President. That is why, because we understand that the political signal to be given is clear, but that legal issues are equally relevant, it must be, in its own right, and in the case of specific development of an autonomous legislative process, that this process must be done, and in this way we only give a political signal, without any vitality or consequence. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u340	I believe that we are in a position to move on to the closure of this fourth point. Thus, those 45 seconds that are still remaining for the Liberal Initiative add up to the two minutes you have to close this debate. To close the debate, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u341	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it was unfortunately so predictable that the debate that took place here, which I did not need to take many notes, in addition to those that had already been planned for this final intervention. And I close this debate starting at the beginning. What we have before us is a matter of principle. China is a country with a heavy history, too heavy with regard to human rights. Whether with the policy 'covid zero' or with the genocide of the Uighur minority in Xinjiang, the Chinese Communist Party has already given us all the signs we need to form our opinion — political opinion. However, the arguments presented to us relegate to the courts what is political. In other words, Portugal could have extradition agreements with all the dictatorships of the globe, thus washing its hands and leaving the rest to the courts. Why not, Mr. Paulo Pisco, extradition agreements also with North Korea? We're sure he'd have the support of a bench, at least. However, we cannot use the courts to mask the one that has been a deliberate option of approach to China by several governments. And the PS, which has ruled for seven years, continues to bet on Chinese investment as guarantor of Portugal's external direct investment level, rather than bet on an even more attractive business environment for other investors because it is easier. It prefers the immediate benefits to our future economic and geopolitical resilience, and invokes a secular relationship that does not hold us nor should it tie us to the Chinese Communist Party's internal and external policy options. The foreign policy of a country, of course, has limits and limitations. Defence and respect for human rights must always be a beacon of foreign policy. The Government cannot, on Monday, affirm its alignment with the European Union's Strategic compass, which recognises China as a strategic rival ; on Tuesday endorses the new NATO strategic concept, which highlights the challenges raised by the same regime ; and then on Wednesday comes to defend the « deepening of political, economic and social ties » with China, and I am quoting government documents.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u342	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u343	They also talk about idealism. We speak of realism: from Tibet, from the Uighurs, from Hong Kong — Hong Kong, where a Portuguese citizen, a student, was arrested in September 2020 and another Portuguese citizen, in November 2022, was arrested and arrested for merely expressing that they did not agree with the government. I end by asking those who like to say "in the European Union's policy", again: do we really want to be the only country in the European Union that maintains these two extradition agreements? It's politics we're talking about here. It's political! [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u344	We will now move on to the fifth item on the agenda, which consists in the general assessment of the Bill No 87 / XIV / 2. a ( ALRAM ) — About the allocation of insularity allowance, together with Bill Nos 350 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Eliminates inequalities in the allocation of the attachment supplement to staff of the Prison Guard Corps in functions in autonomous regions ( fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 3 / 2014 of 9 January ) and 391 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Ensures the insularity allowance for all public officials of the Autonomous Regions of Madeira and the Azores. I immediately address Mrs Alma Rivera to submit Bill No 350 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ).
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u345	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill from the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, which determined the scheduling of this important matter today, refers to an aspect which is subject to the various projects currently under discussion, and that of the CFP is not an exception. "Distant insularity involves overcosts, in the comparison with the Portuguese continent, for the exercise of the same activities, in access to goods and services, not always easy to qualify and much less quantify. In general, the price level of the goods necessary for consumption reaches a higher level than that found on the continent. Do not keep on seeking. ” Therefore, until the end of the year 2000, a fixation supplement was paid to the elements of the Prison Guard Corps that were located in the autonomous regions. Until then, this allowance has been effectively paid to all prison guards to perform functions in the autonomous regions. However, from 2001 onwards, it ceased to pay to prison guards who at the time of their placement were residents on the island where the prison establishment is located in which they perform duties. That is, they lost and the rest kept the supplement, and anyway, well. This discrimination between workers who effectively perform the same service was only aggravated when, in 2012, the General Directorate of Prison Services was merged with the Institute of Social Integration (IRS ), since all workers of the former IRS, to serve in the autonomous regions, received and just continued to receive the insularity allowance, leaving out only a part of the effectives of the Prison Guard Corps. From there to here, there was even a special opportunity to correct inequality at the time of the review of the Statute of the Prison Guard Corps in 2014 which was not taken advantage of, so discrimination remained. Today we bring here a project aimed at solving this particular injustice, without prejudice to following the idea that this supplement covers the workers of justice and the elements of the services and security forces in the autonomous regions in general. The CFP Parliamentary Group believes that there is a need to establish justice that there is no wage discrimination between the employees of the Directorate-General for Reintegration and Prison Services to serve in the autonomous regions, since the costs of insularity are also reflected in the living conditions of all of them and, in this sense, the fixing supplement must be paid to all prison guards to serve in the autonomous regions, regardless of their origin. [[PCP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u346	To present the draft law of the Arrival, Mr. Pedro Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u347	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill we bring today the discussion is really important for those who live in the archipelagos of Madeira and the Azores. Geographical isolation, the most unstable climate and even its size deprive autonomous regions of the benefits of economies of scale. This adds to the fact that costs are increased in relation to energy, infrastructure, transport and telecommunications, as well as the difficulty of training and setting human resources, particularly of specialized professionals who are so lacking in schools, hospitals, health centres or police stations. In both archipelagos, there is a shortage of labour and sometimes also a shortage of medicines. There are great difficulties even in interstellar travel. For example, Porto Santo, any specialist doctor only goes once a month and, during the month of January, the ferry that binds Madeira to Porto Santo is in maintenance is not being assured all passenger trips. Porto-santenses cannot be treated as second Portuguese! To the island of Porto Santo could add the one of the Flowers or the Crow, where fresh products do not exist every day. That is why there has long been a claim for insularity, without the Government of the Republic being sensitive to these things. Knowing that the archipelagos have their own autonomy in a number of matters and sometimes several exceptional regimes, which are fully justified by the challenges caused by insularity, the truth is that working in autonomous regions necessarily costs more than the same elements in a similar situation, but working in continental territory. Our initiative is not only more comprehensive than any of the previous initiatives, such as ensuring fairness and justice, because it is intended that all professionals in public administration or in public office in autonomous regions are entitled to be compensated monetaryly, such as all public officials at the service of the Regional Governments of Azores and Madeira, from doctors to teachers, nurses to judicial officials, without forgetting prison guards and police officers. They all deserve this compensation allowance, being a fundamental priority for all families working in the health, safety, justice or education sectors. They are the trade unions themselves that require better working conditions, and this is a fundamental proposal for the various sectors, particularly to improve the lives of people, those displaced on the islands and also those who were born and raised there. We will follow the proposals of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira and also of the CFP. However, we believe that the proposals should be more ambitious, to cover a larger range of society and to put an end to this injustice. It will be interesting to see how the Socialist Party will vote and whether it will continue to deny all the proposals of the Comes by mere political ideology. It will be even more curious to see what the illusionist trick they will make, when they have to explain to the Macedonians and the Portuguese people, in the elections of 2023 to the Legislative Assembly of Madeira, how they could vote against this proposal which aims to help their lives, at a time and in a difficult economic situation, in a region that continues with the highest risk of poverty in the country, being the Madeirans who are closer to the threshold of poverty. Surely the Government of the Republic will not be proud of this. He'll be there to deal with you. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u348	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u349	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate we are discussing results from an initiative of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira. The same concern and a similar proposal was discussed and approved in the Autonomous Region of the Azores and its foundations are found to be the lack of security forces elements in the autonomous regions, the discrimination of prison and social reintegration workers, the difficulty in establishing close public services in the outermost regions and the demands of justice professionals, who want to guarantee the right to compensation. These problems, or this discrimination, have the known consequences of shortage of professionals, with teams closed at the end of the week, such as in the Autonomous Region of the Azores, with the criminalization of citizens in their protection and safety, in the registration of occurrences, in the complaints of citizens and citizens and in access to justice. In fact, the costs underlying the island condition justify compensating measures for those who guarantee public services of State competence in autonomous regions. Without the recognition of these increased costs, associated with the condition of insularity, there would be no compensation due to the insularity allowance and a genuine national coverage of all public services would be involved. It is therefore incomprehensible that not all public servants in the autonomous regions benefit from the insularity allowance, witnessing an inequality of treatment that is urgent to correct. In the Autonomous Region of Madeira, of course, but also in the Azores, what exists today is an unexplained and unsustainable inequality in treatment, for example, among the elements of the security forces of the different islands of the same region. This lack of recognition of the insularity condition to all elements of the security forces favours a discretionary system. Enlarging, valuing and uniformizing the amount of insularity allowance, reducing bureaucracy and making the allocation of this insularity allowance automatic is what must be done. These proposals will not, perhaps and certainly, solve all the problems and difficulties in this area, but they respond to an unsustainable negative discrimination that is currently taking place. They contribute these projects and proposals to make the establishment of these professionals more effective and attractive in these regions of the national territory. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u350	For an intervention on behalf of the NAP, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u351	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Constitution provides that the Portuguese State is unitary. It also provides that the State is obliged to promote the harmonious development of the entire national territory and that the economic and social development of autonomous regions must be ensured, in cooperation with the governmental bodies themselves, with a view in particular to correcting the inequalities arising from insularity. The Constitution is still based on principles of equality, cooperation and national solidarity, which must be present in all public policies. Therefore, the inequalities and increased costs resulting from geographical isolation and from the vulnerabilities arising there must, in our view, be mitigated and corrected, which means that the right of all public servants to obtain compensation for such costs is a matter of social justice. In some cases, it is necessary to respect equality and equity between civil servants who perform functions in the autonomous regions and to correct other situations, such as the elements of the security forces and services. We know that insularity affects all workers without exception and, agreeing that mechanisms should be promoted to ensure that insularity is compensated and corrected in a general way, it is also true that this foundation should not serve as an excuse for the possibility of at least covering workers in public functions to be corrected.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u352	To speak on behalf of the IL, you have the floor of Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u353	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Liberal Initiative comprises the circumstance that insularity brings and the added challenges of citizens of our autonomous regions, in particular at the level of prices and the cost of living, whether they are residents from birth, they are people who have moved to reside in those regions. The isolation, difficulty and costs associated with access to the territory are obvious reasons that distinguish the islands from the mainland. It is also understood that when compared with workers of equivalent categories at national level, workers in the autonomous regions have increased costs, which are not borne by workers in the same functions in national territory. However, it should be borne in mind that the costs of insularity, inflation and costs associated with transport are cross-cutting. They are costs that both come out of the public sector workers' pockets, and they come out of the private sector workers' pockets. And therefore, some should not be positively discriminated against others by the mere fact that their employer is the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u354	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u355	On the other hand, the Liberal Initiative has never adhered or acceded to this policy of support and subsidies, the sole aim of which is to increase the dependence of the State rather than to promote the real appreciation of the citizens of our autonomous regions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u356	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u357	For this reason, we believe that the initiatives under discussion do not respond to the needs of horizons and economic growth of populations in the island territory, as well as to include unjustified discrimination between public officials and employees in the private sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u358	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u359	In conclusion, I also want to say that the bills dragged with this proposal, both that of the PCP and that of the Arrival, are more of the same and are proof that the extremes are attracted. The PCP and the Arrival can be more socialist than the Socialists themselves... [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] ... and everything they present always has the same solution: state and more state. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u360	To speak by the Socialist Party, Mr. Paulo Araújo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u361	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The short-term priorities set by the Government of the Republic are set out in the proposal for a State Budget Act and the commitments already made with trade union structures representing employees of the Public Administration. These priorities were reflected in the cross-cutting increase in employees' remuneration in public service and in the enhancement of the two-degree careers of complexity. This put, and without prejudice to this framework, the diplomas under discussion seem to ignore that many of the costs inherent to the insularity they want to see safeguarded are already dealt with in their own legislation. Indeed, with regard to security forces, mobility compensation is already provided for in the case of PSP ( Public Security Police ) and a residency supplement in the case of GNR ( Republican National Guard ), providing for an increase in the case of transfers to autonomous regions. In the same way, judicial officials serving in the courts located in the districts of the autonomous regions benefit from a fixation supplement of 204, 51 €.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u362	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u363	This is a monthly supplement, attributed to all the judicial officials placed there. Also in the case of prison guards, as the result of the PCP bill itself, there is already provision for the allocation of a fixation allowance to the Guard Corps, without prejudice to the way we admit that there is still to be done so that the same can be extensible to all of these guards. This path, due to obvious imperatives of equality and equal treatment, must be done, ensuring that all guards who perform functions in the autonomous regions receive fixation allowance, thus ensuring justice for these men and women.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u364	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u365	Furthermore, it is also important to remember that the newly approved State budget for 2023 provides for the largest increase in the decade of the basic wages of men and women of the security forces and services,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u366	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u367	... to increase an investment of more than EUR 20 million, which has been approved by the Council of Ministers 15 days ago, which will allow the immediate acquisition of housing for the men and women of the security forces and services and their immediate availability to them.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u368	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u369	You should be ashamed to say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u370	We are well aware that you are protesting there, of the importance of housing for men and women of the security forces, especially for those who are placed in Lisbon. We are well aware of the importance of this investment. [[Very well said!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u371	Let's see!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u372	This bet of the Government of the Republic will be reinforced by EUR 40 million, of the Recovery and Resilence Programme, for the construction of new dwellings, which will also be made available to these men and women. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u373	At the same time, the Government is also working on the attractiveness of the performance of functions in the security forces, strengthening and improving their working conditions. We are talking about the investment of EUR 607 million in security forces infrastructure and equipment, with EUR 76 million in this programme to be invested by 2022, in an investment that will continue until 2026. All these investments apply, of course, to the men and women of the security forces and services placed in the autonomous regions. We conclude by saying that the Regional Government of Madeira has already received money transferred from the State budget to meet the costs of insularity, thus translating national solidarity towards autonomous regions in the transfers of the State budget provided for in the legislation in force, not into unfair measures, such as those presented to us here. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u374	To speak by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u375	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This initiative of the Regional Parliament of Madeira calls on us to speak of an injustice and inequality which takes time to be resolved by the Assembly of the Republic. The central public administration workers who perform functions in the autonomous regions are the only ones, I repeat, the only ones who do not benefit from an insularity allowance, which is a huge injustice, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. We are talking about judicial officials, the Prison Guard Corps, security services, PSP and GNR, Maritime Police, Judicial Police, SEF (Foreign and Border Service), customs and customs workers, among many others. We're talking, ladies and gentlemen. Members, of people who know very well what it is to live on the islands, who feel daily the difficulties and costs of this experience and who, unlike the other officials of the regional administration, do not take any compensation to cope with the increased costs resulting from insularity. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is no reason to justify this injustice, this difference of treatment between central and regional government workers. It makes no sense this inequality between public officials with the same difficulties, with and without the insularity allowance. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is no longer the first time that Parliament has been called upon to pronounce itself on this injustice and on this inequality. From 2001 to the present, there have been several initiatives presented by both the PSD and the PSD members elected by the Madeira circle, in the budget office, with a view to putting an end to this injustice. From 2001 until now, more than seven initiatives have been taken by the regional parliaments for the same purpose. These initiatives, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who have either expired, without even being discussed, or were always, but always rejected with the vote against the Socialist Party. [[PSD applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, since I have taken up my duties as a Member of this House, I have associated myself with this struggle and this fair claim for correcting this injustice to the central government officials who perform their duties in Madeira. In the last seven years, there have been several regulatory questions sent to the Government, many of the hearings, opinions and proposals we have put forward on this important issue. In the last budget, we again tabled a proposal to grant the insularity allowance to all officials of the central administration in Madeira, which was reprobated by the Socialist Party, but we will not give up until this injustice is corrected. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, for 21 years Parliament has been reluctant to acknowledge and resolve this injustice. For 21 years Parliament has been reluctant to recognize and affirm insularity as a specific factor in the conditions of island spaces. Although it is commonly accepted that living in an island and outermost region implies increased costs, which are reflected in the cost of living of its populations — the so-called 'insularity costs' — despite being recognized by the constitutional legislator, particularly as a fundamental task of the State, the fact remains that it remains to be approved. It is never too much to mention and to remember, ladies and gentlemen. Members, whom the 1976 Constitution recognizes and establishes a special status for the archipelagos of Madeira and the Azores, in which the hardships resulting from insularity have a significant weight in the financial responsibilities of the State, in order to ensure unity and continuity in national territories, appearing as costs of insularity and development. These principles, ladies and gentlemen. Members, they should generate financial obligations on the part of the State, which delay to be operationalized and systematized, such as the fair demand under discussion. Unfortunately, as we have seen, Parliamentary history reveals that the majority of the Members and the Members. Members have not been sensitive to the affirmation of insularity, to the correction of this injustice and to the ways of national and Community constitutional law. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Parliament now has a new opportunity to do justice and to correct this inequality. Insularity involves overcosts that oblige compensation through the consecration of this insularity allowance.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u376	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u377	It is now in the hands of each of the ladies and gentlemen. Members do what is right: affirm insularity and correct this injustice, once and for all, to the civil servants of the central administration of Madeira. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Members, regretting that the Socialist Party has once again become isolated in this debate and has again demonstrated that it is against the insularity and against the defense of the Autonomous Regions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u378	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u379	Unfortunately, it is truly regrettable this position of the Socialist Party, which, of course, is being accompanied by the Macedonians and the Port-saints. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u380	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for a speech on behalf of the Free Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u381	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The country has an obligation for itself to ensure territorial cohesion and to ensure that those who face costs associated with interiority, in some cases, or insularity, as in the cases we are discussing here, can be compensated. This is especially important when it comes to security forces agents, judicial officials, prison guards, among others, of which the Autonomous Regions are deficient. Many times, they have to redeploy their lives from the continent to the islands, and they need to be rewarded for it. This is our national responsibility for autonomous regions with the support and solidarity of the Government of the Republic. Recently, the Liberal Initiative’s bench asked: “What happens when, in a couple, one spouse works for the private sector and the other for the public and both go to the Autonomous Regions, and there can be no discrimination between them? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” I believe that the issue is not being well understood, because it should be seen on the side of the one who has the responsibility for that worker. In the case of public servants, this responsibility is ours and nothing prevents a private person from doing the same. In fact, the fact that the State does so can be a sign for the private to follow it and also to do so. It seems to me to be a positive sign, but everyone must take care of their responsibilities. This responsibility for cohesion, solidarity and support for the workers who have to move is ours. [[CH Member's protests Filipe Melo.]] in this sense, the Free is on the side of these initiatives of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u382	Mr Pedro Pinto has the floor for a second speech on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u383	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Two of the interventions we have heard here today have been loaded. Starting with the intervention of Mrs. Patrícia Gilvaz of the Liberal Initiative, I would say that there really is a similarity between the Liberal Initiative and the Socialist Party, or even the Communist Party or the Left Block. Why? Because, as soon as we speak in the public sector, let's go to the private, the private, the private! No, Mrs. Member, these are completely different things! It is up to the State — as Mr Rui Tavares said earlier — to set an example. What do we want? Do we want the private sector and businesses to have even more expenditure? Do you think companies on the islands have little expense? Are we going to overburden the companies even more? Is that what the Liberal Initiative wants? The Liberal Initiative has to decide: either one thing or the other, it can't half the bench defend one thing and the other half defend another.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u384	You didn't hear well!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u385	I heard everything, Mrs. Member! I have a good ear and we're next to each other. With regard to Mr. Paulo Araújo Correia, I understand the effort he makes. However, talking about police houses, here in Lisbon, is unworthy, is a shame. The honourable Member should be ashamed to speak about this because of the outrageous conditions in which they live. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Even more, Mr. Deputies. Do you know why you haven't talked about anything about the Autonomous Region of Madeira? It is because you are also ashamed, you have no proposals for the Autonomous Region of Madeira. They've all been down! This is the problem of the Socialist Party: they do not know how they will campaign in 2023.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u386	We work!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u387	This is the great problem of the Socialist Party, which does not know how it will face the Autonomous Region of Madeira in 2023. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u388	The Bureau registered a new request for intervention by Mr Paulo Araújo Correia of the Socialist Party. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u389	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I just wanted to say that it would be interesting if we could hear proposals. When we identify a problem, what is expected, by any political leader, is that it presents solutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u390	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u391	And we presented solutions. I will say this for the last time, to see if I can finally pass the message: the Government of the Republic, 15 days ago, adopted a resolution in the Council of Ministers, which provides for the provision of EUR 20 million for the immediate purchase of housing, which will be immediately made available to security forces and services, making all the difference to men and women who are displaced in Lisbon.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u392	What about Madeira?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u393	This will add EUR 40 million from the Recovery and Resilience Plan for housing construction. These are concrete solutions, Mr President! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u394	What about Madeira?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u395	Defending security forces and services is not to call into question the RASI (Annual Internal Security Report ) numbers, nor is it to call into question the inexhaustible work of the security forces, which ensure that Portugal is one of the safest countries in the world today.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u396	What about Madeira?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u397	Nor is it to defend a minority which, however noisy it may be, by its comments, undermines the bond of trust that has been established between citizens and men and women in the security services for decades. [[P.S.'s applause.]] To appreciate the work of the men and women of the security forces and services, Mr. Pedro Pinto, is to provide for the greatest increase in the basic wages decade.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u398	What about Madeira?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u399	That is how it is valued, with concrete measures, is not raising the voice in the plenary. It is valued by concrete measures, solving in the field the problems of these men and women. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u400	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP, you have the floor, if your colleagues allow it, Mrs Alma Rivera. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u401	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I just wanted to make a few very brief remarks. A Portuguese citizen, irrespective of where he is born — whether in an autonomous region or on the Portuguese continent — should have access to the same rights and well-being that is ensured by the constitutionally defined social functions of the State and by the public services that carry them out. in this sense, I would like to appeal to the consequences of the lack of effective forces and security services and the lack of general staff in the other public services. The fact that the costs of insularity are not being compensated also contributes to this.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u402	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u403	Therefore, we are not talking only about these workers in particular, who must have these costs compensated, we are also talking about the possibility and guarantee that there are public services and social functions throughout the country to be provided in an equal way. Regardless of a deeper discussion that we cannot forget — which is the discussion of the review of pay tables in a more general way, this is because it is not through supplements that will counter the lack of attractiveness of current careers — what cannot happen is the municipal chambers to pay x to get staff fixed in their municipality.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u404	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u405	This cannot happen in a country that has to develop in a balanced way. Therefore, because of its geographical position, the Azores and Madeira are not regions of the interior, but they also need to see the possibilities of development multiplied. in this sense, public investment, public services and the social functions of the state are a lever for development. That is why this investment is worth a more balanced development in our territory. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u406	We thus conclude the fifth item on our agenda. We now move on to the sixth point, which consists in the general assessment of the Bill No 95 / XIV / 2. a ( ALRAM ) — By valuing the ultraperipheral condition of the athlete student — The first amendment is made to Decree-Law No 55 / 2019, April 24. For the first intervention, Mrs Carla Castro of the Liberal Initiative has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u407	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are discussing a topic that I believe to be unanimous, which is the appreciation of sports activity in higher education. in this house, we should also make the life of all young students in this country less complicated. Legal provisions have been detected that raise a problem of realisation for many sports students in the Autonomous Regions. Therefore, in the Committee on Education, Members considered that the proposed law of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira should lack the urgency required. What is at stake is the fact that the decree of law provides for a set of rules which do not meet the conditions of the students of the archipelagos. Due to regional specificities, limitations are imposed on the exercise of their participation in support, travel and access to sporting evidence. I would like to point out that this proposal is much more than improving the conditions of young athletes or referees of national federations. It will be another point of discussion on whether or not there are obstacles to freedom of personal realization, the fruits of talent and the effort of each student in the Autonomous Regions of this country. Paying attention to this proposal is also synonymous with giving importance to the underlying merit of sports activity and its achievements. There are many young people who, throughout the country, start their courses very early in the most diverse forms of sports. I believe that it is also our duty, through our legislative power, to create the right conditions so that all students can freely continue their sport routes during their academic journey. In this case, the students of the archipelagos are often affected by the problem of territorial discontinuity. This proposal thus introduces the concept of a student-athlete in the Autonomous Regions and extends, and well, the application of this statute to all students who are enrolled in the national federations of arbitration of the different modalities. The current decree-law has left out all young people who are engaged in arbitration and who are not an integral part of the competitions. We consider this to be something that must be corrected. It also introduces an amendment to the rights of young people, which translates into the possibility of requiring four annual examinations at a special time of examination, instead of two, as it is currently defined, as well as the possibility, at the beginning of each semester, of requiring the conduct of written or oral evaluation elements in an individualized way. We believe that this is not about facilitating, but about making the higher education system more flexible and decomplicated, as the Liberal Initiative has defended in so many circumstances. in a framework of autonomy of higher education institutions and student associations, which define their own terms of organization and development of sport practice, the Liberal Initiative considers that this measure makes sense, is important and therefore we are available to vote in favour. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u408	Thank you, Mrs Deputy, and thank you, too, for the patience with which you have rallied with the level of noise that is not tolerable. So I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Members who maintain the conditions so that we can all hear each other. Now it is time to take the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u409	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Sport practice, as we well know, plays a key role in our personal dimension, in the training of children and young people, and there is no doubt that, in this respect, the country has undergone a great development in recent decades, recovering from a significant delay in relation to other countries in Europe, despite maintaining low rates of participation and far from desirable. But, like the previous debate, we must also talk about equality here and we must talk about equal development in different regions and insularity. We stress, of course, the importance of physical and sports education in schools and its interdependence with the basic levels of the sports system, including in the Autonomous Regions. That is why the NAP will follow this initiative. It is important to take account not only of the less-favoured regions, such as insularity and, in the specific case of the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira, thus extending the rights of students and athletes in those regions too. The NAP advocates the promotion of cohesion and equity in access to the practice of sport activity, which should be inclusive and accessible to all. That is why we will not fail to follow the proposal presented here by the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, which aims to create a status of the student athlete in higher education.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u410	To speak by the Socialist Party, Mr Tiago Soares Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u411	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party has always been a pioneer in leveraging student rights, in prerogatives for greater extracurricular participation and in differential gambling in sport, culture and the arts, in all higher education institutions. In 2019, we took a fundamental step in the realization of rights: we told students that they would no longer have to choose between dedication to studies and bet on sports training. We have created a statute that has allowed them to reconcile expectations, gain time and balance what is obligation and what is devotion. Through the status of the athlete student, we have won new players, enhanced talents, guaranteed the sports condition a little throughout the country and we have been beneficiaries of great individual and collective achievements that have honored our country and all higher education institutions a lot. This status has come to realize the importance of dual career in university higher education. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we had a vision for sports training, but, basically, we guarantee the fair and necessary balance between the body is and the healthy mind for all those students who wanted to make this choice. This status applies to all athletes who, cumulatively, participate in national championships and competitions, regardless of the region where they run, meet the sporting merit requirements that are applied to them and obtain minimal school use, never putting in evidence any peripheral or ultraperipheral condition. The proposal we are discussing today allows us to reflect on the various challenges and constraints that this law has, but, fundamentally, it allows us to revisit the letter of the law and discern how it can be adapted to the circumstances of the present. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this proposal does not win sufficiently capable arguments, sufficiently unpopular, fair enough to allow us to make an amendment without flagrantly violating the principle of equality established in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. The fact is that the ideas presented in the preamble to the proposal for a Law of the Regional Legislative Assembly of Madeira do not appear substantially sufficient basis for a differentiation in access to the status regime of the student of higher education under more favourable conditions, depending on a greater difficulty in travel after their competitions — considering and given the territorial discontinuity — which could happen in any area of continental Portugal. In addition to the arguments already put forward, there is currently a discussion about the review of the access system for higher education, where the existence of special access quotas for students from the Autonomous Regions has been seen with enormous reservations. Thus, any measure seems unjustified to us to extend the already favourable conditions with which students in the Autonomous Region of Madeira have access to higher education when compared with other regions in the country with a lower level of qualification or without access to public higher education. In this way, we will not follow the proposal, as we have positioned ourselves in this way whenever previous and similar initiatives have come to this House. But there are good clues that this proposal leaves us. And one of these good tracks is the figure of the referee as a sports agent, since the requirements at the level of preparation and participation in national competitions of these agents are similar to those of the various athletes. It is important to remember, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that all competitions and all participations are already funded by the Portuguese State and that higher education institutions can already regulate what is set out in the law to ensure more support to these sports agents, in which referees are also included. By this way, we will continue to guarantee conditions of equality sustained in the unity of the State, so that the dual career is a guarantee and that everyone can freely compete, investing in themselves and bringing glory to our universities and our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u412	To speak by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u413	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With this initiative, adopted unanimously, the Madeira Regional Parliament intends to adapt the status of the national athlete to the needs of the athletes of the Autonomous Regions. We are before an initiative that deserves our recognition, it deserves our approval, given the very noble objective that it aims to guard against. We are talking about promoting the merit of all island students who are dedicated to the practice and promotion of sport and the recognition of their special features. We speak of the promotion of equity of access to the said status and the appreciation of the factor of territorial discontinuity to which they are particularly subject, the result of the constraints on travel to the practice of sports activity. This initiative meets the difficulties of island students athletes, seeking to change and improve access to that athlete's status. We highlight four essential aspects: the introduction of the concept of a student athlete of the Autonomous Regions; the extension of the right to participate in national championships of the sports modalities they are practicing; the possibility of requiring four national exams; and the allocation of a special quota for access to those students. We also highlight the pioneering consecration of rights to the student-abbirator, who at the moment has no legal protection in national law. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this initiative deserves to be approved, our athletes island students deserve minimum rights for their protection, given the architectural dimension of our country and the regional specificities and the manifest insufficiency of the status in force to respond to and respond to the wishes of students of higher education in the Autonomous Regions. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we hope that this initiative — which, if it is said to have no budgetary impact — can also be approved unanimously by the national Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, by the way, the Socialist Party, who even voted favourably in Madeira, changed its opinion. Unfortunately, it often happens when socialist Members cross the Ponta de São Lourenço, which is truly regrettable. Our only certainty is that the Madeirans and the port-saintenses are paying attention and for the year they will give the right answer. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u414	To speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mrs Rita Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u415	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me to say that it is sad to see that the Socialist Party, because it does not want to make the rush to approve a measure of the Democratic Social Party, put its political interests in front of the interests of the Portuguese youth. But as the Socialist Party boasts that you are the pioneer in promoting sports, then I put some numbers on you to see the shame that they should have when they talk in sports: 74% of Portuguese say they never or rarely practice physical exercise; we are 3. the country of the European Union where the main cause for not physical exercise is the lack of financial conditions; one in five young people aged 15 is overweight. Therefore, it is too clear that it is necessary to support and promote sports practice, especially after the pandemic period, which, as you know, has increased sedentaryism.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u416	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u417	In fact, there are active ways of promoting sport and healthy lifestyles. You know what? Do you know how the Socialist Party promotes healthy lifestyles, according to the European Monitoring Centre for Health Policy Systems? Through the tax burden, because, in fact, it highlights the application of high-calorical food and refrigeration taxes. The Socialist Party only knows tax, tax, tax,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u418	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u419	... instead of promoting and educating young people for healthy lifestyles. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The bill we have here today from the Autonomous Region of Madeira is in fact to establish justice. When the status of the high school athlete was created in 2019, he ignored the condition of students from the Autonomous Regions of Madeira and the Azores or who study in these regions. Therefore, it is essential to introduce this concept and also extend this status to students enrolled in the national arbitration federations of the different modalities. Therefore, the arrival follows this proposal, because, yes, a student of higher education in an autonomous region or with origin in the Azores or Madeira but to study on the continent not part of the same starting line of all the other students. These young people find in sporting practice a number of logistical, financial and practical obstacles that a young person from the continent does not find at the start. Therefore, this proposal calls for and demands social, territorial cohesion and, above all, sports justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u420	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u421	It is urgent to provide these young people with more tools. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u422	Then, at this point, we could also say that it is essential that the Socialist Party give more value to university sports and recognize the achievements of these young people. Still this year, the name of Portugal was sacred and was led to the highest of a futsal competition of young university students, where these students and athletes, in addition to the school merit, achieved the sport merit, without particular appreciation. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u423	I would also like to bring the example of Patrícia Mamona, a European champion, a triple jump Olympic deputy champion, who proudly points out that his journey began in school sports. And in its interventions, it calls on educational entities in this country to encourage sports practice in the school and training course, giving as an example the United States, in which athletes mostly come from school and university sports, unlike Portugal which wastes their talents. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u424	This, just and alone, because the Socialist Party does not take sports seriously. Rather than because, now at the blight of mixed bathrooms, they want to introduce the greatest sporting injustice by promoting competition between men and women in the same manner, under the same conditions, when they know that men and women are biologically different. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The Socialist Party also does not dignify the sport practice when, in situations of harassment in women's football, the arrival asks to investigate, to accompany, but leads the presence of Mr. Secretary of State in Parliament, because they say they are already campaigning to combat harassment. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u425	It is therefore urgent for the Socialist Party to dignify sport, which reinforces financial support, which strengthens support for adapted sport—as Mother Teresa says, "they are the forgotten ones"—that creates more conditions for the practice of more modalities, that supports travel and, above all, that recognises Portuguese talents. The young Portuguese don't want greetings and votes from this House, the athletes don't want greetings votes, the athletes want concrete support for their modalities. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u426	To speak on behalf of the PCP, you have the floor of Mrs Alma Rivera.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u427	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are several factors that contribute to the abandonment of sports practice throughout life and this option, when it is indeed an option, results from several reasons. But in young people, the difficulty of reconciling studies is a determining aspect and it is not an aspect that we can disregard. With the entry into higher education, the difficulty of conciliation is accentuated, so it adds the risk that young people will leave their sport participation. It is in this sense that there is a legal framework and that is why the status of the athlete student of higher education was introduced, with a set of minimum rights of access to sports practice for all students of higher education, such as the lifting of faults, modification of evaluation dates, priority in choosing schedules and the possibility of requiring examinations in special times. However, as mentioned in the proposal under discussion, the existing framework is insufficient to accommodate the wishes of all higher education students, particularly those who attend higher education in the autonomous regions. It is therefore considered essential to provide the Statute with a set of rules which, in view of the architectural dimension of the country, should promote equality of access to that Statute. It is argued in the exhibition of reasons, and rightly so, that, although they are students of higher education, those who study in the autonomous regions, such as the island students who attend higher education establishments in the continental territory, are, in fact, subject to a differentiated factor, which is that of the geographical condition — to such territorial discontinuity. Whether it is the distance from the place where the competitions take part, whether the distance from the family context, which can help or, at least, support the sport practice or even the most marked constraints of travel, end the competitions, all this, as it is argued, impacts on the academic life of these students and athletes, introducing greater requirement in compatibility. For the CFP, this bill, which aims to establish a specific framework of athlete students in the autonomous regions, while extending the application to arbitration of the different modalities, meets the needs of young people who seek to reconcile their sport practice with the frequency of higher education, and must therefore be assisted by this Parliament. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u428	To speak on behalf of the Left Block, you have the floor of Mrs. Joana Mortagua.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u429	Mr. President, I shall be brief,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u430	Oh! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u431	...I don't want to be me increasing the distance between the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen and the Noble Hall, where I know they want to arrive soon. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This project, approved unanimously in the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, aims to adapt the Athlete Student Statute to the condition of insularity or outermost regions of the two autonomous regions. It seems to me that the substance missing from the Socialist Party, or that it does not find in this project, lies in the following: the costs of insularity are, and will always be, an obstacle to equality in a set of matters of life, in a set of rights. And access to sport, sports practice and higher education as athletes under a special status is included in this condition of insularity. There are thousands of young people who maintain a sports activity alongside their academic career, with regular training and participation in national and international championships and not always their redoubled effort is duly recognized. In view of the demands of these athletes, particularly from the Academic Federation of University Sports, the Block of the Left participated in the discussion of the current Statute of the Student Athlete of Higher Education. This Statute has ensured a set of rights that enable you to reconcile your sports life with your academic life. What we are dealing with here is to recognise that this Statute is not adapted to island students, to recognize that it has innovations that we should also adapt—such as that of the issue, which has already been raised, pioneer, of the referees—and to recognise that the unanimity of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira must also correspond to a majority in the Assembly of the Republic. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u432	You have the floor to speak to Mr Rui Tavares of the Free.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u433	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira brings us an idea that deserves welcome, it deserves to be explored, because if there is already a statute for the student athlete, the question to be considered is whether a student athlete who, moreover, has an ultraperipheral condition, deserves support and an additional framework for the athlete who does not have the same condition. [[Rice from CH and PSD Member Luís Gomes.]] Unfortunately, it seems that the PS is going to bring this proposal down, but I think it should make us think that the Assembly of the Republic should not accept it and work it, in the sense that not only the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira but also that of the Azores, which has given it a positive opinion, intend.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u434	Look at the weather!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u435	The Free will therefore vote in favour of this proposal. Only one note: I saw here two groups vigorously defending this proposal, the Liberal and the Arrival Initiative, but in the Azores they did not support or vote in favour of this proposal. I am a little strange that the Members of these two groups,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u436	Leave the others there!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u437	... still above in the ultraperipheral region itself, they didn't want to follow her. I don't know what the reason is.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u438	We're sorry!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u439	... but, finally, since they have these Members in this Regional Legislative Assembly, at least they could work to determine why the Azores decided not to follow the proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u440	It's called autonomy!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u441	Plurality of ideas! Do you know what it is?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u442	To speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Alexandre Poço has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u443	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When we thought the Socialist Party could no longer surprise us, this majority has just announced that it will vote against the following amendments to the Statute of the Athlete Student: that they identify themselves in the Statute of the Athlete Student the students of the autonomous regions;... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u444	... will vote against the inclusion of these students in the Statute through a system that already exists for access to higher education, ensuring an improvement of all those who, in autonomous regions, study and practice sports.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u445	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u446	But the PS will also vote against the inclusion of students who are enrolled in arbitration federations. Furthermore, the PS has announced that it will vote against the extension of the possibility of at least four annual examinations or the equivalent, in particular, to all athletes in the autonomous regions. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very, very surprising that the Socialist Party in Madeira and the Azores approves this initiative,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u447	They've passed!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u448	... that this proposal is positive for all those who, in Madeira and the Azores, study in higher education and practice a sports activity, but here, in the Assembly of the Republic, the Socialist Party uses its majority to lead a proposal...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u449	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u450	... which aims to extend the rights of young islanders. [[PSD applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if we are going to make a mistake, we must think twice.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u451	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u452	And since the vote will only take place on Thursday, the challenge I challenge the PS Parliamentary Group, its parliamentary leader, the Azorian and Madeiran Members of this bench, is that they reconsider your vote and see if they want to vote against young islanders,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u453	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u454	... against Madeira and against the Azores, or if you want to vote in favour of guaranteeing more rights to all those who already deal with insularity, who already deal with their ultra-peripheral status while studying in higher education and ensuring their sport practice. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u455	We are thus finishing the debate on this point. Let's move on to the voting period. I request the services to operate the attendance registration system. [[Pause.]] I wonder if any Member of Parliament or some Member of Parliament has not been able to register. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have quorum, so we are going to start the votes. We begin by voting, in general, Law No 47 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Regulates the contributions of temporary solidarity on the energy and food sectors. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PAN and the L, votes against the CH and the IL and abstentions of the PSD and the CFP.]] This proposal is down to 5. the Commission. The general vote of Bill No 383 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PCP ) — Extraordinary contribution on profits, combating speculation and monopolistic practices. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L were rejected.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 384 / XV / 1. a (L) — establishes an additional rate on extraordinary profits. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L were rejected.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 389 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Prevents payment of shareholder and bonus remuneration by credit institutions that received public financial support between 2008 and 2022. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L were rejected.]] Finally, we will generally vote for Bill No. 399 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Determines the distribution of excessive profits of licensed energy undertakings to operate on the national market to their customers. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the IL were rejected, votes against the CH and abstentions against the PSD, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L.]] At the end of the vote, I have to be informed by the honourable Members. Members that the next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow, Wednesday, at 3 p.m. on its agenda, in point 1, the opinion of the Proposal for Law No 42 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Amends the Legal Regime of Local Authorities by deepening the regime of metropolitan areas and inter-municipal communities.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u456	It's not over yet and they're getting up already? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-20.u457	Mr Filipe Melo, thank you for the help, but even more disturbing. This Bracarian voice imposes itself on those of your colleagues. Continuing, agenda item 2 consists of the joint discussion of the Bill No 34 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to legislate in matters relating to the deployment of drivers of the road transport sector by transposing Directive 2020 / 1057 and creating its sanction regime and draft Law No 253 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Determines that the occupation of heavy goods and passenger vehicles is considered to be of rapid wear. of point 3 is the assessment of the Bill Nos 216 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Ensures access to the state's institutional advertising campaigns, to the social media bodies directed to the Portuguese communities abroad, making the second amendment to Law No 95 / 2015 of 17 August, 250 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — The third amendment is made to Law No 95 / 2015 of 17 August in order to include in its scope the institutional advertising of independent administrative entities and 394 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Extends the scope of Law No 95 / 2015 of 17 August to include Portuguese communities abroad, together with Draft Resolution No 317 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government comply with the provisions of the law and publish promptly the order setting out the amounts of support to be allocated under the regional and local social communication incentive scheme. In point 4 we have, for discussion, the Bills Nos 135 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Approves the status of the police condition, 136 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Democratic management of the GNR and PSP Disease Assistance System ( sixth amendment to Decree-Law No 158 / 2005 of 20 September ), draft Resolution No 158 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government initiate a study and discussion process with a view to creating a national civilian police in place of PSP and GNR and also Bills Nos 147 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Update of the amounts of the fixed component of the military condition supplement, 245 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Elimination of the sustainability factor applied to retired public security police agents not covered by Decree-Law No 4 / 2017 of 6 January, 254 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Assigns to the officers with police functions of the security forces and services the qualification of the rapid wear occupation, 256 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Alter the Decree-Law No 243 / 2015 of 19 October ensuring compliance with the criteria for pre-invoicing and retirement of Public Security Police professionals in accordance with their Professional Statute and 381 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Increases the fixed component of the service supplement and risk of the personnel of the forces and security services Point 5 will consist in the assessment of Petition No 252 / XIV / 2. a (António José Ladeira Soares Neto et al.) — Against the construction of the new airport in Montijo and in favor of Beja Airport, together with Resolution Projects Nos 109 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Recommends that the Government develop a national airport plan, subject to Strategic Environmental Assessment, 114 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — By boosting passenger transport at Beja Airport and 308 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Taking advantage of Beja Airport in its various dimensions and potentialities. Finally, point 6 contains the vote on the Proposal for a Law No 42 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Amends the Legal Regime of Local Authorities by deepening the regime of metropolitan areas and inter-municipal communities. See you tomorrow or so soon. The session is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 17 minutes.]]
