ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late for everyone. We will start our session, as we already have quorum and all parliamentary groups are represented. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] I ask the authorities to open the galleries to the public. The first item on the agenda concerns the election of a Vice-President of the Assembly of the Republic. To this end, the vote shall take place from this time and until 5 p.m. in Conference Room D. Maria II. I therefore ask all of you and all of you. Members who do not forget to exercise their right/duty to vote in Chamber D. Maria for the next 2 hours. We will move on to the second point, which, having today's agenda fixed positively by the Socialist Party, is generally based on the appreciation of the Bills Nos 280 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Creates the land bank and land mobilization fund, 249 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Approves a national deeucalization programme, 261 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Definition and execution of procedures for post-fire situations and 297 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Creates the public bank of agricultural land, together with Resolution Projects Nos 179 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government develop an action plan to address the damage caused by the July 2022 fires, 182 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government adopt forest management measures and review the Integrated Rural Fire Management System, 183 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government create support measures for forest, agricultural and environmental enterprises during contingency and alert periods, 201 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the renaturalization and prohibition of hunting in the Natural Park of Serra da Estrela and 221 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Emergency programme for the Star greenhouse. To submit Bill No 280 / XV / 1. a ( PS ), as soon as there are conditions for this, I give the floor to the Member of the PS Francisco Rocha Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The choice of the heading of the bill that gives the motto to today's debate has multiple structural dimensions that meet the context and the challenges of making Portugal a more sustainable and cohesive country. Portugal can no longer live with the idea that it is not taking advantage of all its agricultural, forestry and silvopastoral potential. Portugal must be able to make full use of and profitability of the resources available to us and, at the same time, to ensure the sustainable production of agri-food goods, increasing our food sovereignty, and having the ability to look at the forest as an asset and a precious resource to mitigate the effects of climate change. However, there are some constraints that often prevent this desire. We have an aged agricultural and forestry business fabric, access to land by young farmers is difficult, we have too much of a rustic property, which prevents their proper planning, management and scale, and we have chronic difficulties in identifying the ownership of the same property. Mr. President and Mr. Members: With the progress of the simplified registration process, we will finally know, among other aspects, the amount — which many consider to be substantial — of land that will be classified as « without known owner ». It is pointed out that this number will exceed 1 million hectares of land, the overwhelming majority of them north of the river Tejo, where the micro and minifundia predominate. We must not forget that abandoned land without known owners significantly increases the risk of rural fire, prevents its purchase and sale and inhibits its sustainable productive use and with economic profitability. Similarly, we know that the land market is marked by some real estate, since more than 51 % of transactions are due to hereditary transmission. This makes it very difficult for young people to access the land production factor, which is an essential condition for their installation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u3	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u4	That is why, Mr. President and Mr. Members, it is not surprising that, five years later, the PS Parliamentary Group presents in this House a bill proposing the creation of an integrated land management system — which includes the bank, the stock exchange and the land mobilization fund —... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... thus completing the legal framework which at the time was called « forest reform ». It should be remembered that this diploma — that of the land bank — was the only one that did not get approval in this House and was rejected with the votes against the PSD, the PCP, the CDS and the ENP. It should be stressed that the diploma now presented does not compromise the constitutional principles of private property and does not ignore what has been done since then.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u5	Let's see! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u6	In this way, the land bank will receive the land without known owner, as well as the rustic properties of the private domain of the State and of the public institutes that appear available for lease and / or sale, and the land mobilization fund will be the financial and management instrument that will ensure the necessary agility to its dynamisation and operation, based on the revenues from its lease and sale activity. Associated with this purpose, it is intended to further dynamize the Land Exchange, which maintains its voluntary character, but which will benefit from an integration into an integrated system, thus ensuring its empowerment. Mr. President and Mr. Members: This draft law is an architect solution that allows thousands of hectares of land to be made available to those who want to use them, cultivate, order and manage them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It gives preference to young farmers, neighbouring owners, cooperatives, small farmers, among others, and also does not leave out unemployed candidates and candidates with refugee status. Rural abandonment, reflected in the properties without known owner, does not facilitate the existence of collective management instruments for rustic property, such as forest intervention zones ( ZIF ), forest management entities and integrated landscape management areas ( APG ). In short, Mr. President and Mr. Members, this bill, being reformist, does not call into question the right of private property, preferably enables young farmers to access the land, calls on the State and public institutes to participate in this joint effort of cohesion and growth, by combating the abandonment of rustic land and by dynamizing and developing our rural territories. Climate change, demography, inertia and time-consuming will only aggravate the problem. The clock's counting. Why wait more? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u7	The honourable Member has three requests for clarification, which I assume he answers together.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u8	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u9	The first request for clarification is for the PSD Parliamentary Group, and for that purpose Mr Paulo Ramalho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the approval of the bill presented to us today by the Socialist Party will, of course, imply the repeal of Law No 62 / 2012, which created the so-called « National Land Exchange », which had the mission to combat the abandonment of public and private agricultural land by dynamizing its use. This was his essential function. Now, the Land Exchange, regulated by Portaria n. 197 / 2013, had as managing entity the Ministry of Agriculture, through the Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development. This National Land Exchange lived in this way for three years in the government led by the PSD / CDS-PP coalition, having been in the last seven under the protection of the Government of the Socialist Party. It is true that the achievement of the goals of the National Land Exchange was far from the desired, much because of the responsibility of the State, which did not place its best rustic properties on the Stock Exchange and, as a managing entity, did not know how to dynamize this structure competently. In good rigour, I did not know how to manage it or make it attractive enough. So, first of all, we ask: Is it true that the monitoring group of the Land Exchange has not met since May 18, 2018? And if so, why? On the other hand, it refers to the bill now submitted by the Socialist Party that the land bank is « constituted by all buildings exclusively or predominantly rustic with agricultural, silvopastorial or forestry skills of the private domain of the State and public institutions ». We ask: are these buildings the only ones that the State and public institutes have already placed on the Land Exchange or are we going to have more buildings? Does the Socialist Party intend to integrate into the land bank, for example, lands of the Laziria Company or the Vairão agrarian station? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u11	The second request for clarification is for the Liberal Initiative's Parliamentary Group, with Mr Rui Rocha speaking.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u12	Mr President, Mr Francisco Rocha, I have two very specific questions to ask you. The honourable Member referred to the hectares that would be concerned about private property whose owner is unknown, which could become part of the land bank, and in this sense I would like to ask you if you have an idea of how many owners we are talking about. So, is this a measure that, within the limits, can extend to how many owners? Then I would like to ask you, and of course we have to see this in an integrated perspective of the different instruments that have been created over time for forest management — what is the role of Florestgal in this matter. Florestgal is about three years old, I say, given that it was created following the severe fires of 2017, and supposedly had a forest management activity through public means and powers. The number I have in mind is that Forestgal, until today, or until very recently, had intervention in 70 ha. I am not sure of the number, so I would like you to be able to pass on to me if you have that knowledge, please. The idea I have is that Florestgal, in fact, has a performance far below those that were the objectives, being an instrument that is not useful for much at the moment. In fact, especially in the area which justified its creation and which was at its origin, which is the area of Pedrogão, what is known is a very limited or null intervention. So I ask: what does this whole integrated view make of these issues? [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u13	The third request for clarification is from the CFP, and to this end the floor is Mr John Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Francisco Rocha, I am grateful for the intervention you have made because, in fact, it has been particularly enlightening on this issue which the PS presented on the public land bank. This is a strategy and a very bold conversation. What the PS is trying to do is to disguise what, in fact, is in the essence of its intervention and its initiative, and this conversation raises, of course, a question. So, with regard to the bill that the PS presented today, the question that we should do is this: with what state structures will realize what it has in this bill?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u15	The best thing is to keep everything the way it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u16	In fact, you know very well that all the legislation around the forest and property is even difficult to implement because of the lack of State structures.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u17	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u18	This is a question that arises, of course. What is behind this initiative is the idea that PS has and transmits, above, dragging others with you, that the biggest problem of Portuguese forest is the minifundio, it is the small property, it is the abandoned property. No, sir, it's not! It is not, sir. I therefore ask you, from successive reports which are known to various appropriate entities, experts on the subject, to give us a single indication that the size or size of the property is referred to as a cause and nature of the fires and the problem of the forest.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u20	That is what you have to answer. Where is that? What reports? We have had independent technical committees, finally, so many reports have come to this House, and we have never come to that conclusion! And, moreover, let's go to the question of registration and fires. What the fires tell us, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? What the fires tell us is that it burns property of very extensive public domestic forests, burns property of celluloses, burns property of protected areas also quite extensive, which have known owners and are quite significant in terms of area. They're burning! And, as far as it is known, it is also not due to fires originating in the small property that they burn. Therefore, what is at stake is that the PS wants to escape to the essential issue, which is the price of wood. It's just that the PS reverses the burden of business. Want, first of all, to intervene in the size of the property, concentrating it, and then when the property is already in the hands of the big ones is that it will increase the price of the wood. On the contrary, sir! [[Protests of PS Members.]] It is to increase the price of wood which will enable the market to be stimulated, in particular in the sale of property and lease. It's the opposite of what he defends.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u22	So what we should ask is, really, what does the PS want? The PS wants to confiscate the small property. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u23	It's making a real estate lift!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u24	To reply, Mr Francisco Rocha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u25	Mr President, I am grateful for the questions put by the honourable Members. Deputies Paulo Ramalho, Rui Rocha and João Dias. In 2017, after the major fires, we had the opportunity to have the Independent Technical Commission to work and produce a report—which was mentioned yesterday—which pointed out a path to ownership and, above all, to the issues of the forest, which are structural. I'm talking about planning, management and scale. If VV. For example, they consider that disregarding 1 million hectares of land—which is estimated to be those who have no known owner—does not make any difference to the strategic sense of reform, let us make it clear here.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u27	What I remember during the discussion in 2017 on forest reform is that the PSD had only one concern: eucalyptus, eucalyptus, eucalyptus, eucalyptus! [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, still during this election campaign, VV. They wrote and then took the same talk about the liberalisation of the eucalyptus. If you think that's ordering, managing and scaling our forest, we don't think so.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u28	Isn't that what you've done?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u29	I am referring now to a question that still has to do with the confusion that arises over those who do not read diplomas: the Land Exchange is a voluntary instrument, there already exists. But those who observe this instrument of land management weekly verify that it is stopped, it has been dead for a long time, because no one puts anything there or takes anything away. [[CH-protests and PS-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u30	It's not working! Your fault! They've been in the government for seven years!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u31	So the stock exchange will be there. That's what's in it, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a bank of land that has a mission, firstly, to treat this million hectares that we think we are without known owners, preserving the issues of property — not belliscan and there is no confiscation, Mr João Dias — and, at the same time, ensuring all the deadlines that are established in our legal system. There's no confidation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u32	He's passing a statement of incompetence to the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u33	With regard to what we believe to be the future of rural territories, this is also linked to the need for us to rejuvenate our economic fabric dealing with agriculture and forests.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u34	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u35	If we spread this, if we can't counter the immobilism of land transactions, we're not going anywhere, and that's what the Socialist Party doesn't want. Cohesion and growth—we do not give up on that. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u36	To submit Bill No. 249 / XV / 1. a and the Resolution Project No 201 / XV / 1. the, both of the NAP, has the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In today's debate brought to us by the Socialist Party, the NAP believes that it is possible and due to a further debate on the creation of the land bank, in particular with a view to its improvement, and this debate necessarily goes through the change of paradigm and the way we look at the forest. This year, the country saw burn more than 84,000 ha, the triple last year, with loss of human lives, animals, destruction of natural heritage, as was the case of the Star Forest, and various material goods. If anything we have to remove from these fires is that it is more than time to change, once and for all, forest and environmental policies, abandoning solutions that only see eucalyptus, pine or other resinous trees in monoculture. We must realize that the climate emergency is real and urgent and that we will not be able to fight the great fires if we do not change the forest mosaic. We can no longer accept that eucalyptus is the alpha and omega of the forest, that is the most planted species in Portugal and that, within seven years, it has planted more than 81,000 hectares of eucalyptus, i.e. almost the equivalent of the burned area this year. Intensive monoculture planting cannot continue to be encouraged by the State, and that is why the NAP brings a proposal which aims at the passage of the proclamation that we have to value the native forest—so that the support given in public terms—to encourage the planting of firewood trees, which are part of our natural heritage and help us to prevent and combat fires while ensuring that we do not lose the war against the climate crisis. We cannot continue to accept extensive areas of eucalyptus or pineapple in vast continuous area, or in protected areas of the Natura 2000 Network, or in areas with greater fire hazard. We therefore propose the creation of a national programme for deeucalization. But we do not stay here: considering the environmental disaster that took place in the Natural Park of Serra da Estrela, we bring an initiative that aims to recommend to the Government its renaturalization, in a structured way, through an emergency management plan that contains soil erosion, land trawling, doing what the government is not doing and avoiding repeated cases such as what we have unfortunately seen in Manteigas. On the other hand, we want to defend the possibility of biodiversity if it recovers, thus suspending hunting in this area.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u38	The Bureau registered Mr Pedro Pinto with a request for clarification to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real. Mrs Deputy has spent her time, so we're just gonna stick to the question. [[Pause.]] Mr. Pedro Pinto, who used to be magnanimous, gives some time to Mrs. Inês de Sousa Real to get the answer, or is it not a day of magnanimity today?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u39	Not today, unfortunately, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u40	Mr Pedro Pinto, you have the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is something we would like to see answered in this House. Because the Resolution Project No. 201 / XV / 1. the NAP, are you in this debate? It's got nothing to do with it! [[Rice from PS and BE Members.]] This project speaks of hunting, it speaks of anything but the subject brought by the Socialist Party to this debate. That is why this is the first thing that is wrong right now and we will certainly talk about it at the Conference of Leaders. With regard to the eucalyptus, Mrs Deputy really does not know what is going on in Portugal, but this, coming from the NAP, is also normal. Look, and I will explain, the eucalyptus is the highest gross added value (VAB): 4, 3 % national exports of goods, 50 % exports of forest-based products in Portugal, 12 747 direct jobs and several tens of thousands of indirect jobs. The honourable Member, as you don't know, wants to end this. This is the PAN! The NAP only knows Lisbon and a little more, Lisbon and its surroundings, it doesn't know what's going on in the country! [[Congrats from the CH.]] The people who work directly with the business of the eucalyptus are from the inside. You don't know where the country is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u42	He's never been, you don't know! The electric car doesn't get there!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u43	Get out of Lisbon, get out of the Montijo and go a bit within the country, because you will certainly get to know more about the interior of the country. I tell you more: EUR 2350 million in sales, i.e. 1, 2 % of Portuguese GDP (gross domestic product). We are the third largest producer of chemical pastes in Europe, 9, 3 %. It's us, Portugal. Listen, it would be nice if the honourable Member had said this — although she had nothing to do with this in today's debate — in her speech, but she did not say. I'm sorry. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u44	Is Mrs Inês de Sousa Real requesting the floor for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u45	Precisely, Mr. President. in this case, it is not about the conduct of the work, but, given that the honourable Member said that I do not know where the country is, I will be able to answer, just as I will be able to answer about the inclusion of the NAP initiative in today's agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u46	This is not an inquiry to the Bureau, it is an intervention! It's all worth it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u47	Contrary to what the Arrival has invoked, the Natural Park of the Serra da Estrela has everything to do with the matter which the Socialist Party brings us to debate, particularly on the land bank, which comes following the great fires and the need to change our forest mosaic.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u48	Mrs Deputy is the only representative of a party, she must manage her time in agreement!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u49	Therefore, the NAP not only presented an initiative that has to do with it, as it has been on site, something that has not been reached.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u50	When it comes to arriving, the initiatives don't even reach the Bureau!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u51	When a Member or a Member directs an appeal to the Bureau, it is to the Bureau that it is responsible to manage that request. Mr Pedro Pinto is also asking for the floor to make an inquiry. Just a minute. In relation to the question raised concerning the conduct of the work, which is the scheduling, in fact, the Bureau received only this morning, after the deadline, a question raised about the effective material connection, which it did not give time to appreciate properly. The clarification is made, but the answer to the request for clarification cannot be given, because the honourable Member does not have time. Mr Pedro Pinto has the floor to ask the Bureau about the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u52	Mr President, it is only to say that the answer given to us was that the deadline would fall last Monday. I remember Mr President, who knows this as well as I do, that when they removed, last week, a draft law from the Arrival, they did so in advance. We cannot have a criterion for a draft law or resolution of the NAP and another criterion for draft laws of the Arrival. That is what we discussed, and that is what we brought to this plenary. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u53	The honourable Member is right about factivity, but the criterion applied was the same, since the interpretation is that, when there are parliamentary days, they suspend the application of the deadlines.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u54	But there were no parliamentary journeys!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u55	Yes, in relation to the project of the Arrival was what happened, that was the criterion. in this case, there was no. He is therefore right about the facts, and the criterion was also the same. To submit Bill No. 261 / XV / 1. a and the Resolution Project No. 221 / XV / 1. a, both from the PCP, has the floor Mr João Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP today brings to plenary two initiatives which, in addition to necessary, are urgently needed. From then on, we present a bill that aims to adopt emergency procedures after the occurrence of large fires, i.e. fires corresponding to a burning area over 100 ha. Unfortunately, the rains and slips have already worsened the damage, particularly in the greenhouse of the Star, but weakened by the fires, giving reason and update to the proposal of the CFP. It is clear that we are not saying that it would be possible to avoid all the consequences in the short period that mediated the fires and the first rains. However, we believe that much could have been minimized if a set of automated measures had been developed which, if properly provided with means, would have allowed another outcome. We cannot wait for the creation of working groups which then produce reports and which in practice do little or nothing to do. what we need is to implement in the field, in post-fire situations, actions typified in order to ensure, on the one hand, the recovery and safeguarding of the affected land and, on the other, the replacement of their production conditions, duly protocoled, so that all necessary technical requirements are met and, above all, ensuring their implementation on the ground. Mrs. Members, the occurrence of large fires, of which large areas are burned, raises a set of environmental problems and the replacement of productive potential, which should be treated in a careful and technically well-defined manner. In other words, it is necessary to ensure the existence of proper mechanisms for emergency intervention in the affected territories, in all situations of major fires, and, even in areas of smaller burning, specific support measures should also be taken and ensured to carry out stabilization and emergency work. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP also presents a draft resolution with an emergency programme for the Star greenhouse. The recurrent occurrence of fires that have been witnessed in this region, translated into vast burning areas, poses problems added to the recovery of species and natural values in this area, and may lead to the sharp loss of the diversity then present. It understands the PCP that it is necessary to establish, within the framework of the Star Forest Emergency Programme, a planning of the reforestation and recovery of biodiversity for the burned areas and control of the proliferation of invasive and infestant species, either in relation to their unwanted emergence in the burned areas, or by its eradication in the other areas of the natural park, improving the state of ecosystems. In other words, it is also essential to intervene on the remaining unburned area. The government can even announce that the evil of the fire comes for good and that the greenhouse will get better than it was. However, we are well aware that this is not the case. Well, the government can say that the necessary measures are already under way and that everything needs is already being done. We know that it is not so well and that what matters is to move from paper to the ground and solve the problems. It is in this sense that the CFP identifies the lack of a management direction for the Natural Park of Serra da Estrela, i.e. the lack of an organic unit of middle management of the central administration, with a director — someone who knows the reality deeply and identifies himself with it — an organic unit equipped with the human, technical and financial resources necessary for the proper management and safeguarding of this territory, proposals, in fact, that the CFP has already presented in relation to all protected areas of national scope. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The fires this summer proved once again that the CFP is right. As long as the government announces, the country burns and, in the field, much is to be done. The proposals that we are presenting today, to be implemented, will not have the responsibility to put an end to the fires, but we are sure that they will avoid the brutality we have witnessed in recent years. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u57	Two requests for clarification, one from the PS and the other from the PSD were received by the honourable Member, which will be answered together. For the first request for clarification, Mrs Paula Reis of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u58	Mr President, Dear colleagues, Mr João Dias, the proposals presented to us today by the CFP focus on an emergency programme, with the creation of a new public organic structure, with its own direction, on strengthening the intervention capacity of the ICNF (Instituto da Conservação da Nature and Forests) and on the description of an emergency intervention in fiery areas and also on the identification of losses, defining also the implementation of procedures for post-fire situations. It happens, Mrs. Members, that the Government is already on the ground, from the very beginning with the decree of the state of emergency, which provides all the action of an exceptional character. In addition, the lifting of damage has already been done. There was a provision in the amount of EUR 200 million to intervene in this territory and the hearing of the recipients, in this case represented by their author and other local actors, at a famous meeting, to which we all attended by the media, where the government members with intervention on the subject and the authorships were joined. It is thus shown that the Government wants to hear the territory, protect it and give it reasons for those who are still inhabitants of those territories today to continue to be it, so that those who invest in those territories continue to do so and bring others, whether inhabitants or investors. That is why, Mr President, we, who are residents of these regions, know that the plans that can be made have a problem, first of all, that you omit, which is the question of ownership.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u59	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u60	Yes, it is a problem, and a problem for the implementation of any plan in that territory, because we cannot constitute ZIF if in the middle there is a owner who does not accept, having all the right to do, and that is a problem we have been witnessing in the last 20 years. I'm not saying fires start in small properties. What I'm saying is that uncareful property, non-clean property, non-profit property is abandoned, and this abandonment is leading to the large dimension of fires. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. PCP, I ask you if you don't think it's important...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u61	What about the state? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u62	It has everything to do with the territory of the Star Forest.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u63	What about the Natural Park of the Star Forest? He wasn't abandoned? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u64	I ask you, Mr PCP, if you do not think it is important for us to have a forest like it itself must be, i.e. a forest with its biodiversity niches, which is approved the creation of a land bank, through Bill No 280 / XV / 1. a, which provides efficient plans for the greenhouse of the Star, but also for the entire national territory. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u65	For a second request for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Fatima Ramos of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. João Dias, the summer was synonymous with holidays for many, but it was also of uncertainty and anguish for all who lived the scourge of fires. My first words are of solidarity to these people. The summer has been dry, creating conditions for the scourge, but there has been a lack of land planning policies and economic policies that create conditions for people to live in these territories. The government needs to be less centralist, to give more priority to prevention and to create measures that motivate investment in the interior. A care territory needs life, needs people. in a minifundio property, where income is low and the aging population, in order to have a careful forest and for terms agriculture are needed support, support that would not be a cost but an investment. in this draft law, the CFP proposes a set of emergency procedures, after the occurrence of large fires — referring to the regulation the definition of procedures, which makes the law empty, on the one hand, but allows to introduce technicality, on the other hand — measures that are in line with previous PSD proposals. With the introduction of this initiative, the CFP recognises the failure of the socialist government's forestry reform. Since 1995 we have had practically only socialist governments. The current Prime Minister has been in office for seven years. They have been very good at announcements, but inconsequential in realisation and sometimes even shot away—see what happened to the Star Forest.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u67	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u68	The last socialist governments have always been like this: they do and undo. In 2003, I recall the creation of the Forest Fire Prevention Agency by a PSD Government. In 2005 a socialist government shuts down the agency and centralizes everything in the Directorate-General for Forest Resources. Years later, they created AGIF (Integrated Rural Fire Management Agency ) and Florestgal. That's how everything goes: they do and they break up. They forget that there are areas that need a coherent strategic direction.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u69	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u70	Combating depopulation must be a priority. Forests require consistency and must be included in this priority.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u71	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u72	I would like to ask you two questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u73	To us!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u74	Excuse me, I would like to ask Mr CFP two questions. First question: do you admit that the government that has supported has failed in the reform of the forest? Second question: if this government has failed at all, what assurances do we have that, with the adoption of this initiative, the new guidelines they propose will be adopted? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u75	To reply, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u76	Mr President, I would like to thank the questions asked by Mrs Paula Reis and Mrs Fatima Ramos. I begin by replying quickly to Mrs Fatima Ramos, telling her that what impresses the fastest is the amnesia of the parliamentary groups after they vote in this House. It was precisely the PSD that was next to the PS when it was created in Florestgal. It was precisely the PSD that was next to the PS when the simplified registration was approved. When the PCP fought for the rustic record, there was the PSD next to the PS. Therefore, if there was anyone, in what was approved in the forest reform, who damaged the small forest owners and their viability was the PSD, which was always hand-held with the PS. It wasn't the PCP! The PCP knows very well where to position itself: next to the small forest owners. Mrs Paula Reis, if you look at the PCP bill and the PS bill, how do you think the PS laws? It is the 'olometer' or the smell. That's how the PS does! They say there are estimated to be 1 million hectares of land without known owners. Mrs. Member, where is this? Where did they get that data? Where is this uprising made? Where are those numbers? The truth is they don't know land without owners! In fact, you can see here how the attack on small property is clear. They started by calling them land without owners. Since there was no land without a owner, they began to call it "land without a known owner", but as there is no land without a known owner, because, after that, the owner always appears, they now speak in the individual property. But, you know, Mrs. Member, the individual property has a couple head. Therefore, do what is necessary to do: defend the property and viability of the forest property and production. That's what matters. Thus, we will enable a much more fire-resistant Portugal, making small properties viable. And it is not because of its size, but because of what they can constitute for our country, for our territory, in particular by combating abandonment, which is worrying. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u77	To submit Bill No. 297 / XV / 1. a, has the floor as soon as there are conditions for this effect, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the BE Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Our country has been late for decades. For decades, on behalf of their Community funds, of the quotas that were accepted to please any country in Brussels, of the diverse openings to markets that produced in an unwise, environmentally unsustainable manner, but always in a much more competitive way than Portugal, we have been destroying our productive fabric. Therefore, when many today complain that the interior is depopulated, they are held by the responsibilities for these decades of governance in which the territorial cohesion of the country and the development of its productive tissue were absolutely despised in accordance with a submission to the interests of Brussels, which did not defend the strategic interests of Portugal. If this was visible in the past, today there is another aspect that is fundamental, when war destroys Europe. The food sovereignty of our country is far from being achieved and we realize that many of the land we have and could be used to meet these difficulties are not being used. Why? Because, there it is, public policies gave signs contrary to those we should defend and now we pay that heavy bill. From that point of view, we see how much of the territory is depopulated, neglected and none of it does not even own. We see that in the forest, we see that in the agricultural fields. It is true that registration is fundamental to knowing who the property is, to ask for responsibilities, but also for the State to be able to act, ordering the forest, ensuring that the agricultural land is properly productive and that it is at the service of the community. On this issue, we already know that the Socialist Party is very fast to promise, but it always takes a lot to do. We see the question of registration, in which PS has been saying for years and years that it is now that it is, but it is never. It is always late, it always arrives for a little while, because, in fact, on the ground, in concrete, it has very little involvement of the populations, very little involvement of the municipalities and very little will to have a register done as it should. But if we do not know who is part of the land, part of the forest, we know what part of the land and the forest whose owners we know is left to abandon. This is because many small owners have no economic advantage in producing on a small agricultural land, which has more costs for a production than if we were to buy at the supermarket the same goods that we produce there. In relation to the same forest, it costs a small owner to clean up the forest more than to extract some kind of economic advantage. However, public policies are needed to ensure that forests are profitable and attractive, innovatively, in a sustainable way, so that the future is guarded, to ensure that agricultural land is also a source of attention for new generations. Therefore, these proposals that are on the table, as far as ownership is concerned, fail if they do not bring associated needs to invest in the territory and in the ways in which it collects income for the populations. The Left Block, unlike other parties, has already voted in the past for the initiative that the PS brings here. We understand that it is essential that there is a public bank of land. I see that this is not the will of most Members in this Chamber who prefer to have parallel conversations rather than pay attention to the debate. But when the time comes, Mr President will draw attention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u79	So cute!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u80	As I was saying, on this subject, about the content of the debate, we have already, in the past, accompanied the Socialist Party's initiative to ensure a public bank of land. However, there are doubts that we had in the past that we now have. It is that, if it is necessary to guarantee a scale to give greater productivity, this scale should also ensure the effective participation of people and not merely the concentration of property in the hands of a few. It must also ensure environmental sustainability, both agricultural and forestry land, and not that forest funds that will manage the forest are those that are subject to the interests of only and only celluloses, and even though the policy of the Ministry of the Environment and of the Ministry of Agriculture is in fact to ensure that both agricultural land and forest land are at the service of the country and the distribution of wealth and not to guarantee the concentration of wealth for some. Now, these doubts remain with the project presented by the Socialist Party, since, in fact, the fundamental part of the choices that gave answers to these questions are delivered to future legal decrees we do not know. If we look, for example, at the public institutions that are already playing a role in the forest — Florestgal has already been mentioned today and, not by chance, has not had any response from the Socialist Party — we have everything to fear, because, in fact, there is a lot of money to spend on propaganda, very little to do something concrete in defence of the forest. We fear that there will be a lot of money to expropriate people, little interest in which it is in fact the public interest to benefit from that money, but particularly some interests of the celluloses to benefit from that reality. from the Left Block, we have a bill that, having some similarities with the initiative presented by the Socialist Party, because part of the same analysis of the concrete reality of looking into the territory, protects more the interests of small owners, protects the interests of defense of the country to the non-concentration of capital in this matter, protects the distribution of production and greater environmental concern as regards the sustainability of both forest and agricultural land.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u81	Mr President, allow me to interrupt. It's a little offensive for the speakers to have people who are back turned to the speakers. Of course there are conversations that take place during the plenary, this is part of our life, but they must be done in order to preserve the minimum conditions of intelligibility of what one and others say.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u82	Exactly, conversation is out there!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u83	Mr. Deputies, please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u84	Mr President, I know that some people want to see me behind the back, but that is part of the daily political activity. On that part, nothing to add. The part of the noise is that it's more unpleasant. As I was saying, referring to the initiative proposed by the Left Block, with some similarities with the proposal put forward by the Socialist Party, there are some differences in environmental concerns in the forest and agricultural sustainability. And they're not just. This is because we are concentrating forest plots for the production of eucalyptus, in fact, does not structurally alter our forest—on the contrary, eucalyptus is what it already has to satiety—and does not guarantee the future sustainability of the forest from the environmental point of view and our safeguard for the defence of climate change and fires. If we promote the concentration of agricultural land to maintain the same dependence on agricultural holdings that do not have environmental safeguards, which are often hyperintensive, which promote a concentration of capital without distribution of wealth, neither with the valuation of wages nor with the valorisation of local economies, in practice, we are not structurally changing the agricultural scenario and I believe that we should do so. So our concern about the territory, about the land, is that they have the social, economic and environmental role they must have, in a country that is facing extreme climate change and in a country that has to promote the development and territorial cohesion of its interior. Therefore, with these concerns, we have all the openness to the debate in the field of expertise. We hope that the Socialist Party will also have the same openness to discuss our diploma in the field. There are a number of other diplomas that have been brought to the debate in which they proliferate issues that are not these. We shall vote according to the analysis we have made of each of them — I do not have time to deal with each other — because, in practice, this issue of the land bank is central to the future of the forest and agricultural production and there are other matters which, as well as fundamental to this, are an accessory to a structural debate such as that of ownership, which is the one we are debating. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u85	The honourable Member has two requests for clarification which I believe he will answer together. The first request for clarification lies with Mr Pedro Frazão of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u86	Mr. President, Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares, and I'm the populist? Oh, my God! Your bench comes here to bring a bill, by drag, and you speak, speak, speak, speak, speak, speak of everything but the bill that your bench presents.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u87	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u88	Mr. Deputies, let's see one thing: the Left Block, after all, looks like it's a punishing party. This is because this bill, which you put forward, is basically based on penalties. In the punishment of who? In penalizing the weakest, the weakest, the most unprotected in our society. These are people who do not have the economic capacity to properly make the registrations, they are people who do not have the ability to clean the land—as I said, and well, the economy is always underlying forestry—people with complicated inheritance processes and who do not have the money to access lawyers, nor do they have the money to access justice,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u89	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u90	... and they are often emigrants that the PS government has forced you to emigrate, with your support and with the support of the Communist Party. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Therefore, Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares, nothing justifies this logic that punishes your bill, which comes to prove that the Left Block is, after all, a rather punishing party. Moreover, it is useless to bring penalties when the Socialist Party itself admits that there are more than 1 million hectares of land whose owners are unknown. There's the problem! The gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party have been promising for decades the registration of the rural world, the registration of properties. Where is he? After all, there isn't! With this bill, you are passing a certificate of incompetence to the government. They are trying to wash away the incompetence of the government, which has not been able to register, and now come with this legislation so they can move a bank of land forward. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party, what guarantees us that this land bank will not be completely equal to the land exchange that has existed for so long and that it is completely the despicant? Only to give a value, the Land Exchange currently has 450 plots, in a total of 1200 ha available to rent. What's this? This is nothing, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. Compared with the 700 000 ha burned this year, this is absolutely nothing. So I have to tell you, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat: I respect the circus art very much and I do not want to offend anyone here, but indeed you, who have been ruling seven years and have given us very little bread, but circus, at least, we do not lack it! We have the jugglers who are hanging on you, we have the clowns and we have the illusionists, which is the PS. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u91	For a second request for clarification, Mr. Ricardo Pinheiro of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if there has been something that prides me over the past few years as Portuguese is the way in which the Directorate-General of the Territory ( DGT ) has been able to implement some mechanisms of computerization and digitization in part of Portuguese territory. There's a lot to do,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u93	There is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u94	...but justice is done in the way DGT has worked these kinds of instruments. [[P.S.'s applause.]] One of the biggest challenges facing the country is the demographic crisis. The interior of Portugal began to feel this in the 1960s and 1970s, with internal and external migration movements. The construction of political measures that achieve effective solutions to reverse this trend and to boost territorial cohesion is structural in all dimensions: social, economic and environmental. The proposal which the Socialist Party has taken into account does not undermine the rights of the owners. The land bank consists of all the buildings exclusively or predominantly rustic, with agricultural, silvopastorial or forestry skills, in the private domain, of the State or public institutes, as well as those that are identified as having no known owner, i.e., is a proposal that takes care of landowners. A land mobilization fund is also created, which will be a financial instrument for the management of the land bank, with properties located, mostly within Portugal. A model that thinks about promoting new ideas and that allows the start of agricultural and forestry activity to young farmers, rejuvenating their productive tissue, building a solution capable of regenerated in their own success, allocating means to public policies for the sector. There are things that are getting better. In fact, the way in these seven years was made to rent these land to its owners is not in accordance with a financing model for the 21st century agricultural projects. With regard to the other initiatives under consideration today, I would like to see from the Left Block the compulsive lease model and the declaration of abandonment. We will build a good law, so that the land bank is those measures that can effectively support national production and stimulate the attraction of young people to the inside. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u95	To reply, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u96	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I should like to tell you that I have not heard any questions from you, but I thank you for spending time from your bench to the Left Block Parliamentary Group. It serves as an intervention, like that of your previous colleague, in order to be able to understand the news that is being published today in the press. The news reports that, for example, the Champalimaud, the Mellos invested in arriving in the last election campaign. And I think investing is the correct term.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u97	What about the Church? What about Venezuela? What about Iran? Oh, my God! Where's Marisa? Oh, my God! You guys got money bags!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u98	I believe that investing is the correct term after listening to your interventions, with the defence of the economic elites and the great economic groups of the celluloses—now, many of them are against the population, because the people know how they are polished by the prices they practise for wood. However, you choose your side, the side of the economic groups, we choose the side of the populations. It's our choice! So I realize that you didn't understand my intervention, you didn't understand the bill, but, look, I can only give you that simpler answer, which is: study! As for that, I can't say anything else.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u99	Friends of others are what you are!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u100	Mr. Ricardo Pinheiro, although we believe in the bill we have tabled, I believe that it can be a start of conversation for the debate in the specialty. On the issues he raised, he focused on two fundamental aspects: how do we define that a land is abandoned? What we do is this: if an agricultural land has no production in the last three years—and this is supported by public institutions—we can consider that it is abandoned because it is not fulfilling its production objective. If the PS says 'we do not want three years, we want five years, we want another form of evaluation', we are available for dialogue. I believe that what we cannot have is the acceptance that there is land that is needed to produce food goods that we need for our sovereignty, in a context where they are extremely expensive in the national and international market, and that they do not meet this objective. On the matter of renting, unlike the Socialist Party, we give more priority to renting the land that is part of the land bank than to assigning it to the sale of the land by this way. We understand that's what has to happen.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u101	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u102	I shall finish with a sentence, Mr President. We are available, as I have said, ensuring that the State has, either property on agricultural land or property on forest land, and that it has, above all, a sustainable agricultural and forestry policy capable of bringing our productive capital to its maximum, ensuring that it also defends the environment. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u103	To present Resolution Projects Nos 179 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government develop an action plan to address the damage caused by the July 2022 fires, 182 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government adopt forest management measures and review the Integrated Rural Fire Management System and 183 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — It recommends that the Government create support measures for forest, agricultural and environmental enterprises during the periods of contingency and alertness, Mr João Marques, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Forest fires are unfortunately a constant reality in national territory. The damage caused to forest owners and producers is enormous, leading them not to invest in reforestation and to abandon their properties, due to the lack of economic return that justifies more investment, and they reflect a state failure that is very worrying at the level of land management and forestry management. The PSD has alerted to the need for a broader and global view of rural space, ensuring an orderly reforestation, managed in order to provide attractive income to its promoters, while at the same time fulfilling good forest practices. It has also alerted to the need for a forest based on another organizational paradigm, both regarding its planning and its management. An arrangement that includes the multifunctional nature of the forest — in the production, in the landscape, in the environment, in the economy — and an effective business management, with the support of public funds that enable appealing economic results, in order to attract the commitment and dedication of forest owners and producers. A forest so designed will have very positive results at the level of added value created and in the decarbonisation of the country, thus combating climate change caused by global warming. Contrary to others, in the PSD we understand that the economy, production, are perfectly compatible with the environment. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u105	The PSD therefore recommends that the Government immediately develop an action plan to address the damage caused by the fires of 2022. In addition, the Government should pay for the recovery of the forest, new plantations in the areas affected, remuneration of ecosystem services and assign a subsidy value per hectare as long as necessary to the AGIPs, AGIF ( Integrated Forest Fire Management Agency ), associations or other models of forest producers' organisation begin to produce and generate dividends.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u106	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u107	Systematically, we heard the government, the PS and the extreme left to hold the owners responsible for forest fires, given the degree of abandonment that exists, especially in mini-fungal areas. They compare with other European countries where the forest is essentially of the state and which, therefore, is more orderly and burns less, diabolizing private property as responsible for fires. It is an unacceptable argument, because if the Portuguese State had supported the owners with the same amounts that these countries applied in the management of their state forests, we would certainly today have a completely different, more orderly, more diversified, more sustainable forest, more resilient to the fires, more profitable for the country and, of course, for the owners. [[PSD applause.]] What should have been done by the government, and it was not, to find in forestry the solution to the consequences of defining the rural economy. Instead, we have the usual guilt of forest owners. For the PSD, the negative economic results of forestry in recent years — of VAB, REL (net corporate income) and the increase in imports from exports — should be interpreted and reassessed by the political power, in order to redirect sectoral public policies to more promising results for the country. We believe that some of these bad results reflect the government's political guidelines, distorted by the reality of our founding structure. Therefore, the PSD recommends that the Government adopt forest management measures and review the Integrated Rural Fire Management System ( SGIFR ), involving local actors; revising the prohibitions and conditions of rural activities in Priority Areas of Prevention and Security, the famous APPS ; monitoring compliance with forest management plans in the areas of fire ; creating invasive species control measures; drawing up a report to be submitted to the Assembly of the Republic within 6 months on the outcome of the work promoted by ForestGal since its establishment; creating measures to support forest, agricultural and environmental enterprises during periods of contingency and alertness, in which they cannot work, as did during the COVID-19 pandemic in Portugal. All this, for the sake of the forest and for the good of Portugal. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as a natural Pedrogão Grande — and forgive me - this possible abuse — I would like to end by leaving here a word of comfort and joy for the recent judgment in 1. the court of Leiria, which acquitted the Commander of the Volunteer Firefighters of Pedrógão Grande, the city's autarchs and the technicians, unjustly accused of involuntary murder at the time of the fires of 2017. [[PSD and PS applause.]] [[In the meantime, he took the presidency of Vice-President Adam Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u108	I shall now give the floor to a request for clarification to Mr Hugo Pires of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. João Marques, I would like to begin my speech with a brief quote about this year's fires: "What the country needs is that we are not, as we are 15 or 20 years ago, saying the same thing and every year the same thing happens. Once and for all, there can be a forest reform and an economic exploitation of the forest, because if the forest is treated it is easier to prevent. » Who spoke these words, was the President of the PSD last August in Viana do Castelo,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u110	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u111	... and I absolutely agree with the President of the PSD, with Dr. Luís Montenegro. The problem is that when the PSD is called to the discussion, never, but never, is part of the solution. An example of this was what happened, for example, in 2017 when the Socialist Party Government came here and presented a proposal very similar to the proposal presented by the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group today. It's VV. Ex. what did they do? They voted against it! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, what the PSD has shown over these times is that it is never part of the solution and, yes, part of the problem. In fact, as we are now defending and defending the rural exodus, combating the abandonment of forest farms, supporting young farmers, because many of them have no financial means to buy or lease land, to increase forest resorption capacity of greenhouse gases or to prevent fires and to preserve our biodiversity. Mr. João Marques, with the creation of this new mechanism of the land bank, we will restore, in the use of the community, a set of soils which today are abandoned and without known owners. It will be possible, increasingly, to use parcels of our territory, ensuring the production of food and raw materials. This is one more of the measures to enable our country to make full use of its natural resources by giving them economic viability. Mr President, the question I ask you is this: will the PSD follow this solution, this diploma, and stand next to the PS? Or will the PSD vote against this diploma and continue to be against this solution, not being part of the solution but, yes, part of the problem? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u112	To respond to the request for clarification, Mr. João Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u113	Mr President, I sincerely thought that Mr. Hugo Pires was asking me about the facts I have presented here and the draft resolutions that the Democratic Social Party presented to this House. Your questions have nothing strictly to do with what you expose from the pulpit, that is, with the content of the PSD resolution projects, but, of course,... [[PSD applause.]] ... I do not fail to tell the honourable Member that in 2017 the PSD voted against because, as you know, there were problems concerning the rights of private property, the constitutional right to private property, the reason for the opposition by the Social Democratic Party. Let me tell you, honourable Member, that there was already a law of the PSD Government, Law No 62 / 2012, which governed precisely the issue of land exchanges. [[PS protests.]] So what you did was somehow change, or try to change that law, to be well in the photograph, let us say so, as authors of the Land Exchange in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u114	Following the presentation of draft laws and resolutions, we now turn to the speeches, with the floor of Mr Rui Rocha, of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To speak about the bill of the land bank, here under discussion, presented by the Socialist Party, I will turn to two concepts. The first concept is 'cost' and the second concept is 'costaclysm'. I'm going to explain both of them now. [[Applause from the IL.]] The 'cost' is the normal way of functioning of Prime Minister Antonio Costa and his government and, therefore, it has to do with promises, with the'strengthening with the belly', with the packages, with the programmes, with all the ways of trying to prove that they are doing something, but then, in practice, nothing is happening. The « costaclisms», for their part, are the consequences of « costases », so we have a succession of « costases » which, sooner or later, is mathematical, will have a consequence, which is a « costaclism. This was and so is in education — a succession of 'costs' gives rise to a 'costaclysm', i.e. the lack of teachers. This is the case in health — a succession of 'costs' gives rise to the lack or closure of emergency services. As you will understand, I will not continue with the examples, but in social security the costs will inevitably give rise to «costacliisms ».
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u116	We're wasting our time with this! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u117	We have 'costs', we have 'costs', we have 'costaclisms', and then the system always works in the same way. There are 'costs', 'costs' accumulate and then come the 'costacliisms'. After the « costaclisms », we have again « costs » to justify previous « costaclisms » and again « costaclisms » will give rise to new « costaclisms ». [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u118	Mr Rui Rocha, allow me to interrupt you. I would ask the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group to listen carefully to the speaker, as well as to the other parliamentary groups, but in particular to the honourable Members. Members of the Socialist Party, who are constantly interrupting the speaker. I beg your pardon, Mr President, please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u119	Thank you very much, Mr President. I see that the concepts are relatively clear and that they generate some interest, and if applied they will realize the whole dynamics of socialist governance. By applying, now, the same concepts that it brings us here, we cannot, in fact, frame the analysis of the diploma here under discussion of the so-called major reform of the forest since D. Dinis, which has been presented. So it is not the same thing to discuss this diploma today, in the context that we have, without taking into account the result of this great forest reform, which has happened. What we saw was that this reform of the forest, both in its content and in its implementation, was a "cost". Therefore, within the model I presented to the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, we have the consequence, with more 'costaclysm', which is what happened, for example, in the greenhouse of the Star this year. So this is the dynamic, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. during the afternoon of yesterday and today, we had a set of initiatives and a set of debates yesterday on the fight against fires and today on the issue of land, and what results, Mrs. Members, within these mechanisms of 'costs' and 'costaclysms', are that things will continue to happen this way, because what is needed is not corroded at this time. What is needed is an integrated view of the essential problems, which are depopulation, drought, fires and the question of the economic usefulness of the forest. Therefore, an integrated proposal, which is what PS does not present and, above all, never implements, because it is dedicated to "costs", it has to have proposals on water retention, on water distribution, on water efficiency, on irrigation, it has to have proposals, because it is also an important issue, on incendiaryism and on criminal policy, it has to have concrete proposals on the transmission of property, it has to have concrete proposals on taxation and it has to have an integrated vision of solution for the interior, for agriculture, for forestry, for livestock. [[Applause from the IL.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about people and therefore only one proposal that brings these conditions together is that it speaks to people and solves people's problems, which is not even integrated in the whole of the proposals for forest reform that have been presented here, in which this piece is missing, nor in the constant practice of the Socialist Party. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u120	For an intervention, Mrs Emília Cerqueira of the PSD now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill that the PS brings us here today is clearly more a good socialist initiative, wrapped up in bricks and beautiful promises, but which, with attention, is more a non-solution and a deception for the serious problems of our territory.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u122	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u123	Worse: the bill, as it is, will cause even more challenges to the territory in the future, more legislative complexity and will lead to greater disorder of the territory. It is the old PS theory: one law is made after another, it gets more and more complicated, to do nothing and pretend what is done. For, the PS bill ignores the current current framework, ignores the existence of a Land Exchange and the 2019 Act itself, which approved the procedure for the recognition of land without owner known for the execution of registration, ignores that all the procedures proposed for the land bank had already been in force since 2012 and only in 2019 there were changes related to the execution of the register. We have to be knowing what we want, and once and for all.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u124	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u125	On the other hand, with the approval of the land bank, as proposed, how will the register remain? Since the well-known landowners re-enter the land bank, as already happened with the 2012 stock exchange, how will the procedures for the execution of the rustic buildings whose owner is not known be carried out within the counter for the execution of the register be done? How will the government explain the oblivion of the registration, the great promise and the great flag it had in the previous legislature? Or will you soon recognize that the PS proposal in 2017 for the implementation of the registration was more advantageous and will re-resist it, recognizing its error? In fact, I take advantage to say that the PSD had a large registration project that was unfortunately plunged by the PS, to make itself this sort of registration, which of registration has nothing, except frames. The bill presents itself with a simple solution for deep problems and various origins. It does so by simply describing reality, which, in our view, is a great mistake, as if the problem of fires, the abandonment of the rural world, the desertification of the interior were the result only of the existence of a bank of lands, as if the land of the state in a position to rent, by itself, a dynamism to agroforestry activities. This even shows that they do not know the country in which we live, in fact, they do not know the state of abandonment in which the State's own land is located, and many of them are not even registered with its known delimitation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u126	Are you going to vote in favour?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u127	If that were the case, the problems would all be solved. It depends, yes, not on advertisements, but on correct public policies for the territory, directed at local actors, to increase and increase the yield of rural, agricultural, forestry and other complementary activities, precisely the opposite, unfortunately, of what the PS Government has done. [[PS protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you're very distracted, don't get angry, because I know the truth hurts. They're walking a little clumsy, but life is what it is. Forest reform is a sad example of what should have been changed and has not been achieved, because of PS, and only PS, as well as its allies to date. In addition, the PS bill as it is will cause more problems than the current ones will lead to property conflicts, conflicts between public entities—for example, the land bank and the famous ForestGal, which was the solution for everything and, after all, is a great cloak of opacity that continues to exist—between these and the Land Exchange, between these and the mobilization fund, and all will contribute to reducing the attractiveness of the territory, investment, the dynamization of economic activities.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u128	Really? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u129	How will the question of forced leases, defined in 2021, be addressed in the law on the basis of public policy on soils, land planning and urbanism in 2014? Another question: how are seven-year leases compatible with perennial crops? Let's imagine — for the Portuguese to understand — that there are rats or oaks, what is the state of planting in seven years? It hasn't even started to grow. It needs 30 years.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u130	40 years!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u131	How will the compatibility between the rustic buildings subject to integrated landscape management operation be made, which could, since 2021, be the subject of forced lease? Mrs. Members, the proposal of the land bank does not envisage any advantage in relation to the legal arrangement provided for by the Land Exchange. But it is now only in this government that the market for rustic leases is being dynamized through related policies directed at owners, long-term attractive policies. Will this country continue to delay and wait or will the PS once and for all recognize that it has gone wrong and become effective policies for the sake of the territory? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u132	For an intervention, Mrs Berta Nunes of the PS Parliamentary Group now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The creation of the land bank and the land mobilization fund that the Socialist Party brings here today is the last piece to close the puzzle of the forest reform initiated by the socialist government in 2016. Yes, because it has been the socialist governments doing the reforms that the country needs and not reforms to impoverish the country,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u134	Take a good look!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u135	... that, according to some parties, lived above their possibilities and needed to impoverish. For the Socialist Party, the country needs to work to produce more wealth and people live better, so the reforms of the socialist governments are reforms to improve people's lives. [[Pause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u136	No one hits? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u137	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to ask the other parliamentary groups to allow the speaker to continue her speech in a position to be heard.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u138	This reform, in particular, the reform of the forest, the biggest reform after King D. Dinis, as some here mentioned yesterday as a criticism, but in fact there was no other reform in Portugal as complete and thought about its various aspects such as this, which includes several measures that interconnect and complement. The various legal diplomas that have been implemented include the creation of the BUPi, the Single Building Balcony in 2017, key measure that will allow to solve the registration problem in the north and in the center, where there is the small property, because in the south, in the Alentejo, in the Algarve, the registration is almost complete. Therefore, Mr Pinheiro drew attention to the maps of the Directorate-General for the Territory and checked the large amount of territory that is already registered. If we look at this map, it is virtually complete, especially in the south, in the Alentejo and in the Algarve, because there is much more difficulty in making this record with the traditional methods to the north, with the small property. That is why the BUPi has emerged here as a solution to make this register simplified, and, in fact, that is what is happening, although many, by sight, are distracted and not noticed. In 2017, when BUPi was created, there were 10 pilot municipalities, among which the municipality of Customs of the Faith—I am talking about my own experience—and today we have 141 municipalities that already have unique building balconies, with 824 qualified technicians. In fact, we had two years of the pandemic, in which this process stopped,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u139	COVID's got a wide back!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u140	... and, often here, in this Chamber, it is forgotten that there have been two years of pandemic and this has conditioned many of the policies and many of the reforms that the PS wants to carry out, and is carrying out [[P.S.'s applause.]] This measure makes it possible to register the buildings in the conservatory for free and has several other advantages for the owners, thus providing a strong incentive for the registration of small properties. Another important measure of this forest reform that PS is implementing is the review of the PROF, Regional Plans of Forest Management, and the obligation to be integrated into the PDM, in municipal plans, allowing municipalities to license applications for forest planting according to these plans, as today they license the construction of any housing, being important to move forward as quickly as possible, being only implemented in 12 municipalities, which transposed this information to the PDM. The government, together with the municipalities, must move forward in this transposition so that the criteria for spatial planning, including forest, are in fact known locally. These two measures, BUPi and PROF / PDM, will enable municipalities to better know their territory and thus contribute to the planning of it and to the prevention of rural fires. Other measures financed and created include FIFs, forest intervention zones, which encourage producers to join and jointly manage the forest, and IGPs, integrated landscape management areas set up later, which integrate the FIFs and integrate landowners who have not acceded to the FIFs, requiring everyone to comply with the rules of management, and thus with the aim of producing wealth, avoiding fires and contributing to the establishment of people in these areas normally depopulated. Today we are debating the land bank and the land mobilisation fund, which can be a strong tool for combating rural abandonment, facilitating access to land, particularly to young people who do not have land, young farmers and other young people who want to invest in agriculture and forest, also promoting the resizing of production units, making them sustainable and profitable, dynamizing the local economy and supporting research, experimentation, demonstration and agricultural and forest development. thus, we can have younger in rural territories, more orderly and profitable agricultural and forestry activity, combating depopulation and contributing to the territorial cohesion policies that we need so much in this country. So neither solutions to the right, in which everything is resolved by handing over to the privates or with integrated solutions that we do not know very well what they are, and also here Mr has not explained, nor with solutions to the left, which do not allow abandoned land that exists according to emigration, rural exodus, to be actually integrated into this land bank and rented to young people who want to install themselves and do not have land. Therefore, the land to which it works should again be a principle guiding the policies of the Communist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u141	Mrs Berta Nunes, the Bureau shall record an application for clarification, for which I give the floor to Mr João Cotrim de Figueiredo, from IL. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u142	Mr President, Mrs Berta Nunes, I have a request for clarification to make to you, which, in fact, could have already been made to your bench colleague Francisco Rocha, but I confess that the accounts I made at the time of Mr Francisco Rocha's intervention have produced such an unbelievable result that I did a very rare thing: I was able to calculate, even with the calculator, to know the information — I imagine that at least in this the PS bench is coordinated — and perhaps the Member may help me, that 1 million ha is 10 000 km2 and 10 000 km2 are a nine of the Portuguese mainland territory. So today there has been something rare in this Parliament, which was the PS to bring, indeed, new information, because to say that a ninth of the Portuguese territory may not have known, of the two, either: or they have been misled in the accounts - would not be the first time of the PS and would be a 'cost', in the words of my colleague Rui Rocha — or then they recognize that, after 20 years of power, of the last 27, the cadastral system and the conservatories of the country failed to identify the owners of a ninth of the territory, which is a 'costaclism'! So please clarify us, because it has not been answered by my colleague Rui Rocha either: knowing that there is an estimate of 1 million ha, then there must also be an estimate of the number of owners, such as may be expropriated by this "experience" that the PS brings us here today. Tell us: "costa"? “ Costaclism ”? “ Costice ”? “ Costaclism ”? [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u143	It was the head accounts that failed! Let's see!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u144	In reply, Mrs Berta Nunes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u145	Mr President, honourable Member, the estimated value varies because there are people who estimate that it is up to 20 %, and there will not be a ninth, it will be even more,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u146	It's a fifth!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u147	...but, in fact, it will only be known — and we are talking about small property, because, as I said, in the south of the country much of the registration is already done — after all this BUPi work is finished.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u148	Even worse!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u149	We don't do statistics!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u150	In any case, if you want the PS to solve a problem of lack of information, I am very sorry, but you will probably have to study a little more. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u151	For an intervention on behalf of the Free Party, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This last dialogue — request for clarification and reply — was very interesting. Is that 10 percent? Is that less? Is that more? Obviously, no one knows, but one thing we can be sure of: it's not unusual, it wouldn't be the first time. Historically, what happens is that, until we can have everything registered computerized, and this has never been possible cyclically, there are times when much of the country has no identified owner and in which the public authorities have to act to give production to that identified territory. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] I think everyone has heard about the Seismarian Law and other times when it was necessary to respond to an emergency, which is now even more crucial. When a part of the territory is not productive and cannot have a social use, such use must be given to it, so that when the owners are identified they can take possession of what is theirs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u153	Taking possession? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u154	Therefore, the existence of a land bank, provided that, in our specialty, we can find out about the use that is given to them, we can find good recipients, such as cooperatives, so that they can temporarily use these land, it seems to me that it responds to a need of the country, as have already done several laws over the centuries — and are listed in the history books, because it has often been necessary to make use of a good part of the territory. And, yes, right now, it can be 10 % of the territory, or more, that they have no public response, because we all see so much territory in the abandoned country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u155	Then make a rustic record!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u156	Mr Pedro Pinto, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today's question, and what is the question in this plenary session, is this: where is the government? The PS, a majority party, calls for a debate and then the government disappears, eclipses! Where is the government speaking in this debate? No respect for the majority party! [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[BE's laughs.]] What brought us here today is the land bank, which brought the debate by the Socialist Party. We could ask several questions: at a time when the National Health Service continues to have serious problems, at a time when the school year begins with the lack of teachers in most schools, at a time when Portuguese have great difficulties in managing their business, putting food on the table and paying the rents of the houses,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u158	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u159	...the fundamental issue for the socialists is the bank of lands. Great! Open... We had, still this afternoon, Mrs. PAN's deputy taking advantage of the wave and asking for the end of the hunt at the Star saw. If this is not populism, then I don't know what to call you! We also had the Left Block talking about the financing of arrive.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u160	Ah! Tell me! Apple, Champallimaud...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u161	Look, Mr. Deputies, we are not receiving illegal funding. You and your friends of Podemos, in Spain, receive it. « Venezuela helped create Podemos with 7 million ». The speaker displayed a sheet with a news from the Express. But there are more: Iran, where women are attacked every day—and you are women's defenders, just like us—, put in Podemos 9, 3 million! The speaker displayed a sheet with a news from El Mundo. Take a good look! Friends of the Left Block! Open... [[Congrats from the CH.]] Here they are: Catarina Martins, Pablo Iglesias, Marisa Matias... The fantastic friendship of the Left Block! The speaker showed a picture. This is the illegal financing of political parties, this is the financing of the extreme left! [[BE's protests.]] We do not underestimate the importance of the subject under discussion. [[BE's protests.]] I know this hurts the Left Block! I know they like to be making noise, and they can still do it! I said we did not underestimate the importance of the land bank. However, the previous Minister of Justice announced that the registration would only be operational... [[BE's protests.]] Mr President, I can continue, but perhaps it would be easier if the Left Block were to shut down. [[Oh, little man!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u162	Time's still going on, but it's okay... I said that the previous Minister of Justice announced that the registration would only be operational in 2024, this being only an estimate. As for the current Minister of Justice—we do not know of her, she will be somewhat uncertain...—, we do not yet know what she has to say on the subject. We know that in the PRR there are EUR 96 million for the reorganization of the register, but it would be important for the Portuguese to understand how much this money has already been used. We are talking about the register, because the knowledge of land without ownership is fundamental to the operation of the land bank, since we do not know who 10 % of the mainland territory is.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u163	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u164	In 2017, a working group was created in this Assembly of the Republic, and the so-called forest reform was approved, but five years later we realized that nothing had passed on.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u165	Don't read!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u166	In 2022, we are the country with the largest burning area of Europe ; the forest continues to grow disorderly ; the rural owners continue without support to plant native species ; the interior remains unpopulated and, in good socialist manner, the Secretary of State for Civil Protection came to this Parliament yesterday, to this Plenary, to paint the « Country of Wonders », making the opinion — in the absence of the Minister of Internal Administration, he too is partly uncertain — that everything went well in Portugal in the fight against fires. We were at the beginning of the fire season, when the Prime Minister, António Costa, was the King's Village to blame the « carelessness of the Portuguese », washing the hands of the lack of means, the lack of structure of the forest and the lack of organization in the fight against fires. There is the abandonment of the territories—it is true that there is! — but how can the State demand and demand responsibilities for the Portuguese when their own land is being abandoned, many for cleaning and caring, as it was seen in 2017 in Pinhal de Leiria? Oh, my God! [[Congrats from the CH.]] On the same day, the Prime Minister came to consider it essential to complete the registration of the properties, and I quote: «No one will pay taxes for making the registration, that is a solved problem ». I will repeat: « No one will pay taxes for making the registration, that is a problem solved».
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u167	Liar! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u168	So what about the IMI (municipal property tax)? So what about the tax obligations of the landowner? So, what about cleaning up that land? Once again, Antonio Costa gives with one hand, takes both and misses the truth to the Portuguese. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u169	Shame! Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u170	The change to the law of registration came to bring a kind of agrarian reform of modern times, a socialist agrarian reform, more elaborate than the other, made in 2019, with the help of the friends of the far left — Block of Left and PCP — preferring to remove the land to the people, instead of allowing them to take yield from their lands and live in their lands. This, without forgetting that many people are afraid to be identified as owners, because they do not have money to clean the land and much less to pay the fines. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The Land Exchange never worked, the state failed to sell a single property in 10 years. And if the State itself can't take care of its land, how can we trust that, with this fund that the PS comes to create and make expropriations, things will be different? Oh, my God! Who guarantees us? [[Congrats from the CH.]] on our side, on the side of the bench of arrive, we'll be careful. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u171	I remember all of you and all of you. Members who are voting for the election of a Vice-President of the Assembly of the Republic. The polls are open until 5 p.m. and I therefore ask all those who have not yet exercised their voting rights to do so. You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Francisco Pereira de Oliveira, of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u172	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Contrary to what some political forces have been defending, the bill that creates the land bank and the Land Mobilization Fund does not translate into a form of spoliation or small property spleen.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u173	Oh, yes, yes! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u174	It is recalled that the existing Decree-Law No. 15 / 2019 of 21 January established a strict procedure, through which are identified buildings without known owners, being these buildings provisionally registered for 15 years, during which the owners can claim their property or other rights on the buildings. This procedure, which is associated with an intention to register the land, aims to combat the abandonment of buildings, with all the losses resulting from this practice, as well as to promote the use of the productive capacity of buildings that possess agricultural, forestry or silvopastorial fitness. As referred to in that decree, it was intended to implement Article 1345 with all possible guarantees for owners. that of the Civil Code, which, since the entry into force of this Code, in 1967, provides that « Real estate without known owner is considered to be of State heritage. Do not keep on seeking. ” The legal regime under discussion here reinforces the safeguard of the rights of owners. in it it is provided for, for example, that proof of ownership of the building by its owner determines the refund thereof and that the owner is entitled to receive the amount corresponding to the income or other profit that may have been received by the State. It is a system that fully protects the rights of the owners, who may wish to exercise their rights, ensuring their wide capacity for identification and intervention to safeguard their heritage. This protection regime is also attached to the regime of the Uscapion itself, being provided for in the project that the relevant possession for the purposes of Uscapion is not interrupted by virtue of this procedure, and thus, on the whole, the constitutional rights and guarantees are ensured, in particular the right of ownership of all holders of the buildings. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u175	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Luís Gomes, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The presentation of this bill serves for the Socialist Party to whitewash its inability to ensure proper planning of the territory and, in particular, of the forest areas.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u177	All right! [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u178	The PS, instead of improving existing legislation, has created, with this bill, more legislative entropy, as a sort of fault of mine to fill its omissions in the fight against devastating forest fires. [[PSD applause.]] It therefore creates news fires, masked by legislative initiatives, producing legislation over legislation. This is the advertising government, promising investments that then clearly fall short of expectations. We all remember Mariana Vieira da Silva, when he said that the Natural Park of Serra da Estrela was going to get better than it was after the forest fires. Well, I suggest you visit Vouzela and Tondela, for example, to evaluate the implementation of the announced measures minimizing the damage caused by the 2017 fires in Serra do Caramulo. Was the promised road network recovered? How was the village security? What actually exists are forest areas transformed into a "powder barrel" for lack of sorting, for lack of promised and announced investment. [[PSD applause.]] This bill has serious gaps and can never be implemented without its regulations. Can anyone believe that the Treasury and Finance Directorate-General has the rustic register of state properties? Oh, my God! Tell me the gentlemen. Members how can this bill be credible, when it says that the maximum land lease time is 7 years, and this is the minimum time to enable perennial plantations. It is definitely not a priority for this government to order and organize the territory. That is why the Government has never brought to this House the report on the state of the planning of the territory, as required by law. Yes, they heard well: the Government has not complied with the Legal Regime of Territorial Management Instruments for seven years. [[PSD applause.]] This is the government that intends to withdraw Community funds from municipalities that do not revise their plans, when, for example, the government does not even have its updated plans. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The position of this government can be summed up in a sentence: « Well prays Brother Thomas ; look at what he says, do not look at what he does. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD applause.]] The consequences of this contempt, of this irresponsibility, have left profound marks in the secular landscape of this country, in the rural economy, in the economy and in the life of the interior, and the government always acts in the same way: it promises millions, spreads illusions and the people have always stayed with the same coughs. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u179	For an intervention, Mr João Miguel Nicolau of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Investment in prevention and combatting rural fires has been enormous, especially in the last five years. It is not new for all of us that climate change has become increasingly frequent the conditions conducive to the ignition of fires, but the abandonment of property is largely responsible for the spread of fires. More than half of the population currently lives in urban areas, away from the rustic property, away from the primary sector. On the other hand, the forest has not had the necessary profitability to make the investment attractive, from the start to the mini-fund, which needs to gain scale. Finally, there is a successive right that allows the existence of 30 % of the rustic property in situations of individual inheritance, which often does not contribute to a smooth decision and management of the property, to which we add more than 1 million hectares of rustic property that are estimated to have no known owner. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is essential to strengthen knowledge about rustic property, to know who belongs, to know who is responsible for its management. Measures such as those of the simplified register, which progresses at a good pace, and that of the creation of the land bank, which we are discussing today, are fundamental measures. Knowing and managing the best way is essential to ensure that, in the face of increasingly adverse climate conditions, there are discontinuities and fuel load reductions that reduce fire progression. Many have attacked farming and forestry in this House in a radical attack on certain crops. And those who come here today to want to fight the abandonment of property are also those who combat much of the forestry practiced today, forgetting that the solution is not the prohibition or liberalisation, but rather the balanced control and management of the territory. The PSD talks about forest management and forest reform, but the truth is, when they were government, what they managed was to liberalize eucalyptus plantation in the small estate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Imagine who was the PSD’s board leader at that time... it was Luís Montenegro, the president of the PSD! [[Thank you very much, Mr Miguel Santos.]] So, in terms of forest management, we are talking to the greatest party in the opposition! In good time the PS set up the liberalisation of new plantations without authorization. Getting to know the territory and working together with producers, forest associations, baldium associations, the state, local administration and all citizens is essential so that we can manage and make the rural space more profitable, increasingly reconquering land to abandoned and uncultivated land. The Government has, in fact, committed itself to giving the best response not only to the fight, but also to the structural change of the forest, through mechanisms such as simplified registration, the Landscape Transformation Programme, the establishment of integrated landscape management areas and the maintenance of the Primary Fuel Management Branch Network. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is not an ideological issue that divides us. The work of knowing the rustic property and taking care of the land with agricultural and forestry skills is a design that has to summon us all. For our safety, for our economy, for territorial cohesion, it is important to recognize the value and importance of agriculture and forestry as key elements in fire prevention. Today, the PS makes another important contribution to forest reform in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u181	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares asked for the floor for an appeal to the Bureau, so you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u182	Mr President, may I ask the Bureau to request the distribution of a document, because we have recently seen the fact that Mr. Pedro Pinto has no reason to evoke any fraud in the accounts of the Left Block, to highlight the relations that the Left Block has had with the Spanish Power...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u183	But they have, don't they? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u184	... and use this House to spread false news in the Portuguese Parliament,... [[CH protests.]] ... already denied by the Spanish courts. [[CH protests, displaying photographs and news of newspapers.]] I would like to ask for the distribution of Spanish news, because it is false what Mr. Pedro Pinto has said, that if he had some kind of shame in his face, he would apologize for what he has done. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[CH-protests and BE-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u185	Thank you very much, Mr President, and please send to the Bureau the document you want to distribute. Mr Paulo Ramalho, from the PSD, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u186	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I have no doubt that we all want a more cohesive and sustainable Portugal, and sustainability should be seen in its triple dimension: social, economic and environmental. We also have no doubt about the importance of building roads that allow the full use of the resources available to us in order to ensure the production of food and raw materials in a sustainable way and that, at the same time, they are able to respond to the challenges of climate change. It is true that we have an agricultural business fabric of the oldest in the European Union, with an average age of 65 years. There shall be up to 4 % farmers under 40 years of age. It is also an unforgettable fact that we have an excessively fractionated forest with a shortage of ordination. But, being not possessors of the truth, nor having powers of guessing, our conviction is that the diploma of creation of the land bank and the land mobilisation fund, which today will be approved, but not by the socialist majority, will not add much to the resolution of the problems and challenges facing the agricultural and forestry producers and even the territory today. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u187	From then on, this Bill No 280 / XV / 1. the Socialist Party, in practice, adds nothing very special to the National Land Exchange, created in 2012, with very similar purposes. We must not forget, as someone recently recalled, that in the context of the sale and lease of agricultural land there is a functioning market. In fact, lands with good agricultural skills do not need scholarship to be traded. As for those who are good and are from the state, I have the greatest reserves to be placed in the land bank. I am reminding myself of examples such as the lands of the Laziria Company, lands of the Vairão agrarian station and other land linked to the ancient experimental stations. On the other hand, the State, in reality, has not shown to be a particularly competent manager. I recall that since 2012 the National Land Exchange, under the management of the Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development, has only helped to sell and rent 372 rustic buildings, and from around 6,000 buildings in the state, only leased 36. Other public entities and public institutes sold 21 rustic plots and rented 15. With regard to private properties, only 169 rustic plots and leased 111 were sold through the National Land Exchange. In nine years of life, honestly, it's very little. in this, we agree. [[PSD applause.]] It is very important to listen to the actors of the territory, their representatives and organizations. Only in this way can we build public policies that effectively respond to the collective challenges and problems that we all face, particularly the agricultural and forestry sector. The promotion of a true strategy for territorial cohesion and the fight against desertification of the interior is absolutely essential. We must be able to fix people in the territory, to give life to the territory. The creation of the Young Rural Entrepreneurship was a good measure, but it remained there. We need a strategy that values agricultural and forestry producers as economic actors who have the right to be paid justly for their activity, but also as caregivers of the rural landscape and the environment, which are recognized. The Ministry of Agriculture cannot be content with being little more than a mere manager of Community funds. Policies that promote parceling, which make access to less bureaucratic licensing and aid, which assist in access to qualified technical assistance, which protect the farmer in the value chain, which help to train and strengthen agricultural cooperatives and producer organisations are far more important contributions to the agricultural sector and to our security and food sovereignty than this simple land bank, which we are discussing today. The farmer cannot continue to be, and increasingly, the weakest link in the value chain. It is important to know that on average farmers receive less than 25 % of the final value paid by consumers. The government cannot continue to blow to the side.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u188	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u189	And, on the challenge of climate emergency, the important thing is that we start to work now in our collective future, implementing a strategy for the use and retention of our water resources, which will be able to get to the water where it really is needed. As someone said some time ago, agriculture does not waste water, uses water, and without water it is not possible to produce healthy food. On the other hand, the PSD, as a responsible party, will always be on the side of the best solutions for the Portuguese, knowing that who has the obligation and privilege of governance at this time is obviously the Socialist Party. We're sorry that sometimes they don't all look like it and they follow us. We are sure that the measures to support the agricultural and agri-food sector that we have recently presented in this Parliament, including a 20-cent discount per litre in agricultural gas oil, were even very important for farmers at this time of high inflationary pressure which is leaving many farms on the edge of insolvency. The Government and the Socialist Party here, yes, missed a good opportunity to demonstrate their closeness and real concern with the sector. But each, like everything in his life, naturally takes its priorities and, above all, its responsibilities. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u190	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr Pedro Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u191	Mr President, after seeing this little paper from the Left Block, written in Spanish, I have only to regret that the five BE Members are sitting here, because, indeed, this is so unworthy of being delivered to all parliamentary groups, of wasting time on all these parliamentary groups — a little paper of this size and with what is written here —... The speaker displayed the document he mentioned. ...that, for God's sake, we are blessed with patience. However, Mr President, we are going to hand over to the Left Block Parliamentary Group, unique and exclusively to the Left Block Parliamentary Group, this photograph,... The speaker showed the photograph he mentioned. ...which will certainly be framed by the BE Parliamentary Group room. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u192	Mr President, the Bureau does not safeguard relations between parliamentary groups, therefore, it is not an appeal to the Bureau, and any Member or Member here present, of whatever the political party is, is present here for one reason, which is that the Portuguese elected one. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u193	It's enough, too!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u194	For an intervention, Mr Pedro Frazão, of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u195	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We have reached the end of this debate and we see that, in the past half decade of the fires of 2017, we continue without a forest reform, we continue without a rural register and we continue without the protection of the lives of people, animals, forests, cultures and nature. And if, in 2016, we heard the Prime Minister, who today is also the incumbent, as Prime Minister, say that he was very shocked, because, in the last 10 years, the forest reform had not been done, we arrived here today and perhaps at the Socialist Party bench can say that they are very shocked, because the last five years of 2017 did not make the registration either. In fact, the PS is inverting priorities: if we do not have family doctors, we pass the newly licensed to specialists; if there are no teachers in Portugal, we lower the teaching skills of the Mrs. Teachers so that they can give lessons at ease; and, if we do not have registers of agricultural and forestry land and we do not know the owners, because « we will launch a new legislation so that we can lay hands on 1 million ha». You know what this is, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? This is the definition of ineptocracy, it is a country where the least capable lead, where they promote to other leaders less capable people and keep the whole population with subsidies, promoting those who are less working. [[Congrats from the CH.]] What we have to do, sirs. Members, it is to carry large lots of land, with more than 5000 ha, the public tender, so that they are economically viable. And we also have to pay producers for the carbon market, because producers have to receive the most valuable debt to fix the carbon they make. This legislation is also a'smooth pump', it is another fun maneuver to try to deceive the Portuguese. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u196	To close this debate, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u197	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group today presents in this House a real structural reform which, in realising itself, will give the State the ability to intervene sustainably in a common resource, our territory. The creation of the land bank is a key tool for responsible management of forests and agricultural land. The forest line today represents 1, 2 % of GDP, 10 % of exports of economic goods and 3 % of VAT and is a sector with a relevant impact on employment — more than 92 000 jobs, of which 25 000 in the primary sector. However, there is little concentration of ownership: between 2 % and 3 % of forest land is owned by public entities, much more than 90 % by private owners, the overwhelming majority being small micro and mini-fund owners. This makes it difficult to register the territories and makes it a significant part of the land without known owner—it is estimated that from 10 % to 20 % without known owner or owner. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is not indifferent to this reality. First, because from an economic point of view, it is necessary to dynamize the sector, add forest land, increase the average size of farms and allow access to these territories to young farmers and other publics who can engage in these activities within our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But there are also environmental reasons. The forest is a unique amount of CO2, so good forest exploitation creates wealth and contributes to combating climate change. Therefore, with respect for private property, for each individual, in the constitutional framework,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u198	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u199	... what the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group proposes to all democratic forces, I stress, to all the democratic forces of this Chamber is an open process, in its specialty, to strengthen and make this instrument better, allowing this Parliament, this House, where reforms, and the most important reforms, to contribute to a better life of all Portuguese. We are all called for this reform, we do not exclude anyone, we will move forward with a fundamental reform, making use of our mandate to improve the lives of the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u200	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus ended this debate and we will start the voting period. I would ask the departments to operate the quorum verification system for deliberation and call on the Members of Parliament and the Members of the Commission. Members who sign their presence. [[Pause.]] I wonder if any Member of Parliament or some Member of Parliament has not been able to register.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u201	I couldn't register, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u202	Have any more Members or Members not been able to register? [[Pause.]] All the Members and the Members. Members heard the question, so I ask the services that publish in the electronic panel the result of the quorum verification, and the Bureau will still record the presence of Mr Joaquim Miranda Sarmento and Mrs Sofia Matos. We have a panel of deliberations, so we are going to start the votes, but before then I will excuse you. Vice-Presidents of the Bureau to be able to conduct their voting work until 17 p.m. Let us then start the voting period, which will be relatively long. We begin by voting, in general, the Bill No. 280 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Creates the land bank and land mobilization fund. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS, the BE and the L, votes against the IL and the PCP and abstentions from the PSD, the CH and the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, this bill goes down to 7. the Commission. We are now voting on a request by the NAP for a downgrade to the respective committee, which is 7. the Commission, without a general vote for 60 days of Bill No. 249 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Approves a national deeucalisation programme. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Therefore, the bill goes down, for 60 days, to 7. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 261 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Definition and execution of procedures for post-fire situations. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L, votes against the PS and abstentions from the PSD and the IL.]] The general vote of Bill No. 297 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( BE ) — Creates the public bank of agricultural land. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH, IL and PCP were rejected, votes against BE and L and the abstention from the NAP.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 179 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government develop an action plan to address the damage caused by the July 2022 fires. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE, the PAN and the L and the PCP abstention.]] We now vote on the Resolution Project No. 182 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government adopt forest management measures and review the Integrated Rural Fire Management System. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of the PS, CH, IL, PAN and L and with abstentions from the CFP and BE.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 183 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government create support measures for forest, agricultural and environmental enterprises during contingency and early warning periods. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the BE were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH and the IL and abstentions against the PAN and the L.]] We voted for a request by the NAP to the Committee on the Environment and Energy, without a 60-day vote of draft resolution No 201 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the renaturalization and prohibition of hunting in the Natural Park of Serra da Estrela. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 221 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Emergency programme for the Star greenhouse. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of CH, PCP, BE and L and abstentions from PSD, IL, PAN and PS Deputies António Monteirinho and Cristina Sousa.]] The vote on draft resolution No 65 / XV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends measures to the Government to abandon the use of dangerous pesticides and to promote the principle of integrated protection. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CH, BE, PAN and L, and abstention from the CFP.]] We now vote on Resolution Project No 171 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government, under Law No 108 / 2017 of 23 November, extend the measures to support the victims of forest fires in mainland Portugal in 2017 and the victims of the fires in July 2022. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of CH, IL, PCP, BE, PAN and L and abstention from the PSD.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 174 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government the licensing of fishing gear referred to as ‘rail’. [[The vote was taken by votes to PS, PS, CH, IL and L and with abstentions from the CFP, BE and PAN.]] We shall now vote together on the requests made by the PSD, the BE and the PCP for a vote by the plenary, in the specialty, of its proposals for amendments to the Bill No 33 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Determines the income update coefficient for 2023, creates extraordinary rental support, reduces VAT in the supply of electricity and establishes a transitional pension update regime. If the requests are approved, we will open a period of two-minute interventions to each parliamentary group and party to base and defend their proposed amendments. Let us then vote on the requests. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Therefore, we have opened the period of intervention. They begin the PSD, BE and PCP and then follow the other parliamentary groups and the DURP (only party representatives) that they understand. To intervene, each parliamentary group has 2 minutes and the DURP has 1 minute. For the PSD, Mr. Hugo Carneiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u203	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This opportunity we have today to vote again on the proposals that have been voted on, particularly those of the PSD, is the last and last opportunity to put an end to the achievement that the Socialist Party and the Government have presented to the country and to the Portuguese. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u204	The Government intends to cut EUR 1000 million into the pension system. There is no doubt: it is EUR 1000 million! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u205	Probably, in the history of Portugal, there has never been such a relevant cut, imposed on pensioners, which has the property of this value. [[PSD applause.]] The government intends to do so by failing to comply with the law which required that updates take place from January onwards according to a framework that is perfectly defined and that should consider both the values of inflation and the values of growth. The government opts to find a scheme to penalise all pensioners. It is a proposal by the Socialist Party and the Government that is deeply unjust. There is a horrendous injustice here, and the PS has the unique opportunity to have here a rebuff of consciousness and correct the great evil that is imposing on all Portuguese. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u206	This is your last chance. No one understands why the Government opts to omit the truth of social security numbers or to talk about what is its macroeconomic scenario, even referred to by the President himself. They run to discuss in the public square the truth about the reality of the country or the challenges we will have to face. It is appropriate to say that the government no longer rules for the Portuguese. The government rules, yes, against all Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u207	Mrs Mariana Mortágua from the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u208	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This diploma will not be known as the law that supported families in the face of the biggest inflationist outbreak of decades, but as the one that denies pensioners the updating of reforms to which they are entitled. Nothing will delete and nothing will compensate for this evidence—not the 125 €, which do not even reach the increase in monthly service to the bank; nor the reduction in VAT, which does not pay two coffees; nor the fixing of income by 2 %, four times the value of the update of 2021. No measure of this diploma deletes the machadada that the government wants to give in future pensions for reformed people in Portugal. Without this measure, this bill would be little more than nothing, but with it, this diploma becomes unacceptable for all those who want to defend the rights of pensioners and comply with the law of updating pensions. The Prime Minister can manipulate the arguments to tell pensioners that he is supporting them. The Government may manipulate the accounts it sends to the Assembly of the Republic to invoke the preferred devil on the right, which is the supposed unsustainability of social security. However, no trick will mislead the purpose of this law, which is to cut down pensioners' rights and limit the increase in the future pension. That is the choice which Members of the Socialist Party make today. That is the choice we advocate to repeat the vote that has been made in particular. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u209	Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u210	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A retired pensioner with a €500 reform will lose, in 2022, about €490 of his purchasing power. The government intends to grant it a single benefit of €250 to compensate for those €490, and on behalf of that, it wants to cut the pension increase in 2023, starting to receive only €522, instead of the €540 that sends the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u211	More than 125 € we've already given!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u212	A worker with a salary of 1000 € will lose, in 2022, about 700 € of purchasing power. The government wants to award it a single benefit of € 125, but which will still be subject to 23 % of IRS, remaining at €96 net. Mrs. Members, 96 € to compensate 700 € is the government's proposal! During the year 2021, gas oil and gasoline reached maximum price increases of almost 25 %. In 2022, these maximum increases had already reached more than 36 % above the prices of 2021. Galp's profits in the first half of the year ranged from 116 to 420 million euros. The Government does not propose measures to stop price increases or to tax profits. These situations of people's concrete lives are, in fact, what is at stake with the votes that are now being held in this House. The CFP submitted and advocated a proposal that the purchasing power of the reformees be fully restored in 2022 and that in 2023 the reforms and pensions be increased as the law commands, without cuts. The absolute majority of PS rejected this proposal. The PCP proposed solutions for the general increase in wages that it rests and values the lost purchasing power in 2022, in order to improve the living conditions of all workers in the public and private sectors. The PS and the right refuse these solutions. The CFP has proposed solutions to control and fix fuel prices, such as electricity and gas, and has also proposed the effective taxation of the extraordinary profits of economic groups. The PS and the right refuse these solutions. The Government's proposal to penalise pensioners and pensioners, preventing increases in pension pensions to which they are entitled. Even the PSD, by rejecting an interim increase in pension pensions and by proposing the withdrawal of the half pension allocated in October, is defending that the pensioners are not returned to the purchasing power they lost. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CFP has advocated these proposals to the Plenary and the Assembly of the Republic has the opportunity to resolve and avoid these problems rather than to create and aggravate them. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u213	Mr. André Ventura, from arrive, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u214	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government's proposal represents a fraud of what pensioners expected and what the country expected. while announcing a pension bonus, the government changed the formula for calculating these same pensions and did not do more than anticipate what was due next year. Basically, the government decided to take what it was going to give next year, amending the calculation formula, but still presenting it as a major support measure. More serious: the Government has sent a report to all parliamentary groups — and, Mr President, I apologize to all the speakers and to all those who participated in it — who are supposed to be specialists, but who is a huge outrage to the Portuguese people and to the Members of this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u215	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u216	So the arrival has already called here, to Parliament, all those who participated in it, to explain how it is possible to account that no other prosecutor and no other specialist can do. Only the PS were able to make those accounts. It may be said, Mr President, that it is magic, but I prefer to bet on the adrabice and not on the magic, because I understand that the PS and the government are misleading the Portuguese. But it's not just, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. As he said that all pensioners would receive a bonus, the government omitted a fundamental fact: those thousands — not to say millions — of pensioners who share their discount between the public social security system and the private pension system will not receive the bonus that had been promised. This House, which deserves to represent all Portuguese, wanted to pay tribute to 30 000 bankers — 30 000 bankers! — which are outside the pension bonus which you have awarded in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]] That's, yeah, it's a shame! They are men and women who have worked for a lifetime, to whom they said they had to discount in different systems and who are now discriminated against by the other Portuguese. The PS learned from the extreme left one thing: to treat those who work, those who invest, those who produce wealth, those who strive as a true disposable part of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u217	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u218	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, don't be mistaken, you may have a majority that lasts three or four years, but these men and women, one day, when they are called again to choose, will not forget the evil that you, along with those other gentlemen on the left, have done to them. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u219	To speak on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mrs Carla Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u220	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have heard here expressions of 'end of achievement' and that 'the PS is making the greatest increase in pension cuts'. The Liberal Initiative has requested data on the models, on the assumptions sent, in these days, to this House, of which are the values of demography, growth, wages, and, once again, the Government is infantilizing the Portuguese, again is infantilizing the parties, once again there is opacity in the information. This is not the way politics is made, it is not the way people are treated, it is not the way that the seriousness of policy foundations must be done, and we will continue to fight for this. We have also heard that 'the diploma does not erase the machadada' or 'we need to tax profits', but there is another important idea that we do not want to let go. The country has, yes, to recover from the slaughter and has, yes, to create wealth, but it is the legacy of management that leaves 40% of the population on the edge of poverty and a country of minimum wages. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u221	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u222	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Worse than a package of measures, which is of little value to families,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u223	“Pacotinho”? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u224	...is, in fact, this government proposal being known as a proposal that will play out, deceive pensioners. This, in addition, is more serious when we have a tax surplus of EUR 4300 million. In other words, a surplus with which the government was not counting and which is not investing to get to the most needed people. at this time, besides not being clear about the criteria for updating and safeguarding pensioners' rights, we also have pensioners to be notified to pay debts to social security without grounds, debts that already rise to several years, including by surviving spouses who are requesting the right to survival pension. That is not what the Portuguese hoped for at this time of crisis, and that is why the NAP cannot advocate its own proposals for amendment by statutory limitation, in this vote it will follow all the measures of the other political forces aimed at clarifying the updating of pensions, guaranteeing the rights of families and pensioners, but also taxing extraordinary profits, because it is immoral that they continue to give tax bills and that they continue to hand over to those who are more polluting and those who profit most, such as large oil producers or even energy producers.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u225	To speak on behalf of the Free House, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u226	Mr President, this moment is a huge challenge, a huge difficulty for everyone who is waiting, with anguish, for the next electricity account or who looks, bochiaberto, for the purchase bill in the supermarket. It would also be an opportunity for public authorities to be able to give people confidence, to say that they are here, now that taboos of price tables or the direct transfer of money to people fall, but unfortunately this opportunity has not been taken advantage of when uncertainty and anxiety are left over what will happen to pensions. The Free House had a different proposal to ensure that the calculation of pensions included the extraordinary benefit to be transferred now and that by the first quarter of next year the Government would submit a report on the new sources of social security financing to extend its sustainability. In taxing excessive profits, it is incomprehensible that if any of us win the Euromillions—I wish you all! — you have to pay 20 % seal tax on a profit, which is certainly unexpected, when companies that have unexpected profits now do not pay a tax on excessive profits. How can this be explained? [[Protests by IL Member João Cotrim Figueiredo.]] As it is not possible to explain that VAT falls only for some categories of energy consumption, not for all. Unfortunately, as a non-parliamentary group, the Free will cannot advocate its own proposals and will therefore, with only two abstentions in PSD proposals, follow the proposals in these areas which have been made here by other parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u227	To speak on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mr. Miguel Matos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u228	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are now approving a programme, the First Families, which is twice the programme that Germany is approving. [[PSD and CH protests.]] It is EUR 2400 million, to which EUR 1500 million is added next year, plus EUR 1400 million for companies in the Energy to Advance Programme. [[IL Rodrigo Saraiva's laughs.]] Are you responding to all the challenges? It responds, as far as possible, with responsibility, to the exact measure of the increase in the revenue we will have due to inflation. And what do we see in this debate in all opposition parties? We see that some want to anticipate the answers that we should give later, in the Budget and later on; or that some also want the government to give answers that are already being prepared, as in credit for housing; or that it responds to some problems for which we already have answers, as is the case with the electricity market, which today in Portugal has the lowest daily prices in Europe. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Members Emilia Cerqueira and Hugo Carneiro.]] And what do we see in the PSD? The PSD wants to try to promote in pensioners the fear that they themselves caused when they cut off pensions, but unlike those times of bad memory, today we are not cutting pensions and a lie said 1000 times, here or anywhere, it will not become true. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CH protests.]] The government will increase pensions and, not only will it increase pensions as, in the face of increased cost of living, it will anticipate, by this year, a half-pension response to face this cost of living. When the program was for a few, they criticized; now that it is for many, that it is twice the value and for half the time, they criticize. They now call it a « accomplishment», but they have already given up their true achievement,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u229	It's an achievement!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u230	...that was the food valley that restricted those who needed the support they gave. But what counts is who does and the Portuguese know who does.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u231	Oh, you know that!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u232	In Germany it is EUR 60 billion!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u233	Who does it is the Government of the Socialist Party, with safe steps to support income, families and businesses. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH-protests and PS-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u234	After the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the amendments to the Bill No 33 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Determines the income update coefficient for 2023, creates extraordinary rental support, reduces VAT in the supply of electricity and establishes a transitional pension update regime. We shall then vote on the rules of appeal in the specialty. Let us begin by voting on the proposal for an amendment to Article 1 ( PSD ). The proposal of the law. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and IL, votes in favour of the PSD, the CH, the PAN and the L and abstentions of the CFP and the BE.]] It was as follows: Article 1. o [...] [...] : (a) [...] ; (b) [...] ; (c) [...] ; (d) [ Eliminated] ; (e) extends the scope of extraordinary support of € 125 to pensioners with gross income up to €37,500, making the first amendment of Decree-Law No 57 - C / 2022 of 6 September ; (f) ensures compliance in 2023 with the statutory pension updating scheme.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u235	The vote on the proposal for a replacement of Article 4 ( CFP ) shall follow. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the CCP, the BE and the L and the NAP abstention.]] It was as follows: Article 4 the addition to list I annexed to the Added Value Tax Code Words 2.12, 2.16 and 2.38 are added to list I annexed to the Added Value Tax Code, approved in Annex to Decree-Law No 394 - B / 84 of 26 December ( VAT code ), as follows: « 2. 12 — Electricity. 2.16 — Natural gas. 2.38 — Propane, butane and its mixtures, bottled or channeled. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u236	We shall vote on the proposal from the Left Block to replace Article 4. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the CCP, the BE and the L and the NAP abstention.]] It was as follows: Article 4 o (... ) Words 2.12, 2.16 and 2.38 are added to list I annexed to the Added Value Tax Code, approved in Annex to Decree-Law No 394 - B / 84 of 26 December ( VAT code ), as follows: « 2. 12 — Electricity; 2.16 — Natural gas; 2.38 — Propane, butane or derivative gas, bottled or channeled. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u237	The vote on the proposal for an addendum to Article 4 of the CFP is hereby followed. o-B to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L.]] It was as follows: Article 4 o-B Contribution on extraordinary gains 1 — A contribution is made on extraordinary gains in the energy, banking, insurance and food distribution sectors applicable to companies with net income exceeding EUR 35 million in the economic years of 2022 and 2023. 2 — The value of the contribution shall be determined by the application of a 35 % rate at the amount of the difference between the net result determined in each year compared to that calculated in 2021. 3 — The contribution on extraordinary gains is not considered to be a deductible charge for the purposes of determining the taxable profit in IRC, even when counted as expenditure of the taxation period. 4 — The contribution on extraordinary gains cannot be reflected in the prices paid by consumers for goods or services. 5 — The regulation of the contribution on extraordinary gains, in particular as regards the application of a retention scheme in source on the semi-annual net result, is the subject of Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u238	We now vote on the proposal from the PSD to delete Article 5. o (Transitional pension updating regime) of the bill. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] The vote on the proposal from the CFP to delete Article 5 shall follow. o (Transitional pension updating regime) of the bill. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal, the Left Block, amending Article 5 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS and IL and votes in favour of PSD, CH, PCP, BE, PAN and L.]] It was as follows: Article 5. the updating of pensions and the indexer of social support 1 — The updating of pensions and the social support indexer ( IAS) in 2023 is carried out in accordance with Law No 53 - B / 2006 of 29 December 2006.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u239	The vote is followed by the vote on the proposal, the Left Block, amending Article 5 ( 3 ). The proposal of the law. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of CH, IL, PCP, BE, PAN and L and abstention from the PSD.]] It was as follows: 3 — The value of pensions and IAS is updated with effect from 1 January 2023.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u240	We shall vote on the proposal from the PSD to add Article 5. o -A to the bill. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the IL and the PCP and votes against the PSD, the CH, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] It was as follows: Article 5. o -The Amendment to Decree-Law No 57 - C / 2022, of 6 September Articles 2. a is 4. the Decree-Law No 57 - C / 2022 of 6 September, which establishes exceptional measures to support families to mitigate the effects of inflation, are replaced by the following: « Article 2. o [...] 1 - [...]. 2 - [...]. 3 - [...] : ( a) They have declared gross income up to EUR 37 800 in the statement of income referred to in Article 57 ( 1 ). that of the Tax Code on the Income of Single Persons ( IRS Code) for the year 2021, including those who have declared income of category H when they only respect benefits due as retirement or retirement pensions, old age, invalidity or survival, and also when paid exclusively by national entities beyond the Social Security Institute, I.P. ( ISS, I.P. ) , and the General Assessment Box, I. P. ( CGA, I.P. ) , or qualify as food pensions; b) [...]; c) [...] ; d) [...]. 4 - [...]. 5 - [...]. 6 - [...]. 7 - [...]. 8 - [...]. Article 4 o [... ] [ Revoked] »
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u241	The vote on the proposal for an addendum to Article 5 shall follow. o -A to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and IL were rejected and votes against CH, PCP, BE, PAN and L.]] It was as follows: Article 5. o -The mid-term increase in pensions The statutory invalidity and old-age pensions of the general social security scheme and other pensions, allowances and supplements provided for in Ordinance No 1514/2008 of 24 December 2008 shall be subject to an interim increase of 6, 9 % with effect from 1 September.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u242	We shall vote on the proposal from the Left Block to add Article 5. o -A to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L.]] It was as follows: Article 5. -The increase in the value of the guaranteed monthly minimum wage The Government will immediately increase the value of the GRM to €800.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u243	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal, the PSD, for the addition of Article 5. o-B to the bill. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and IL, votes in favour of the PSD, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the CH.]] It was as follows: Article 5. o-B Update of pensions By 31 December 2022, the Government shall update by 2023 the value of pensions allocated by the social security system as well as the pensions of the convergent social protection scheme granted by the General Taxation Board, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the legislation in force, in particular Laws 53 - B / 2006 of 29 December and 52 / 2007 of 31 August 2007 in its current wording.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u244	We are now voting on the proposal from the CFP to add Article 5. o-B to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L.]] It was as follows: Article 5. o-B Value of the purchasing power of workers The Government shall adopt measures leading to the replacement of the purchasing power of all workers, including the collective bargaining process with the representative organisations of the employees of the Public Administration with a view to achieving an interim increase of remuneration not less than 6 %, with application from 1 September 2022.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u245	We shall vote on the proposal from the Left Block to add Article 5. o-B to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and IL were rejected and votes against CH, PCP, BE, PAN and L.]] It was as follows: Article 5b Increase in salaries of employees of the Public Administration and the business sector of the State By the end of 2022, the Government will develop a negotiation process with the trade unions and representative structures of public administration workers and the State business sector, on the basis of the following: (a) Update of the basic remuneration in the Public Administration according to the increase in the guaranteed monthly minimum wage provided for in the preceding article ; (b) Update of the monetary amounts of the remuneration levels of the single remuneration table taking into account the increase in essential goods and the new structure of family expenditure, taking as a proposal-base increases in line with inflation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u246	We shall vote on the proposal from the CFP to add Article 5. o-C to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE, NAP and L and the abstention from the CH.]] It was as follows: Article 5. o-C Amendment to the Annex to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 Articles 3. o, 500. o, 502. the Labour Code, approved in Annex to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 in the current wording, is replaced by the following: « Article 3. o (... ) (d) the principle of good faith. 2 — Higher sources of law always prevail over lower sources of law, except in the part where they establish more favourable treatment for the worker. 3 — The legal rules on labour regulations may be removed by a collective working regulation instrument where the latter sets out conditions which are more favourable to the worker, except when they prove otherwise. 4 — The legal rules on labour regulations may only be removed by individual employment contracts when they establish conditions that are more favourable to the worker, if they do not result in the opposite. 5 — Legal regulations governing employment contracts may not be removed by working conditions. 6 — The rules of collective labour regulations may only be removed by a contract of employment when it establishes conditions that are more favourable to the worker. Article 500. the Complaint of a Collective Convention 1 — Any party may denounce the collective convention with effect at the end of each period of validity, by means of communication addressed to the other party, accompanied by its negotiating proposal. Article 502. o Cessation of the validity of collective agreement 1 — The collective convention may only cease: (a) revocation by agreement of the parties. (b) the entry into force of a collective convention replacing it. 2 — [Repeat] 3 — [Repeat] 4 — The rules concerning the deposit and publication of a collective convention apply to the revocation. 5 — The revocation does not prejudice the rights arising from the Convention, continuing its regime to apply to individual employment contracts previously concluded and their renewals. 6 — [Repeat] 7 — [Repeat] 8 — [Repeat] »
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u247	The vote is followed by the vote on the proposal, the Left Block, for the addition of Article 5. o-C to the bill. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of CH, IL, PCP, BE, PAN and L and abstention from the PSD.]] It was as follows: Article 5. o-C Review of contracts concluded with external undertakings and cooperation agreements with the social sector By the end of 2022, the Government will review contracts concluded by public bodies with external companies as well as cooperation agreements with the social sector by updating its values taking into account the impact of the increase in GRM.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u248	We now vote on the proposal from the PSD to amend Article 6. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the PAN were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH, the IL and the BE and the L abstention.]] It was as follows: Article 6. o [...] ( b) Article 4. the Decree-Law No 57 - C / 2022, of 6 September.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u249	Finally, we voted on the proposal from the CFP to amend Article 6. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L.]] It was as follows: Article 6. the Revoking Standard 1 — Paragraph 2.8 of List II annexed to the VAT Code is hereby repealed. 2 — Articles 5 are repealed. a and 10. the Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the revision of the Labour Code and Articles 447. paragraph 9, 456. paragraph 3, 497. o, 501. o, 501. o -A, paragraphs 2, 3, 6, 7 and 8 of Article 502. Article 512, paragraph 2. Article 513. that of the Labour Code, as annexed to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 in its current wording.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u250	Mrs Paula Santos asked for the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u251	Mr President, I would just like to confirm whether the meaning of the CFP's vote in the proposal submitted by the PSD for the addition of Article 5. o-B to the bill was registered as being in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u252	PCP voted in favour. We shall then proceed to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance on the Proposal for a Law No 33 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Determines the income update coefficient for 2023, creates extraordinary rental support, reduces VAT in the supply of electricity and establishes a transitional pension update regime. [[The vote was taken by votes to PS and CH, votes against PSD, IL, PCP and BE, and abstentions to PAN and L.]] Mr Rui Tavares asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u253	Mr President, it is only to inform us that we will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u254	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. I note this plurality and report that paragraphs 1 to 16 of the Diário are under approval for plenary meetings held on 29 and 31 March, 7, 8, 13, 20, 21, 22, 25, 27, 28 and 29 April and 23, 24 and 25 May 2022. There are no objections, they are deemed to be approved. We shall vote for an opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, and I ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u255	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Central Court for Criminal Instruction of Lisbon — TICC — Judge 3, Case No 3633 / 21.8T9LSB, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members decided to issue an opinion to authorize the lifting of parliamentary immunity to Mr Pedro dos Santos Frazão ( CH ) within the scope of the cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u256	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I now communicate the results of the election to Vice-President of the Assembly of the Republic, and the candidate proposed Mr Rui Paulo Sousa of the Parliamentary Group of the Czech Republic: 213 Members voted, and 64 votes 'yes' were registered, 137 white votes and 12 null votes. in this regard, it is considered not elected to the Vice-President of the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u257	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u258	Mr. André Ventura asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u259	Mr President, I would like to take the floor, if possible, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, first of all to thank the Bureau and the Bureau of the Assembly of the Republic for allowing a new vote to be held for the Vice-President of the Assembly of the Republic, as we had indeed combined in the Conference of Leaders. If I may, I would also like to say, on this vote, that it has been understood by the Rules of Procedure and also by the Constitution that it does not make much sense for the Assembly of the Republic to function only with two Vice-Presidents, when the Rules of Procedure and, above all, the Constitution establish this prerogative for the four largest parliamentary groups. in this follow-up, and indeed, as we have been giving notice, to you and all parliamentary groups, the Chega presented candidates with different profiles for the Assembly of the Republic to speak on its viability to occupy the post of Vice-President. It is with particular sadness that we watch what is at stake here. What is at issue is neither the profile of Mr Rui Paulo Sousa nor Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro, nor the profile of Mr Diogo Pacheco de Amorim, but a true boycott to arrive. This is a partisan boycott, an ideological boycott, and it is something that is not very good for a House to do, although, and I stress, Mr President, if I may, that arrives to respect the vote of its peers, because that is how we do in democracy. In our view, this is the biggest boycott in Western Europe that there is memory of a political party. [[Congrats from the CH.]] In our view, Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias and PS parliamentary leader, this was not a decision of the Arrival, the Liberal Initiative, the PSD, or the President of the Assembly of the Republic. This result has only one person responsible, only one party that is responsible for it and this one is the party that governs Portugal. [[Congrats from a PS officer.]] You may be happy, sir! You may be happy, you may be happy! [[Ah!]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u260	Please conclude, Mr President. [[CH-protests and PS-protests.]] I would like to ask the House to be silent, and Mr President, to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u261	I shall conclude, Mr President, This result, Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias, and the whole bench of the Socialist Party, is directly imputable to you. They are responsible for a shameful parliamentary boycott, a boycott with which the Portuguese did not agree, and therefore they gave the place of the third largest political force, which you want to ignore. They can ignore once, they can ignore twice, but they may not be able to ignore when there are elections again. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u262	Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias asks for the floor, I suppose for the same purpose. You have the floor, Mr President, and I would like to ask for the opportunity to hear the speaker.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u263	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We had in the Assembly of the Republic once again a free and democratic election: 120 Members of this bench voted in a free and democratic manner. They voted with their convictions, voted with the mandate given to them by the voters, and in that mandate there was no boycott, but, yes, a red line for all those who are against democracy and are against the democratic system. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests, having the deputies beaten with their hands on the benches, and PS counterprotests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u264	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask that the conditions be laid down for the speaker to be able to conclude his speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u265	Therefore, Mr President, I am not responsible, we are 120, but I am proud to lead a bench that in all the most difficult circumstances — when we are a majority, but also when we were a minority, when we were a majority in democracy, but also when we were a minority when we fought against fascism and those who were anti-democratic — in the face of lack of freedom, before those who want to attack the most precious foundations of the democratic state, do not hesitate. Between us and the democratic extreme right,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u266	Between us and the far-right anti-democratic line there is a red line that I and 120 Members will never cross. with us, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, they won't pass. [[P.S.'s applause, PS. Miguel Matos's gentleman applauded standing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u267	I assume that for the same purpose, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the IL, asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u268	Mr President, in this matter of Vice-Presidentship I have felt somewhat covered, because Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias, the parliamentary leader of the Socialist Party's bench, says that, in freedom and conscience, the PS does not vote beyond what calls red lines of those who do not defend democracy. I remind you, Mr President, that on March 31 most of your bench did not vote on my name as Vice-President of this House. And I want to know, I want to know what your political reading today is of this decision not to give guidance to your bench. I want to know if you consider the Liberal Initiative beyond these supposed red lines that no one has given you the right to establish in relation to the votes that the Portuguese put in the ballot when they go to the election! No one has given him that right, and therefore I demand to know whether in your opinion the Liberal Initiative is on either side of these supposed red lines! [[Congratulations from the IL and from the members of the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u269	I understand that the result of a vote with the meaning of a vote for the Vice-President of the Assembly of the Republic awakens comments and I have therefore given the floor to the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, ask for it. I shall also briefly give the floor to Mr Eurico Brillante Dias, who asks me to reply to Mr João Cotrim Figueiredo if no parliamentary group opposes, although there are obviously no requests for clarification here, and I therefore ask that we conclude this debate immediately. The positions are expressed and, having no objection, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u270	Mr President, Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo, I would like to mention two aspects. If, on the date that a member of the Liberal Initiative referred to, he had 110 votes of Members, it was because the vast majority of the votes he had come from this bench. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That's why, Mr.... [[CH and IL protests and PS counter-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u271	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for your restraint and silence.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u272	Mr Cotrim Figueiredo, as you know, I myself voted in V. Exa for Vice-President. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u273	Mr Deputy, in democracy, we accept the election results. And I invite you to present the candidate to understand the Vice-President of this Chamber and you will again have my vote. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u274	Mr Pedro Pinto, do you also ask for the floor on this point?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u275	Mr President, I will also have to make an inquiry to the Bureau after hearing Mr Eurico Brillante Dias' statements. If you have opened an exception for Mr Eurico Brillante Dias, I believe it will also have to be open to us.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u276	I ask you to be brief and to ask all of us and all of us. Ladies and gentlemen, be quiet. Mr President, as soon as I know what you are capable of, you have a word.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u277	Mr President, I believe that Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias has just finished the way he had to start recently: in democracy we have to accept the results.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u278	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u279	That is what you must accept. Instead of calling this anti-democratic bench, you must accept and respect the vote of 400 000 Portuguese and you must respect those Portuguese! [[Congrats from the CH.]] So you can't call us antidemocratic. I can't admit he's calling us antidemocratics, not me, not this bench! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u280	Let us now proceed to the reading of the dossier, to what I call the Secretary of the Bureau of Maria da Luz Rosinha. I thank all of you and all of you. Members who wish to exercise their right to leave in silence, so that we can hear Mr. Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u281	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, announce that they have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, Bills No. 294 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which falls to 10. the Commission, in connection with 8. the Commission, 296 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 303 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which drops to 8. the Commission, and 309 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, and draft resolutions Nos 231 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which falls to 4. the Commission, 232 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 8. The Commission, in connection with 5. the Commission, 233 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 1. the Commission, and 234 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which drops to 6. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-22.u282	This concludes this plenary session. The next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. and will be the Solemn Evocative Session of the Adoption of the Constitution of 1822, within the framework of the Commemorations of the Bicentennial of Constitutionalism Within the framework of the commemorations of this two hundredth anniversary, I also want to inform the House that tomorrow we will inaugurate a documentary exhibition and today, at 18 hours and 30 minutes, also within the same commemorations, we will have, in the Senate Hall, an evocative concert by João Domingos Bomtempo. See you tomorrow and very late. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 9 minutes.]]
