ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the plenary session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 3 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries to the public. Allow me to remind all the ladies and gentlemen. Members who are running elections to the following external bodies until 16 hours: Council of State ; Superior Council of National Defence ; Commission of Access to Administrative Documents ; Superior Council of Internal Security ; Presidency of the Economic and Social Council ; Higher Council of Information ; Board of Supervisors of the Information System of the Portuguese Republic ; Superior Council of the Magistrature ; Superior Council of the Public Ministry ; National Elections Commission ; Supreme Council of Cyberspace Security ; and a member of the Board of Supervisors of the Integrated Criminal Information System. I urge everyone to exercise their right to vote, and I repeat that until 16 hours today. The Secretary of Bureau Maria da Luz Rosinha will now proceed to the reading of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u2	Good morning to all of us. Mr. President and Mr. Members, you have entered the Bureau, and you have been admitted, Bill No. 59 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which drops to 1. the Commission. It's just, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary. We shall then proceed with the general discussion of the Bill No 4 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2022. For an intervention on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister for Finance, Fernando Medina.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We live times of demand, times that impose a clear view of the challenges, balance in solutions, firm determination to pursue the fundamental. In 2021, we recorded a growth of almost 5 % and the lowest unemployment rate of the last 18 years. The public debt has fallen most since World War II and the public deficit has declined to less than 3%.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u6	We have signs that we can legitimately expect the continuation of this dynamic along 2022. According to data from the INE ( National Institute of Statistics ) even today known, in the first quarter of this year, the economy grew to an impressive value of more than 11 %, in terms of counterparts, and 2, 6 % compared to the previous three months. This means that in the first quarter we are already 3, 1 % above the first quarter of 2019, recovering to pre-pandamy levels. This is a very strong message of confidence that workers and companies are giving us, this is a message that we have to be able to keep going. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But at the same time, the last few months have become visible and real new challenges we have to face. As a result of the slower recovery of the pandemic in various parts of the world and the invasion of Ukraine by Russia, major disturbances in the production and supply chains of many essential products continue to occur. Energy costs continue to rise, especially for gas and oil barrels, which is more than 50 % above the value of one year ago. In Portugal, energy inflation was 26, 7 % this month, dragging the monthly value to 7, 4 % according to the data also known today. Some central food chain goods have increased in price or are not produced in the quantity required. And the European Central Bank ( ECB ) has begun a new phase in monetary policy with the admission of a possible interest increase still this year. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us be clear: there is no government in the world, even in the most powerful countries, that can only eliminate the effect of the energy, food and geopolitical shocks we are facing, but, with the right policies, we can significantly mitigate their impacts, protecting the most affected groups and continuing on fundamental. This is what we do with the State budget for 2022: we mitigate the increases in energy prices, reducing its spread in the economy and directly supporting the most affected, but not contributing to additional inflationary pressures; we affirm the commitment, which is for the whole of the legislature, with the strengthening of family incomes, support for birth and younger people and the valuing of work in the public and private sectors; finally, we engage in public and private investment, in more qualified public services and a financial policy that supports us in the present, but above all, that protects us in the future. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With this Budget, we lower the tax burden on fuels, at 0, 20 € / l, relieving about half of the increase in costs for families and businesses.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u8	Two months late!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u9	at the same time, we limit gas prices, which will also contain future increases in electricity prices. We will grant direct subsidies to gas-intensive companies, passenger and freight transport companies and agri-food companies. And we add support to the most disadvantaged families, to bear costs with gas and food goods. In summary, we effectively support families and companies and avoid the mistakes of the past that would contribute to inflationary spirals and increases of incomes that would be merely illusory. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a budget that promotes investment, employment, income and values work. More than 170 000 families will be exempt from the payment of IRS (tax on income of natural persons) due to the rise of the minimum of existence to €9415, which will thus exceed the value of the national minimum wage. With this Budget, 2, 3 million pensioners, with pensions up to 1108 €, will benefit from an increase of at least 140 € to their annual income. And for each child or young person up to the age of 17, parents will receive a minimum of 600 € per year. The increase in income, which complements the increase in the national minimum wage, is not exhausted from the lower remuneration or social support. Strengthening will clearly benefit the middle classes. The break-up of the 3. it's 6. the IRS steps translate a tax relief to 1, 5 million families. Free daycare will begin in September and the younger ones will benefit from a reinforcement of the Youth IRS, which is extended to five years and extended to self-employed workers, while young couples see the increase in deduction from the second child.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u10	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u11	With this Budget, we also promote growth and investment. The Capitalisation and Resilience Fund, with a capital of up to EUR 1300 million, will help companies that have been affected by the pandemic and enable them to strengthen the capital of companies in the beginning of activity or in the process of growth and consolidation. The Fiscal Incentive for Recovery will allow a significant reduction in IRC (tax on the income of the public) for companies that decide to invest this year. And within the framework of the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ), we provide support for innovation, digitisation, qualification and decarbonisation, totalling EUR 900 million. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We assume to pursue a certain accounting policy, because this is an essential condition for improving the living conditions of our families and the financing of our companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u12	Like in the Lisbon Chamber! You're right! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u13	That is why we will reduce deficit and public debt in a year of economic growth and low unemployment. Less deficit and less debt are assets that the country cannot afford to exclude, in particular in a context of greater volatility in capital markets, from expectations of interest increases and uncertainty as to European budgetary rules. That is why, after achieving the greatest reduction in public debt since World War II, we now aim for a new objective: to withdraw Portugal from the list of the most indebted countries in Europe in a sustained and perennial manner. [[P.S.'s applause.]] To overcome this challenge is a factor of the greatest importance in strengthening trust and living conditions in the future. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a time of demand. We face a war at the door of the European Union, we face the growth of populism and radicalism and we face inflation, which threatens prosperity and well-being. This requirement only reinforces our determination in defining the right policies for the country. The urgency of the response to the situation does not diminish our determination and our focus on overcoming the strategic challenges facing Portugal. The State Budget proposal for 2022 translates political choices that protect the country in the present and invest in the future. This is the way to continue to advance, with determination and confidence, by Portugal, by the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u14	Mr Minister, the Bureau has registered, for requests for clarification, 15 Mr. Members, to whom I assume you respond in blocks of five. For the first request for clarification, Mr Duarte Pacheco, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u15	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Minister for Finance, began by saying that this budget is presented in a very special setting, in an environment that affects Europe and the world, but unfortunately it presents a budget that does not correspond and does not respond to the needs of this environment. This is the first fact. One of the direct consequences is inflation. Let me remind you of something in a digital newspaper, Socialist Action, quoted by Mr Prime Minister, on January 25, 2022 — it was not three or five years ago — it was three months ago, saying the following: « It is with the improvement of incomes of people who Portugal can achieve the strong and fair growth that it aspires to. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u16	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u17	Only one thing is words, another thing is facts. He therefore presents us with a budget for which he is the Minister of Finance himself, who seriously says: «I cannot say that people do not have the reduction of purchasing power, it would be wrong of me». Only three months have passed between your generic assertion that it will be all wonders and roses and the reality that the Minister of Finance here has confirmed us. Mr Prime Minister, Minister for Finance, inflation did not arise by surprise, we knew we were already experiencing an inflationary outbreak before the elections. Of course, it was later confirmed and the government advanced with a 4 % projection. However, Mr Minister, the INE is saying that in April it is already at 7%. So what we have is a real loss of Portuguese income with this Budget, contrary to Mr. Prime Minister's promise. And it is not only a loss for Portuguese, in general, it is in particular a loss for public servants,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u18	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u19	... although a growth of 0, 9 % is expected. So if there is nothing else, in the end, contrary to what the government had predicted, with an inflation of 4 %, in which people would lose half a wage, in practice, if inflation were to rise above it, people would already lose an entire wage. [[PSD applause.]] It is as if an additional fee withdraws the holiday allowance or the Christmas allowance to all public servants! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u20	Mr. Prime Minister said yesterday, and Mr. Minister for Finance repeated: « but the wage mass grows more, because there is progress in careers». All right. Are you saying, then, that all civil servants, DA to Z, are going to have career progression? Oh, my God! Is that what you're saying? Don't! Some may progress in their careers and, after all, instead of losing a wage, they may lose only half; others, those who do not have career progress, even lose a wage. This is the reality that this budget brings to public servants, pensioners and many Portuguese. And, therefore, Mr Minister for Finance, the question is very simple: is it maintained in his stubborn and rigidity of « this is what is, nothing moves, people lose purchasing power, patience» or is it available to make an update that corresponds to the recovery of purchasing power, in the face of inflation that the country is living? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u21	For a request for clarification, Mrs Vera Braz of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u22	Mr President, I welcome Mr Prime Minister, Mr Minister for Finance, the remaining Executive, the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. I begin by taking into account what has been the constant approach of the PSD, to which we have already been accustomed, by saying that this is a bad budget and that it does not respond to the country's needs and challenges, challenges such as productivity, competitiveness, economic growth, which increased seven times more between 2016 and 2019!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u23	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u24	But let me also remind you of an intervention by Mr Duarte Pacheco. At the last hearing of the Minister for Finance, we heard the honourable Member say that we had to respond to these challenges and then give social support. Then, Mr. Deputy? I do not know when that « after» would be for the PSD. for how many years, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u26	It is that for the Socialist Party this « after» has already begun in 2016, when we provide social support. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is not now, nor is it for a future that we do not know when it will be, Mr President. The gentlemen. PSD Members could wait, not the Portuguese! And that is why we have today a budget with the greatest social investment ever. But, returning to productivity and competitiveness, we believe that our business fabric has even a central role in the recovery of the country and the challenges that have been mentioned here. The gentlemen. PSD Members need to believe a little more in our companies, in their resilience, in their ability to reinvent themselves,... [[That's it!]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u27	...to innovate and contribute to the competitiveness of the country. The PS bench and this government believe. That is why we have presented those measures in support of the pandemic, and that is why we have today, in this Budget, measures that are going to meet the mitigation of geopolitical shock, some of which are directed especially to the most affected sectors. That is also why we have measures that continue to bet on the capitalisation, investment and innovation of our companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u28	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u29	It's just that we believe and support our companies. Mr Minister, so that there is no doubt, and we already know that we want to be in the front platoon, as mentioned yesterday by Mr Prime Minister, the question that I leave to you is the following: are we, or are we not, facing a budget that continues to move forward in this direction, which aims to support our companies, and to have as a strategic objective the productive capacity of our business fabric and the leverage of our economy? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u30	For a request for clarification on behalf of the Left Block, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u31	Mr President, Minister, there is a government minister who allows a salary cut of more than 3% to public servants and says he does so out of caution. This minister, to justify prudence, claims the centrality of public debt and does not hesitate to summon the devil to any future crisis. My question to you, Minister, is this: which party does this minister belong to? Take a good look at your speech, Minister. On the contrary: the budgetary rules are not in force, but the deficit needs to be reduced further, in the name of a crisis that must come, even if this is detrimental to economic growth today; the lack of professionals is grueling, starting with education and health, but structural expenditure cannot increase; inflation comes from the side of supply, but it must contain wages to avoid a spiral of prices. Your arguments, Minister, are the right arguments. And I did not even wonder that on a day of greater enthusiasm, Minister Fernando Medina would let an "we cannot live beyond our possibilities" because, in essence, that is what he thinks and that is what is in this Budget, which has as its sole escapement the funds of the PRR. That's why the right gets stuck and skates. The PSD, which is the moral father of prudence, has no discourse and therefore goes to the IL, to an empty discourse on competitiveness and growth, which has only one advantage: reducing all public policies to the low of taxes, obviously without ever saying how it would finance, then, the teacher-check, the check-check-medical, the check-surgery, finally, the great passerby of checks in which the Portuguese State would make it. It is a shame that when, in fact, there is a need for caution, and when we look at this budget, the government is so wide: the tax system for non-residents costs 900 million per year, eight times the health investments in 2022 — structural investments — and more than five times the net increase in public service salaries; the seal tax that EDP (Energy of Portugal) has not yet paid, of EUR 110 million, is less than the fall of the IRS steps; the fallen profits from the sky of the large companies are affected; and there are always 138 million for the New Bank, through deferred tax assets. Minister, caution would have been to invest in the fixing of doctors and nurses before a pandemic hit the SNS (National Health Service ). Prudence would have been to stop visasgold, tax benefits, incentives to real estate speculation, which now leave families and businesses on the edge of a nerve attack, fearing that interest rates might rise. Prudence would have been to change the labour law, which is now pushing the average wage close to the minimum wage. Prudence would have been to change and cut energy revenues, which now push up energy prices. None of this has been done! And the Minister can now say that delaying public service reforms and that impoverishing those who depend on wages, benefits or pensions paid by the State is prudent. On the left, Mr Minister, your caution sounds even at the time of those other gentlemen. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u32	For a request for clarification, Mr Rui Afonso has now given the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u33	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members, Minister of Finance, from 2008 to 2021, the State has already spent more than EUR 30 billion on bankrupt banks. And now, in 2022, we will spend more 294 million euros. We are talking of EUR 177 million for the vehicle companies of BANIF ( Banco Internacional do Funchal ), plus EUR 117 million for the vehicle companies of BPN ( Banco Inglés de Neglés ) — BANIF Imobiliária, Oitante, WIL - Tourism projects, Participants, Parups and Parvalorem. These vehicle companies were created in order to manage the so-called "toxic assets" of the bankrupt banks in order to effectively mitigate the losses of the State. If, initially, it was expected that, finally, these societies would have a bit of a useful life, the truth is that some of them already have more than 10 years of existence, consuming more money each year than they spend on taxpayers. We stress the fact that all these societies are fully constituted with their social bodies, their official auditors' societies and a whole administrative and operational structure for the same purposes. At the end of last year, we saw a proposal for a merger of Parvalorem and Parups companies. What we propose is that this movement of aggregation of toxic assets be concentrated in one entity, with a view to better efficiency in asset management and a decrease in the cost structure associated with the management of the entities concerned. So instead of having six boards of directors, we would have only one; instead of having six official auditors, we would have only one; the same would happen to the entire administrative area and the entire operational area. Mr. Minister of Finance, if you really want to have the right accounts and to reduce the deficit, you do not have to apply the well-known revenue of the covert austerity, in which you make salary updates or increases of 10 €, which are lower than the inflation rate we all know, you can start by reducing the expenditure, better managing the resources of the State. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u34	Mr Rodrigo Saraiva, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u35	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister for Finance, I will ask questions about a topic which you referred to in your speech, but before that, I begin by thanking you for your recognition when you said that, and I quote, 'Portugal is one of the most indebted countries in Europe'. It was Mr Minister who said it, finally recognizing what other parties have come to alert and that the government is trying to deny. We are talking about the PRR, and I am helping myself with the latest information available on the official website of 20 April, the framework with the official information on the operational status point of approvals and payments of the PRR. Between the funds approved and paid, of course, I would like to acknowledge the fact that the lowest disparity of the funds paid is in the family line. This recognition is made, even if only 9 % of the total. But looking at the picture and at this information, when we start to see the headings, the value paid to the IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity), right now at this time, is zero and to the companies arrived at the stupendous €100 000, which is less — this only to try to compare — than what the Government, in the previous legislature, spent, for example, in fact, on food and candy in the Presidency of the European Union. In order to have another dimension, the value that has come to companies today, the real economy, is 0, 02 % of the total value, which means that the other items are worth 5000 times more. Therefore, as of today, possibly the one that is the great contribution of the bazouca to the companies served to a factory buy a machine or some company buy a truck TIR (international road transport). This is the big contribution that is being made today. And why this contribution? Because it is the result of a policy taken by the Government and the Prime Minister to allocate, by looking at these European values, these European moneys, to the European bazaar, as it has been called, 70 % of the public sector money, as if it were the public sector that had the solution for the country to grow economically and be richer. Mr Minister, I am going to ask you a question because when Mr Prime Minister took 70 % for the public sector, he said « don't worry, then the money will come to the real economy, for acquisitions, for service contracts, that value will reach the companies ». We are going to want to believe this and, therefore, the question that I ask you about the values paid today is the following: of the 438 million that went to the public sector — which is the aggregate value for public entities, public companies, authorities and schools — how much of this value has already reached the real economy? Can the Minister and the Government give this information to the Portuguese?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u36	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u37	If you go to the public sector, how much has it reached the real economy, businesses, families, people? [[Protests by the Minister of Infrastructure and Housing, Pedro Nuno Santos.]] Minister Pedro Nuno Santos, you will then have your time. We'll be there. I also ask, and not only today, if you can make a forecast of the value channeled through the public sector which, at the end of all this, will reach the real economy, businesses, people, families. With this, two very different views of taxpayer money management are very clear: on the one hand, the view of those who believe that companies should have the freedom to make their choices; on the other hand, someone in this case the PS Government, who believes that companies should be on their knees waiting for the goodness of the state. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u38	Mr. Rodrigo Saraiva said nothing! Nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u39	Mr Minister, let me ask you another question, and I would like to talk about the ISCTE (Instituto Universitário de Lisboa ), but not about the recent topic involving former Minister João León,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u40	Well? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u41	... because we realize your discomfort, when the topic was addressed here, I think everyone, including the PS itself, should be uncomfortable with the topic.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u42	But ask!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u43	It is that the joke on this issue is such that the Socialist Party has prevented the coming to the Assembly of the Republic of the only person who could make the counterpoint to former Minister João León, who was former Minister Manuel Heitor. But no! What the Socialist Party wants is that ex-Minister John Leon and the Rector of the ISCTE come here, and we will all, of course, be surprised, for they will pass the same narrative here and nothing to clarify. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] On the ISCTE — and you realize that you are beginning to see the discomfort, because the ISCTE is certainly more than just a nursery for the Socialist Party machine, and I am not going to talk about a direct adjustment that goes there above 300 000 € of a public entity, in which direction everyone has links to the ISCTE — what I am concerned is that, at this moment, there is a public institution and, therefore, its professionals and students, the old and the present, who see their credibility and their reputation put at stake. This concern is evident in an opinion paper published yesterday in the Public Journal by several ISCTE teachers, including Prof. André Freire and Prof. Maria do Rosário Veiga, and therefore it is not surprising that someone asks about the ISCTE, cannot be surprised. But, Mr Minister, in the face of all that you know, and what you already know, what level of confidence can the Portuguese have in some government-made service contracts, and by entities that respond directly to the government, with the ISCTE? I will give you two concrete examples, one of which already comes from the previous legislation and is related to the monitoring of speech and propaganda on social networks. What confidence can we have in the results of this study? The other example has to do with an invitation made recently, at the end of January, it was not so long ago by the POAT 2020 (Operational Programme of Technical Assistance), which commissioned a study to the ISCTE — let us see only! — on fraud in the structural funds in Portugal. So, in the face of everything we have talked about — Mr Minister, in his speech, and I, in these requests for clarification, what confidence can we have in the management of European funds? [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u44	To respond to this first group of requests for clarification, Mr President-in-Office of the Council has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank the requests for clarification and allow me to welcome Mr Duarte Pacheco and respond very directly to him. Mr President, do you not even notice in the irony that you are coming here to this Parliament to address the government's bench and question the valuation of wages or the lack of value for wages and the purchasing power of Portuguese? Mr President, in view of the situation we are living in, if we imagine a worker named Duarte who comes, for example, from the south bank, every day, working for Lisbon, we realize that today benefits from a Navigator social pass, with the value of 30 €,... [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u46	... not subject, in fact, to the increase in fuel values, but that would not exist if the PSD had been government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member speaks of the recovery of purchasing power, but the fact is that the same worker, the Public Administration or the private sector, will benefit from this Budget of the collapse of the steps of the IRS; if he has children, he will benefit from the increase in the deduction from the second child; if he has a small child, he may even benefit from the daycare free process. But do you know what's remarkable, Mr? It is that, if the PSD were government at this time, none of this would have this worker, because the IRS and its reduction were a mirage, were shot at 2025 or 2026, if and when that happened. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u47	It was the PSD's will! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u48	Mr President, this did not happen many months ago, it was the PSD political programme that was rejected by the Portuguese in the legislative elections, in the recent legislative elections. I do not invoke other times, of bad memory, but of recent times. The truth is that at the PSD, on the initiative of the PSD, there would be no fundamental support for the incomes of the most disadvantaged families in the middle class.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u49	Oh, yes! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u50	In fact, let me stress this very important point of low-income families, which are those who have deserved, by the previous government and this government, in this budget and certainly in the future a very particular attention, because they need, because it is a question of social justice, but also, of course, because they are the most affected in this situation. Mr President, while the PSD does not blame its policy on the national minimum wage, it has no authority to talk to us about income recovery. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Allow me, Mr President, to continue, because in this State budget we have a set of measures aimed at supporting the real income of families, on two fundamental ways: the first is to be more effective in curbing the increase in costs that families feel, in particular in energy products. The proposal we have in this budget on the reduction of €0, €20 in the ISP (charge on oil and energy products) will allow you, Mr President, to take note! — the reduction of 50% of the increase that families would feel if we did not have this measure. And when we continue to shut down the electricity market gas market, it is to prevent future contamination at rising electricity prices, which are already reaching many European countries. And yes, these results are also possible, because, many years ago, the Socialist Party defended, in fact, against the PSD, a strong policy of renewables, that we are all benefiting today. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Vera Braz, I thank you for your comments and your question regarding the size of the investment and I think that today that word is the most important. It is that the results we have had from GDP (gross domestic product) in the first quarter are a very clear message that companies and workers are giving to the country, and also to this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]] GDP grew, in homologous terms, almost 12 %, in a chain variation, even without parallel, of 2, 6 %, making in the first quarter we are already 3, 1 % above the first quarter of 2019 above pre-pandemic values. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is with regard to this effort that we invest in qualification, that we bet on investment, capitalisation of companies, through the instruments I have described. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who concludes this first round of replies with a direct reply to Mrs Mariana Mortágua. Madam Member, we are well aware of what we are doing, from the point of view of policies in the protection of income, in the protection of those who live from the income of their work, in the most effective way in a difficult context. But there is a reality that will always separate us and what separates us in a very marked way is called the same reality. It is that the honourable Member can always live and argue in the political debate that we live in a world without deficit and without debt, that none of this matters, because none of this matters. I know that all those who are listening to us at home will be even surprised when they hear it on this matter, because each Portuguese realizes that their debt is a problem you have to manage.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u51	There it is! The state is the same as the family! Do you hear yourself? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u52	Therefore, Mrs. Member, I would like to overcome here the great difference with the bench of the Left Block. It is indeed remarkable that the recklessness of the party is surprising, because when 12 countries of the European Union, of the euro zone, are already with a deficit of less than 3 %,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u53	So are we!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u54	... the Left Block presents a proposal to increase the public deficit in 2022, in view of what we had in 2021. No, Mrs. Member, we do not walk on the path of recklessness, we have to walk steadily towards reducing public debt, because that is what will protect the income of families and the investment capacity of companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u55	PSD wouldn't do better!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u56	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have moved on to the second group of requests for clarification, and Mr Bruno Dias has the floor on behalf of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister of Finance, on this budget, have already had the opportunity to alert us to the undisturbed problems faced by the country and that the Government has chosen to leave without response, placing above all, as it has now done, the trajectory of the deficit and the indicators that count, not for Portuguese workers, but for the European Commission. Yesterday, Mr Prime Minister came to unearth the cavaquist doctrine of the ‘front platoon’, we were informed of what the country can expect with this absolute majority, but there are two concrete issues that we bring to Mr Minister, on public investment and on fiscal policy. On the one hand, as regards the crucial importance of public investment in quality, promoting private investment, ensuring national incorporation, we have this discussion for many years and it is not useful to repeat arguments. Over the years, the Government increasingly relegates the basis of public investment to the Community funds and, in this case, now to the Recovery and Resilience Plan. And the idea of the PRR as a lifeline is an achievement, the PRR is the anticipation of future revenues that the country will lose later. So I ask you: is the Minister convinced that this level of national funding, at the level of indigent public investment, the answer that the country needs to meet today's needs? On the other hand, the question of tax policy options. Mr Minister, the announcement of the end of the CFP (special payment on account) in this Budget is not, we agreed, great novelty, for the simple reason that for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, where the problem was truly meaningful, the CFP had already been eliminated, with the proposal and the fight for many years of the CFP. But as for the profits of large businesses and large economic groups, in particular in the sectors that have been making profits to millions with people's sacrifices, what balance does it make of leaving these scandalous advantages unaffected, not only speculative practices, in the use of war and sanctions, as is the case with oil, but also those who have won the pandemic crisis, such as insurers? Rather than launching inconsequential reflections, should they not first follow the concrete proposals that the CFP has already put forward, and that the Government has ignored in October the taxation of these profits? Or are government revenue and fiscal justice no longer a concern here? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u58	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u59	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, Dear and Dear colleagues, Minister for Finance, recently told us, and I noted, that there is no government in the world that can eliminate the pressures of geopolitical, energy shocks, and out there, what can be done is mitigate. This is our point of agreement, that is, we cannot change what is happening in the world out there, what can be mitigated by its consequences, and I think that this is the great discussion to be made about this Budget and what has not yet been fully clarified. Between the 1, 9 deficits that the Government wants to achieve and the 3, 2 which alleges that the Left Block wants to achieve, and that in fact they would rule out the European Union deficit, even before they are reintroduced, there is a world of options and perhaps this world of options that are not relevant to either one or another, but that is what I want to talk about. Why not keep the deficit clearly below the European limits, because it does not use the strike thus created to mitigate the consequences, but mitigate them in a more vigorous way and, therefore, protecting the most vulnerable who suffer from inflation — which is increasing more than what the European Central Bank itself envisaged — and because it does not, therefore, manage the deficit and debt that, in the medium and long term, is healthier, making now the investments that allow people to be less dependent on fossil fuels, such as, for example, investments in energy, in our homes, in public transport, thus curing us of this dependence which is geopolitical, energy and which weighs on the Portuguese pocket? Then I would also like to give you an opportunity to clarify something that was not quite clear in our last debate, which is, after all, the position of the Portuguese Government on the reintroduction of the deficit rules. We have a passive position or, clearly, in May, before the European Commission, will we defend that they must remain suspended, because following the pandemic came the war and now is not the time to re-implement those rules that Mario Monti and others said were already stupid in the era of normality and even more so when we are in an era of geopolitical uncertainty on the European continent?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u60	Mr Ivan Gonçalves, from the PS, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, last 24 February, the world woke up in shock with the invasion of Ukraine by the Russian Federation, and this war, in fact, changed our world and changed how Europe relates, too, to its partners. Portugal and Europe have done their best, we have been supportive of the Ukrainian people, we have imposed economic barriers to transactions with the Russian Federation, which has had an impact on the price of raw materials. All of this is in addition, as has already been said, to the pandemic crisis, which has not yet been completed, and to the economic and social effects that are still felt. It is good to see that the price of gas is 10 times more expensive than it was a year ago and that the price of oil is now twice as high as it was a year ago. Therefore, in view of this scenario, the response that the Portuguese Government has given, and which gives in this Budget, is the answer that is required: containing inflation, protecting income and ensuring the sustainability of public accounts. Of course, with support for agricultural production, with the exemption from VAT (added value tax) for the purchase of fertilizers and rations; with the suspension of the increase in the carbon rate, which was planned for the beginning of this year; and with the reduction in the ISP, which Mr Minister has already referred to — the first bill to be adopted in the Council of Ministers in this Parliament — and which translates into a saving of €0, €20 per litre, each time we fill the fuel deposits. Therefore, these efforts demonstrate the Government's commitment to mitigating the effects of war on our economy. Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, during this debate yesterday and today, we have heard everything from the opposition. The right has already accused the Socialist Party of being in the clutches of Marxism. The left to our left accuses us of being benefiting the big capital and the big families. Now, the Socialist Party and its government are exactly where they have to be next to the companies, alongside the families, alongside those who produce wealth, so as not to leave anyone behind, in this is the crisis of our lives. So what I ask you to do, Minister, is you can explain a little more the measures that the Government has to mitigate the effects of the geopolitical crisis that Portugal and Europe are facing today and how we can bring Portugal back to growing, as it is already happening right now and how the data that will be disseminated today by INE. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u62	You now have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mr Joaquim Miranda Sarmento, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u63	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for Finance, this is not a budget of the right accounts. Just look at what UTAO ( Technical Unit for Budgetary Support) and the Public Finance Council say. The Council on Public Finance has come to say that the structural deficit is worsening and that the primary structural balance is reduced. UTAO has already said that this budget in nothing contributes to correcting the structural imbalances of public finances. In fact, how does the nominal deficit go down? It is reduced by two factors: a brutal increase in tax revenues and the withdrawal of COVID measures. It even recalls the fiscal consolidation between 2016 and 2019, in which they reduced 3 % of the deficit — the previous government had reduced 6 %. It is that if we add up the reduction of interest and the dividends and IRC of the Banco de Portugal, the result of the expansionist monetary policy of the European Central Bank, plus the increase in the tax burden, plus the reduction of investment, we have 2, 5 % of the 3% of the deficit reduction. The second point I wanted to talk to you about is austerity, a mantra the Socialist Party uses, and yesterday they brought the 2013 Budget to debate. It was a shame they didn't bring 2011! Open... [[PSD applause.]] But I remember - because you were the Secretary of State of that government, the Minister for Foreign Affairs was the Secretary of State of that government and the Prime Minister was the party's number two. in this period, between May 2010 and May 2011, it was the PEC ( Stability and Growth Programme ) 2, with the increase of the three VAT rates, the increase of the IRS and the very strong reduction of the family allowance. It was government the Socialist Party! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u64	Who made PEC 2 and PEC 3 viable? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u65	In October 2010, with the so-called PEC 3 in the 2011 budget, which could have brought to the debate, increased 2 points in the normal VAT rate, increased the IRS and cut the salaries of public servants between 3, 5 % and 10 %. [[PSD applause.]] It was your government that cut the salaries of civil servants! Then, in March 2011, in the famous PEC 4 — followed by the Memorandum of Understanding — they wanted to cut off pensions. [[PS protests.]] Yes, the Government had in its programme and signed an agreement, the so-called Memorandum of Understanding on page 3, point 1.11, for a cut in pensions between 3, 5 % and 10 %! [[PSD applause.]] In addition to the increase in IRS and an increase of EUR 400 million in the contributions of civil servants to ADSE ( Institute for Health Protection and Assistance ).
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u66	Do you remember Dr. Catroga's cell phone? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u67	Oh, my lord! Open... So in one year they applied 10 billion austerity. What was the final result? They brought the troika. The PSD has sent the troika away! The father of austerity—and that is why you talk so much about austerity—is the Socialist Party! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u68	Yeah, yeah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u69	And the PSD is the mother!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u70	The third point I wanted to talk about is economic growth. And no, economists, when they look structurally at an economy—there is the PS parliamentary leader, who is a doctorate in management and knows this— look at the long series.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u71	It's not management, it's economy!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u72	But if we want to look at four years, let's look at the next four years. In the countries of cohesion — those with which Portugal compares, which are at the same level of development, with which Portugal competes in the sale of goods and services and in the attraction of investment, those who were all poorer than Portugal 2026, and eight of them will be richer than Portugal in 2026, of which six have surpassed us during your governments, but he said in the cohesion countries in the next four years, Portugal is 2. the least grows.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u73	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u74	The fourth, and last, point I wanted to talk to you about, before you ask the question, is that this is the Budget of the loss of purchasing power, and you admitted it on Tuesday afternoon. The government gives a little bit of a hand, but it takes a lot between inflation, not updating the steps and increasing public servants by 0, 9 %, when we already know that last year's inflation was 1, 3 %. So I would like to ask you one question: you say inflation is transient. All right, let's accept that fact. If this year's tax revenue is transitional, as the Council of Public Finance says, it will be strongly influenced by this transitional inflation. If, at the end of the year, the tax revenue—and only the tax, not the contribution— goes beyond what is envisaged in the Budget, in national accounts, which is EUR 59, EUR 8 billion, what will you do to that revenue than charge the Portuguese more? [[PSD applause.]] What will you do to this recipe that inflation will bring to the Portuguese? Are you going to have less deficit or will you return to families, especially those with lower incomes, which are the ones who suffer most from inflation, which is a hidden but highly regressive tax? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u75	For a request for clarification, Mr Rui Rocha, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u76	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to record — and I hope that it is not something deliberate, but just a coincidence — that once again a question from this Parliamentary bench was left unanswered. I assume that Mr Minister will respond and that eventually he will be waiting for ISCTE data to be able to do so. The second note has to do with what we have seen. We have seen a permanent debate between PSD and PS banks as to whom it is most « austerity ». I would say that it means that we need, in fact, new parties, more forcefully, that make Portugal grow and that we are not constantly being dragged into this sterile debate about the past. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u77	Cheerful dinner!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u78	By continuing, Mr Minister, I would also like to mention — Rodrigo Saraiva has already done so — that it does not stop being extraordinary that, when he points out that Portugal has one of the biggest debts in the world, the PS bench applauds. I would like to understand who brought us here, who are responsible for having this 12. the highest debt in the world. Finally, in such a non-response trend yesterday, I had the opportunity to ask the Prime Minister for data on the Return Programme, which the Government has used as its flag. I will therefore have to insist on and ask Minister Fernando Medina how many Portuguese have benefited from a candidacy in the framework of the Return Programme between 2019 and 2022. To get an idea of this flag, I wonder how much it is worth exactly and how many Portuguese people have returned because of it. Mr. Miguel Costa Matos, yesterday, referring to this bench, spoke of liberal illusionism. We have some qualities, we have some self-esteem, illusionism is not, in fact, one of them. The great illusionist is in this Chamber, but he is Mr. Prime Minister, because the money enters the Portuguese purse and Mr. Prime Minister makes him disappear quickly through taxes. [[Applause from the IL.]] In view of the actual numbers of the Return Programme, I believe that we will also be faced with another maneuver of illusionism and pure propaganda. So I ask you, Minister: how many Portuguese have seen your candidacy approved? [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u79	Mr Sérgio Ávila, from the PS, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u80	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of Finance, one of the main assets of the Socialist Party Government was undoubtedly the real growth of wages. In fact, in the period 2015 to 2022, the minimum wage in real terms increased by 29 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u81	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u82	The average wage, in real terms, grew 11 %. The real growth of wages is undoubtedly an indelible mark of the Socialist Party's development project, realized over these years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This mark, this trajectory, this path, now has a new challenge: the challenge of inflation. An inflation which is considered by all a conjuncural inflation, which comes from supply, and a temporary inflation, according to not what the Socialist Party says, not what the Government says, but with what still this week has been recognized and reaffirmed by the International Monetary Fund ( IMF ),... [[Congrats from PS MP Jamila Madeira.]] ...and therefore based on international decisions of the most important and credible institutions and not on national political options or views. In view of this reality, action must be taken on the origin of the problem in order to face this challenge. The source of the problem is supply, which is why measures are created: first measure, mitigating energy prices; second measure, supporting the costs of companies which have the most dependence on the energy factor and the sectors most affected by this situation, such as agriculture and fisheries; and third measure supporting the most vulnerable families. Since it is a conjuncural and temporary situation, it is acting precisely on the supply and reducing these dependencies that adjust the price. Wrong, duly wrong, is to act through the structural increase in public expenditure, using public debt.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u83	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u84	It's double wrong! Firstly, it is wrong because, being the problem in supply and being a short-term and conjuncural problem, if we stimulate demand through structural public expenditure, we are rebalancing prices at the higher level and we are going to turn a matter that is temporary into a permanent issue. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is the biggest mistake of this policy and these proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u85	Prices won't come down!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u86	The second, and most importantly, mistake is to do so with the increase in public debt. Here we have to clarify the following: deficit and public debt are not a political fetish, they are not objectives to have a medal or a picture on the wall. It is an effective need of the country, for its future and for its sustainability. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We will make a very simple account: Portuguese public debt, grossly, is EUR 290 billion. It has a maturity of 7, 4 years, which means that on average 40 billion public debt will need to be refinanced each year. The increase of 1 percentage point of the interest rate, as is expected from the second half of this year, for an average refinancing requirement of EUR 40 billion, represents an increase of EUR 400 million per year for the State, per percentage point. So let me say that, in addition to these questions, it is indeed left-wing, truly left-wing, the objective of reducing the deficit and reducing the public debt. The option is very clear, ladies and gentlemen: whether we want to spend EUR 400 million on transfers to international financial markets or whether we want to spend EUR 400 million on health support, education support, public investment support. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is extraordinary that in the past, those who have devilified international financial markets are now defending options that, in practice, represent withdrawing resources from health, education, state, public investment, to place them in international financial markets.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u87	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u88	This is the real reality of the analysis of these proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u89	That's what the PSD said!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u90	In conclusion, what I'm trying to say is that, as this is a conjuncural and temporary problem, solving it with measures that will be structural and permanent is the same thing as trying to extinguish fire with gasoline. in this context, Prime Minister, I ask you: what is the most effective and sustainable way to ensure, realistically, the future of our country, maintaining the trajectory we had, and have, of increasing the minimum and average real wages? That is, essentially, doing so with sustainability, so that what today may be an apparent benefit does not become, tomorrow, an added problem and cost. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u91	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, will certainly understand our stupefaction with the obsession of the deficit when in October last year this Government intended to reduce it by less than 7% than it has now proposed. Although we finally welcome — even through dialogue with political forces such as the NAP — the Government has agreed to revise the steps of the IRS, this is still very little to the way that we have to do to relieve families and businesses, especially when the socio-economic crisis is joined by a war crisis, by Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Mr Minister, I would like to ask you very specific questions on two topics which are generally outside these debates, and I begin with animal protection. In our country, animal VAT, i.e. the VAT of veterinary services, continues at 23 %. What a strange country this country in which a tourist, someone who has as an activity torturing an animal, is exempt from VAT payment,... [[CH protests.]] ...but a veterinarian, someone who provides services to take care of and save lives, still has to charge this service at 23%. More: animal protection associations, which replace the State, do not have direct support other than those which have been provided for in the State budget and continue to have to support rations and veterinary services at 23 %. This, when they replace the State by welcoming so many and so many animals in this country—the task that is precisely the responsibility of the State. If you think you may be extrapolating with my words, you have Mr. Prime Minister, who knows this reality well through the House of Animals of Lisbon, as well as his banking colleague, the current Minister of the Environment, who also knows this reality and well knows the debt the Portuguese State has towards animal protection associations. So the question I put to you, Minister, is this: is your Government available to follow the NAP proposal, so that, finally, the VAT of veterinary services will fall to 6 %, but also so that animal protection associations can deduct the costs they have with VAT and thus obtain their refund by relieving the burden imposed on them? The second question that I cannot but put to you is about gender equality. We live in a country — and in a world, justice is done, because this is not exclusive of Portugal — where: women are still systematically relegated to family life; we still have to wait for more than 41 years for equal wages and equal functions to be, in fact, an independent brand of gender and for the cessation of discrimination between men and women; parental leave is, above all, imposed on women and not men; women continue to have no effective answers, from the point of view of combating violence, covering the entire national territory. So, Mr Minister, I ask you: is it available to follow a proposal that the NAP will present in order to benefit, from the fiscal point of view, companies that respect gender quotas in their executive positions, so that a woman who has the same job as a man, in particular in leadership positions, can finally see their value recognised, also from the wage point of view? On the other hand, I ask: when will the measures planned for shelters to be adapted to accommodate victims who also have pets, and, of course, to extend the national network of the Júlia and Casa da Maria Space, projects to support victims of domestic violence?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u93	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Bernardo Blanco, of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u94	Mr President, Minister for Finance, my question is very simple : where is the new Information System of the State Organization ( SIOE )? In the 2016 Budget report, the Government undertook to make a major public administration census. In 2018, former Minister Mário Centeno said : « The competition has already been completed and the objective is that during the year 2019, we align the collection of information in this database ». Also in 2018, an audit of the General Financial Inspection said : « The data collected by the System are insufficient and do not adequately characterize the Public Administration. They do not allow to know the number of public servants, their salaries, hours worked, assessments and qualifications. Do not keep on seeking. ” In 2019, three years after the promise of the Government, there was still nothing and Minister Alexandra Leitão had the aim, and I quote, to « make a great in-depth survey in the Information System of the State Organization ». In the 2019 activity report, the Directorate-General for Administration and Public Employment said that the new system was still developing, and therefore there was no collection of quality data.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u95	Unbelievable!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u96	In the 2020 report it was said: « The implementation of these indicators has been impaired by the fact that the new IT application of the SIOE has not been completed and made available in 2020. » Five years have passed since the government's promise! Given that we are in 2022 and there is still no 2021 activity report, the question I am asking is basically this: how does the Government intend to organize a state without data on it in condition? Do you rule by achiism? Question : Will it be this time? What's it gonna be?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u97	Now it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u98	Will we have the new system in 2022, six years from the government's promise? [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u99	To request clarification, Mr Miguel Iglesias of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u100	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, members of the Government, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the pandemic crisis which in 2020 reduced the gross domestic product by 8, 4 % — the biggest economic contraction since 1954 — the fact is that the government has been responding, and well, to this colossal challenge. The results are factual, either before or after the worst phase of the pandemic, as indeed has already been exemplified by the Minister of Finance with recent GDP growth data, both in chain and in homologous terms, compared to 2021. We have already reduced the unemployment rate to 5, 8 % — below the European average — in February, we increased the minimum wage by 40 % between 2015 and 2022, and the average available income of families increased by 16 % between 2015 and 2020. Portugal grew more in four years, between 2016 and 2019, than in the previous 15 years and made it with certain and credible public accounts. I assumed that would make some of the PSD Members who spoke out in shame. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is worth having a sustainable public finance policy so that it is possible to improve family incomes, create jobs and opportunities for young people and improve the lives of pensioners. It is worth having a strict public finance policy to support businesses and the economy. In 2021, we had the investment record contracted in Portugal : EUR 2, EUR 7 billion. It was also twice the value of 2019. It is worth having a credible public finance policy, enabling us to be quick to start the RPP investments, which will be decisive in the coming years. Having said that, Mr Minister for Finance, as in recent days in this plenary, much has been said about convergence, asked Mr Ex. what his outlook and forecasts for the resumption of convergence with the European Union, given that before the pandemic—in 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019—we converge, with the highest positive change in real GDP growth rate since we joined the single currency. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u101	Finally, to ask the Minister for Finance for clarification, Mr Hugo Pires of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u102	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, one of the greatest designs the world is facing is to achieve climate balance. In recent years, Portugal has been at the forefront of the process of decarbonization and proud of having been the first country worldwide to make the commitment to achieve carbon neutrality in 2050. We are also proud that, in the past Parliament, we have adopted the Climate Basics Act, despite the vote against the Liberal Initiative, which brings the ambition of a rapidly and socially balanced transition to a sustainable economy. Leaving a decent and habitable country for future generations is an obligation for all of us, as political leaders, to demand ambition and responsibility on our part and also a strong public and private investment. Once again, the Government of the Socialist Party has not missed the call and it is with pride that we can say that this is the State Budget with the greatest investment ever in environmental policies and climate action. If there were any doubts that this is the way that should be followed, it was only to look at what is happening around us to realize that the bet on renewable energies, for example, in addition to contributing to the process of decarbonization, also contributes to our energy security and sovereignty. Mr Minister, we have had the opportunity to read in the newspapers this week that Portugal and Spain, because they have a high incorporation of renewables into their electricity grid and because they are less dependent on fossil fuels, in particular natural gas, have reached an agreement in Brussels to reduce the electricity bill in the next 12 months. I would like to give us more information on this agreement, which is so important for Portuguese businesses and families. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u103	In reply, Mr. Minister for Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. Joaquim Miranda Sarmento, did not overlook anyone in this Chamber who has now decided to start the debate on the State budgets of 2010 and 2011.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u105	That's all you guys talk about!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u106	It was more than a decade ago! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Yes, and did it with great applause from the PSD bench. It was with a huge applause and motivation of the PSD bench. I will draw a reason for this: Mr President, you want to do the 2010 and 2011 debates because you cannot do the 2022 debate! I repeat, you cannot do the debate in 2022. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u107	How many days have you been talking about it? There's got to be a can!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u108	But, Mr, I understand why you cannot do the 2022 debate. It is because you know that we know and that all Portuguese remember that, not many months ago, you were on television criticizing the Government of the Republic for increasing the national minimum wage. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member was against the increase in the national minimum wage.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u109	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u110	Mr President, do not say no, because soon you will be circulating videos with your statements, in this regard, in the interview. Then his leader realized that he might have put him in a bad situation and came up with a round formula, saying "we're not going to increase". But all Portuguese understood the way in which the honourable Member referred to the increase in the national minimum wage: it was against. The additional reason for the difficulty that you have in this debate is that you have been responsible for the PSD Election Programme, which has defined that the IRS should be the last of the priorities to be faced in the country's governance. That is why we have arrived here with this crisis and in the situation we are experiencing, when the main policies for the return of income are precisely in matters of a fiscal nature, such as the break-up of the steps, the rise of the minimum of existence or the increase of the bonus for the second child, at the will of the honourable Member nothing would happen. In fact, all of this would have the vote against the honourable Member, as it had when it came to the lead of the State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u111	I wasn't a member!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u112	No, but we know what you think. In fact, you haven't been hiding—and well! — what you think, but your opinions and guidelines also deserve political debate in this House, and that is what I am doing. [[P.S.'s applause and laughter.]] Mr President, there would have been no decreases in IRS that we are making or increases in the national minimum wage. Mr President, let me tell you this: there is no doctorate who gives someone knowledge of the country, of the people, of the reality of those who work, of those who suffer most, of those who are most affected. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There is no doctorate that gives cohesion values so that we can move forward together. Mr President, there are two additional points to which I would still like to answer. First, he asked what we are going to do with the increase in the tax revenue we will have during this year, but the answer is in the Budget. [[PSD MP Protests Joaquim Miranda Sarmento.]] This budget is part of a growth in tax revenue which is EUR 2000 million above what was registered in October.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u113	No, it's not upstairs!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u114	If we withdraw from this effect the IRS, which is growing in terms of employment and wage valuations, which, moreover, deny that they are happening in the private sector, we have an increase, limited to VAT, of about EUR 1300 million, which is reflected in the budget maps. Repeat: EUR 1300 million of additional VAT revenue. The honourable Member asked what we are going to do with this additional, and I say: we are already doing it! If you notice, the specific measures introduced in this Budget, which did not appear in October, are precisely in support of families and businesses, to mitigate the increase in energy costs and support those most in need, are budgeted at EUR 1800 million, i.e. EUR 13 billion in direct measures plus credit lines for support to businesses. The honourable Member will find there the IRS, in relation to the minimum of existence, the decrease in the ISP, the extraordinary increases in pensions. In other words, there is a set of measures in this budget which make precise use of this increase in VAT revenue. Finally, Mr President, I would like to reply to you about the convergence. The PSD and the Liberal Initiative have been entertaining to invent a new concept of convergence, in which, instead of looking at real and objective convergence with those who are in front of us, they seek to throw the country into convergence with those from below, looking at those who are behind us. [[PSD and IL protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u115	Where do you think you are? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u116	If you take care to look for the numbers and see them with a little more attention... [[Protests by Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]] If you let me finish, I'll be quick. You may not like listening, but I'll be quick. Mr President, even to the pandemic, the governance of the Socialist Party has been the only one that has truly converged since Portugal entered the single currency. Is it hard to hear? It costs, but it's the truth.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u117	It was 20 years of divergence!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u118	Yes, sir, 20 years old. Look, let's also have the debate on the history channel with Prof. Miranda Sarmento. Both are together, because nothing has to be said about the present. [[PS's laughter and applause.]] [[Protests by Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]] Look at the numbers! I know you don't like it when reality goes well with the country, but with regard to the GDP numbers that have gone out today — Mr Guimarães Pinto, I will offer you the sheet! — the euro area grew 0, 4 %, while Portugal grew 2, 6 %, and the country that grew the most in the euro area. [[P.S.'s applause.]] For the percentage of the previous year, growth was 5, 2 % in the euro area and 11 % in Portugal. [[CH and IL protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u119	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the parts are regiment, but the dialogue is not. Let them hear the speaker, which, in fact, has to conclude. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with regard to the PRR, what I can say and ensure is that the execution runs at its natural rate and runs well. Like the ladies. Members should know that for these types of programmes there is a phase of contractualization, a phase of approval, a phase of project implementation, and only after that is the expenditure accounted for. So everything will happen sequentially and, from this point of view, in the coming months you will see the increase in execution. I want to finish, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, with the answer to the issues of deficit and debt, thanking Mr Sérgio Ávila's excellent intervention, which I would like to greet. In fact, those who say that we are in a time of uncertainty and that we have to prevent ourselves for the future cannot reach this House and present the argument that deficit and debt are of no interest to the living conditions of the Portuguese. I stress again: the low deficit and the withdrawal of Portugal from the list of the most indebted countries are not fetishes or medals. They are requirements for improving the living conditions of Portuguese and companies that work and operate in our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Whoever doesn't realize it won't understand the world we live in. That is why, in this context, we attach so much importance to this point, because indeed uncertainty exists. We can have better or worse times, and, as anyone of good sense perceives, it is in good times that we prepare for worse times.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u121	Mr. Minister, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u122	Mr. President, I will conclude. With regard to the decision of the Portuguese Government, which I have already transmitted, I am beating us for the additional derogation from the deadlines for the public deficit, assuming that we are meeting and that we will continue to meet, within these criteria, because, I repeat, it is the best way to protect Portuguese and Portuguese companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u123	Let us turn to the speeches of the parliamentary groups that have signed up to this effect. The first member is Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, from the Left Block, who has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u124	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members: It is a strange debate, this one that we are watching, in which, when the State Budget is discussed for a year that has already gone in the middle, in fact, more it seems that the discussion is about the history, both economic and political, of the country in the last decade. I found it strange—not entirely extraordinary, but strange! — yesterday, for example, the Socialist Party caught up in all the evils that the right made in the State Budget for 2013 to say "we are different". I found it strange, because this very parliamentary group of the Socialist Party chose for President Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias, who in 2013 said that the PSD Government and CDS, in which all this right felt represented, was short. [[Oh!...]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u125	It was the corrective budget!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u126	He said, and this point is relevant to understanding the value of words throughout this decade, that budgetary consolidation was clearly insufficient. Now, 2013 was an important year for the political turn we witnessed in the last decade. Why? Because it was at that time that those who said that they had the reality on their side and the true accounts showed the country that the true accounts of some, few, were the misfortune of the family accounts and that reality, which told us to be inevitable, was indeed a huge lie. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] That is why, Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias, who in 2013 a group of Members of the Socialist Party rebelled against the direction you represented, and, along with the Block of Left, it was to the Constitutional Court to do what some — even in the PS, but mainly in the right – claimed to be a huge irresponsibility: to say that cuts in wages and pensions were unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u127	That's not true! It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u128	See also the recklessness, the illusory position, the irresponsibility of the Left Block and some, courageous, Socialist Party Members were the turning point...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u129	On the contrary!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u130	...that showed how wages are fundamental to a healthy economy and how to cut wages and pensions is never the solution to certain public accounts. On the contrary, that is the recipe for the wrong State accounts, and that is one of the fundamental points. This Socialist Party seems almost the same as it is now in the government and that is why, six years after that, in the first budget of an absolute majority of the Socialist Party, we see that what we have been able to start pushing the door out, because it was the disaster of the country, is exactly the same as they want to impose on us. That's unacceptable. Mr. Prime Minister said days ago, at a meeting of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, that this government has not been free. I add: by presenting, for the first time in six years, in the first budget of an absolute majority of the PS, a proposal that clearly states that it surrenders to inflation and accepts widespread losses of purchasing power in the country, this government is a brutal change. It is not a loss of the state of freedom, but, yes, an entry into a state of misery of wages in our country. I believe that this turn is also worth highlighting. That is the same argument as when the right one told us that to have the right one had to cut wages, but we said that this was not true. It is this very little girl who has done so much wrong to the country, who now comes by the hands of the Government of the Socialist Party. We don't accept it. There is one thing in which Mr. Minister for Finance, Fernando Medina, is right, which is that there is a reality that separates us: the reality of those who said that it was necessary to cut to grow. It was shown that it was when he stopped cutting wages and pensions and began to respect them that the country began to grow seriously. It is this reality that separates us from those who do not believe — because they know it is a lie — from the idea that inflation is temporary.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u131	The Portuguese have already answered.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u132	Every time they say inflation is temporary, PS or government are trying to deceive people. They seem to want to say to them: "It's true, the economy is more expensive. When they're going to buy something, it's all more expensive and prices grow four times more than wages. So wages lose purchasing power, but don't worry, that's temporary. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, tell people the truth. Say what's going to happen is that prices won't come down tomorrow! The State budget itself says that next year prices will continue to rise. There is nothing temporary here, which is a loss of permanent purchasing power. There is a permanent impoverishment of the country. It is about this that all this debate on the State budget is focused on. The reality that separates us is that of people who have less and less wages for an increasing month. The reality that separates us is that of an increasingly diminished state for the country's needs. The reality that separates us is that of the increasingly demotivated civil servants, because this government is equal to that of the right, as far as respect for their rights is concerned. The reality that separates us is the economy in which the necessary investment is lacking, because the government is afraid not to accept that inflation is "eating" the public investment that was planned last October. By the way, the reality that separates us is even the very word of the Socialist Party. While last October, the Socialist Party — this government, with the same Prime Minister! — said «We have here a large budget, a deficit of 3, 2 % expected for 2022 », Mr Finance Minister Fernando Medina, now says that the former Minister of Finance John Leon was an irresponsible one because he actually had a deficit of 3, 2 %. He says it's therefore irresponsible, and that's what the Left Block said. In practice, we said that there is a margin in the public accounts, of revenues that inflation will bring—in particular VAT, whose revenue is growing—which must be returned to the economy, to people. Do not use this to lower the deficit. When necessary, they help the economy and people. What does the government do? It says that João León was irresponsible, that 3, 2 % deficit was irresponsible, and that it will therefore show a deficit of 1, 9 %. When people and the economy need, with this Budget, they can be certain of one thing: whoever turns their backs are the government and the PS. That is why it is the harsh reality of this country that separates us and it is to which the government intends to turn its backs. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u133	The Bureau shall record the registration of a Member to request clarification. To that end, Mr Sobrinho Teixeira of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, after hearing and listening to a series of interventions from the Left Block, I have the following systematic doubt: the Block does not see or does not want to see? The central concern of this Budget is to address all Portuguese and all families—and that the effort that this Budget makes is indeed for all—but it seems that the Left Block does not want to look at all Portuguese, because it does not value what is done for the generality of our population. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] Mr President, let me give you some examples of what you do not value: the guarantee for children, which is for all families; support for the increase in the tax deduction of the second child; intermediate steps, which will cover the generality of the Portuguese; or the extension of the IRS Young, which is for all young people in Portugal. Speaking in young people, it gives an idea that the Left Block does not value the future, because it does not see, or does not want to see, the effort being made in relation to our young people and their formation. It does not value the Learning Recovery Plan, amounting to EUR 900 million, and does not value the effort we are making in the continuing training of Portuguese, particularly in the context of the reduction of master's tips through the award of a grant. in this budget and in this government, the perspective is that the great advance that Portugal can have is in qualifications. We want the Portuguese to take out their degrees, but also to continue to master and doctorate. The Left Block does not, perhaps, value the greatest silent revolution in recent years in higher education, which was that we have more than 50 % of our 20-year-olds attending higher education, nor the social action effort that this represented. This corresponds to a growth of 25 % in six years. Earlier, what was a regression of the number of students in higher education without this representing a cost to the country, only for an ideological question that higher education should not be accessible to all young people and to all Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is also strange, for me, that the Left Block does not want to look at the whole country when it does not see, or does not want to see, the bet that this Budget and this Government are making on the inside and on the territorial cohesion. The Left Block does not appreciate the current reality in which there are 134 higher education localities—there were 36 years ago, Mr. [[P.S.'s applause.]] To give you a few examples, the Bloc does not, above all, value job creation and a reduction in unemployment, which means, indeed, a great return to families. Only those who are unemployed know how difficult it is to have no employment and see how much unemployment is going on. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Nor does it value what was done inside. Let me refer, for example, to the programme + CO3SO Employment, which in recent years has created 4932 jobs, half of which inside. And it does not value, for example, the highly qualified resource recruitment programme, which will qualify our business fabric and allow the creation of 2245 highly qualified jobs, a large percentage of which inside. So my question, with some admiration, is simple.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u135	Hello!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u136	Mr President, does the Left Block believe that the Budget and the Government should not also look to all Portuguese, look forward to the future and promote cohesion throughout the territory? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u137	To reply, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u138	Mr President, Mr Sobrinho Teixeira, I thank you for your question, but I must tell you that at least half a year late. That question should have been addressed to a debate we had about half a year ago, but I believe it has already been answered on the specific date. What remains to be answered is the present time. From that point of view, I understand your question, because she suffers from the same evil as the State budget: it is half a year late.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u139	At the time, they voted against it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u140	There seems to be no war, there is no galloping inflation, that the inflation of the previous month was not 7%! It seems that reality has changed, but the question and the Budget have not changed.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u141	I could have voted in favour six months ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u142	So when I ask myself whether we take into account the reality and cohesion of the country, I answer: we have and that is why we find the Government to be incomprehensible not to have in the State budget a response to the brutality of inflation, which today withdraws purchasing power to families, delays the economy and creates more inequalities. That's what we don't understand. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u143	For an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mrs. Isabel Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u144	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: This is the first of several — five — State budgets which will enable the Socialist Party to implement the programme of the legislative elections of 30 January and which the majority of Portuguese have supported. This is a programme which renews our commitment to the realization of the fundamental rights of citizens, the defence of democracy and the fundamental and fundamental value of justice. We will therefore continue to protect the most vulnerable, invest in modernising the administration of justice and improving the services provided to citizens, preventing and combating corruption. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The evaluation report on the European judicial systems for the period 2018 - 2020, prepared by the Council of Europe, attests to — in the words of the report — the considerable improvement that Portugal has achieved in relation to response time and the recovery of expectations, to which the process of innovation and digital transformation that we undertake and that this State budget will allow to consolidate. A transformation that is also reflected in closer, more accessible, more integrated services. We know that we do not yet have a problem-free justice system, but this cannot cloud our vision of the progress we have achieved or divert us from the objectives we have set and the commitments we have made before the Portuguese people. Despite the extraordinary recovery we have achieved in other jurisdictions, we know that, in administrative and fiscal justice, where recovery has been much more timid, there remain levels of procedural accumulation and times of resolution with which we cannot and do not want to conform. We know that the ongoing digital revolution in the justice sector does not solve all the problems, but it is indispensable for what we have already achieved: improving efficiency in the use of resources, improving response times, bringing the citizens closer to justice, freeing officials from the purely bureaucratic working hours system. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With this budget, we will continue to invest in the modernisation of the Digital Platform for Justice and in more technology at the service of the courts, criminal investigation and registers. With this Budget, we strengthen the protection and support of victims of crimes, with a special focus on children and victims of domestic violence. With this budget, we strengthen the fight against corruption and thereby the confidence of citizens in the institutions. And we don't leave behind those who nobody wants: the prisoners. Reforming the infrastructure of the prison and educational systems is a national imperative so that the dignity that everyone attends will always be preserved. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] In times of uncertainty, but also startling by the cruelty that, after all, men are still capable, this is a Budget that, without failing to meet what is necessary and immediately, does not deviate from the objectives we have set for the future of Portugal and the Portuguese. That was the request the Portuguese addressed to us.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u145	Some!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u146	Here we are to meet. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u147	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Monica Quintela of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Isabel Rodrigues, it was very pleased to hear her say that this time we are going to have a more efficient justice, because justice is not efficient, and I put some questions to her. The honourable Member spoke about the prison system, social reintegration and prisoners. I ask you how we are in terms of infrastructure at the Prison Establishment of Ponta Delgada, which, as we know, has often been criticized by international bodies and is an attack on rights, freedoms and guarantees in terms of fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u149	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u150	How will the inmates there be re-entered? How can this be compatible with the enormous decrease which, as you know, has been in the budget for the Directorate-General for Reintegration and Prison Services? How can speed up criminal investigations and the fight against corruption, which you referred to, with the de-investment in the Judicial Police, the Attorney-General of the Republic and all the criminal police bodies? I would also like you to explain to me where there has been — and these were the words of the honourable Member — the 'extraordinary recovery of dependencies' in the other jurisdictions, other than the administrative and the prosecutor's office. I ask you, yet, whether the recovery of expectations did not have to do with the enormous decrease in processes that came into the context of the pandemic. [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u151	It is easy to recover and decrease response time when processes do not enter. I also ask you what measures you have to take to effectively combat the scandalous and authentic defiance of justice in the administrative and fiscal jurisdiction. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u152	Finally, but no less important, I ask you whether the Socialist Party will follow the PSD's legislative initiative on the establishment of an administrative central court in the Central Region, which is absolutely imperative for administrative and fiscal jurisdiction to have some speed—though it will not solve the problem—in the higher courts, when it operates in appeal or even when it operates in the first instance. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u153	In reply, Mrs. Isabel Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Mónica Quintela has raised many questions, but I shall try to address as many as possible. Regarding the Prison Establishment of Ponta Delgada, when the PSD came to power in 2011, everything was ready and there was a word to start construction. You did not want to, but did more: the President of the Chamber of Ponta Delgada wanted to sell you a plot in the Azores Park for the construction of the prison establishment and you did not want to buy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u155	That was ten years ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u156	The truth is, with all the criticisms that exist, the only government that started the construction work of Ponta Delgada was the Government of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] This is the harsh reality for you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u157	That was ten years ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u158	You've already spoken, now I'll talk, if you'll excuse me. Is that so? Oh, my God! Thank you. On expectations, as you know, its reduction began long before the pandemic. The expressions are not mine, they are from the report that Dr. Poiares Maduro used, two weeks ago, to say that he did not know where the money of justice was spent in Portugal. The speaker showed the document she mentioned. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I give you an example: as far as executive action is concerned, we have increased from 970 000 in your time to 450 000. Isn't this a remarkable reduction, Your Honor? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] As for the Directorate-General for Resettlement and Prison Services, she knows, as well as I, that the most important component of the revenue is rates and emoluments, which have declined dramatically during the pandemic. But, I ask you, have you been paid wages? Is there anything left to do in the Directorate-General? [[P.S.'s applause.]] Don't! The words of the Government were fulfilled: the money needed, due to the revenue of taxes and emoluments being insufficient, would be transferred. And they went! I shall conclude by saying the following: I have never heard from you or anyone from the PSD a positive word about the justice system in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u159	Unbelievable!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u160	In fact, during the two years of pandemic, what you did was, month yes, month no, to announce the hecatombe in justice. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u161	But, honourable Member, all the institutions of justice have resisted and have continued to serve the Portuguese, and that is what will continue to happen. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u162	Mr Pedro Pinto has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u163	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have already talked about the importance of reversing the extinction of the SEF ( Service for Foreigners and Borders ), but we again demand that the government do so, because we cannot condemn the Portuguese to insecurity and violence. An extinction that, we remember, was made to please the main enemies of the security forces, who have as their face the Left Block. In fact, they look down because they don't have the courage to look up. [[CH's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u164	Have a judgment, that's what you need!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u165	Mr Minister of Internal Administration, I heard you last Wednesday making a sort of comparison between our emigrants, who were looking for a better life in other countries, where they haven't given them anything, with the migrants arriving in Portugal and who is given everything — money, house, light — without doing anything. It is to call them to enter the country, because we give everything without wanting anything in return! [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS protests.]] We're going to the real portrait of the country. The security forces, abandoned by the left and the extreme left — socialism is working — have teams falling from dust, right here near Lisbon, for example in the Ribatejo Moita. There are even some who close at night, due to lack of effectiveness, and others with lack of service cars. There are degraded teams, in which it rains in there, computers of the last century and bureaucracy the more for who will make a complaint. This is Eduardo Cabrite's legacy. Risk subsidies are a utopia, they don't even pay for expenses, with some agents nearly pay it to work. On admission in the security forces, this budget is little or nothing says. It only states that the number of effectives will be strengthened. But how many? Um? Two? Three? Yesterday, the Prime Minister has already shown that he can count, at least seven, that are the pages of his Budget where he sold himself to the NAP — more than those he devoted to the security forces. [[Congrats from the CH.]] In relation to the interior of the country, which has already been mentioned, the picture is even worse. It is a degrading and worrying picture, with the total abandonment of the territories, lack of means, lack of effectiveness and, in some cases, with the people delivered to their lot, at the hands of certain families. The answer of the authority agents is always the same: "We can do nothing. We have no means. We want to, but we can't. Do not keep on seeking. ” Men and women without protection, for themselves and for their families. A patrol for 100 km2, this is the reality in Tres-os-Montes, in the Beiras, in the Alentejo or in the Algarve. [[Congrats from the CH.]] A few months ago, in Reg next to Monsaraz, we saw two GNR (Republican National Guard) soldiers who were unable to do anything in the face of disappointment, in the sprawling of a café, who ended up in a rundown. You've been lifted up—you can imagine! — a process by inaction. Two military against a family of 10 or 12. This is the Real Country, the Country forgotten by António Costa. Mr Prime Minister, Minister of Internal Administration, ask former socialist authorships, who today are Members—and I see at least three: the former mayor of Customs of the Faith; Ricardo Pinheiro, of Campo Maior ; and the authorship of Ourique — whether or not it is true what I am saying. Ask them what it is like to live inside and feel insecure, abandoned by the central power. Yesterday, the Socialists said in this House that the Government of Steps and Doors closed GNR posts, and it is true that it closed some. But they cannot escape to reality: it is that the vast majority of these posts were closed by José Socrates. And do you know who the Minister of Internal Administration was? Antonio Costa! It was Antonio Costa! [[Congrats from the CH.]] I understand that, now, they say that José Socrates has attacked you. He did not anger you alone, but, yes, all Portuguese. However, there is a stamp from which, for many turns they give, they cannot be delivered. They can do the pine, the prawn, but José Socrates has the stamp of the Socialist Party. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Security forces have been victims of barbaric acts of aggression. I ask this Government if you will have the courage to accept the proposal of the Arrival to increase the penalties for crimes against the security forces. It is that in the vote of condemnation to the aggressions that were targeted by the GNR military of the village of Cuba, which we presented in 1. the Commission, all parties abstained. They hid! It failed them to say: "Yes, we condemn any act of violence against the security forces. It is not abstention, it is 'yes' or 'no'. Enough of the politically correct. Do you condemn or not condemn? [[Congrats from the CH.]] Finally, Mr Prime Minister, I leave you with two more questions: how many more effective will the security forces be integrated? And what do you intend to do with GNR posts closed inside the country? Yesterday, we had, here, the country of the wonders of Antonio Costa, but we brought the portrait of the Real Country. We know that not all politicians know him, until there were some who only campaigned in certain districts, where they could elect deputies—just a little bit, they didn't leave the Royal Prince or the Port River—but we know the reality of the country, of the common Portuguese, to whom you promised you didn't leave anyone behind, but left. In addition to the obsessive contempt of the extreme left by the security forces, it left 2 million Portuguese on the poverty line, 1 million without a family doctor, many Portuguese without work, without being able to pay for light or gas, without hope, without being able to fill the deposit, without future. We will be here to defend them, because we will not give up Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH, with Members standing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u166	For an intervention on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister for Infrastructure and Housing, Pedro Nuno Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u167	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are meeting in this House to discuss the State budget, which is the financial instrument that defines the government's concrete choices for the following year. But it is also a political moment of greatest importance, which is not limited to the financial dimension of governance or to a short-term horizon. It is not limited to the financial dimension, because a budgetary policy must always be consistent with the values we defend and in which a community of free members, whose shared life guarantees them equal rights and establishes their duties, the greater their ability to contribute to the community. And it is not limited to the short term because politics only makes sense when thought about long-term: that of the past and that of the future. It is the long time of the past that enables us to learn from the policies that have improved the quality of life of the community or that, on the contrary, have stagnated or regressed. And it is in the long time of the future that we can and must project the transformations that we dream of and we want to do in our country. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know the criticism from the right hand side to the government: that it does not like it, does not want or cannot make reforms. The right one loves the word « reform», which uses abusively and avulsively, perhaps because no one knows well what it means, as if its evocation exempts it from presenting, strictly, exactly what reforms it wants. I want to tell you about the transformative investment we are making in the railway and housing. We are not making cosmetic interventions or incremental improvements, we are transforming, in a profound, lasting and structural way, the policies of housing and rail mobility in Portugal. It is a profound, lasting and structural transformation of the kind that demands: persistence, commitment and patience; and much work in correcting wrong policies, which, for a long time, for action or omission, have served our community badly. The first is the transformation of a paradigm of mobility dependent on individual, inefficient and polluting road transport into a paradigm focused on collective transport, particularly rail transport. In the train, we protect the environment, decongested the cities, saved and saved the country. On the train, we read, we heard music and we worked. When we choose the train we are not just making a good choice for ourselves, we are making a good choice for others. Another person on the train is, most of the time, a car less than on the roads, a car less than occupying parking and a car less than polluting. The benefit of public transport is not profit, but rather enable all people, regardless of their condition, to have access to public space, school, work or culture.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u168	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u169	That's why the train is so transformative. while enriching individual experience and democratizing the community, contributes to responding to the problems of everyone, even those who do not use the train, fighting climate change and decongesting cities. It was for all this that we started the largest investment already made in Portugal on the railway and is along the way to transformation. After decades when the railway has been abandoned, when lines have been closed, where the CP (trains of Portugal) has been left without direction and to accumulate endless debt, the railway has again been at the heart of the debate on mobility. With our work, CP won a public service contract, will see its debt healed and saw: EMEF (Train Equipment Maintenance Company) back home, Guifões' workshop to reopen, the number of workers to be strengthened, their cleaner trains and reduced suppressions to historical levels. It recovered dozens of units, between cars, locomotives and cars that were abandoned and rotting through the country, whose recovery cost EUR 9 million, but which, if new ones, would cost EUR 138 million. [[P.S.'s applause.]] He bought 51 cars to Renfe for EUR 1, EUR 7 million and, if we add the cost of renewal, it will be EUR 11 million when all are renewed. If they were new, it would cost EUR 51 million. But since this recovered material is not enough, CP has still launched a competition for the greatest purchase of its history: 117 new trains, which add up to the 22 that were already contracted for the regional service. Our work, however, is not reduced to CP. Portugal currently has virtually all its railway network in works, which aim to electrify the network, increase the competitiveness of rail freight transport and connect our ports to Spain.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u170	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u171	Less than two years after the end of the implementation of the 2020 Railway, we have already launched the next investment cycle. The transformation into the railway will continue, with the following three key priorities: to achieve, by the end of the decade, the goal of having the entire national rail network electrified; to strengthen the network capacity in the two metropolitan areas, with the modernization of the Cascais Line and the quadrupling of the line between the Areeiro and Braço de Plata, in Lisbon, and the line between Ermesinde and Contumil, in Porto; finally, to build a high-speed line of high capacity, connecting Lisbon to Porto, passing through Leiria, Coimbra and Aveiro, following to the Francisco Sá Carneiro Airport, Braga and Vigo. A railway axis that will allow a lot of travel between these cities, but also between them and several cities in the interior. A railway axis that will radically change how you live, work and travel to Portugal. If this is not a profound, lasting and structural reform in mobility, what is it? [[P.S.'s applause.]] This investment in rail does not remain for CP and infrastructure, it is having consequences in our industry and in our companies. First, because the national incorporation in the trains we are recovering reaches 90 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u172	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u173	Then, because in the book of charges for the contest of new trains we were very clear in the incentives for their manufacture in our country. And there have already been several competing manufacturers who claimed the intention to build a factory in Portugal. Finally, because we created, in Guifões, Matosinhos, the Centre of Railway Skills, which brings together public operators, the university and the private sector and where we will conduct training, research and incubation of new companies in the railway sector. If this is not a strategy for our companies and for industrial development, what is it? The other profound, lasting and structural transformation that I wanted to talk to you about is that which is ongoing in housing policies. For decades in Portugal, it was believed that the market would solve the problem of access to housing. Public intervention was reduced to compulsive freezing of income, to PER (Special Programme for Relocation) — a programme for the eradication of barracks, limited in time and territory to both metropolitan areas — and finally to the incentive, through interest subsidies, to the indebtedness of families for the purchase of homes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u174	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u175	The chronic lack of investment in housing policies resulted in a residual public housing park of 2 % of the total country park, one of the lowest percentages of the European Union. The result, today, is a very serious lack of housing at prices that Portuguese families can cope with: a shortage that has already reached not only the most deprived families but also the middle income families; a shortage that, unfortunately, will take years and much public investment to resolve. Because in terms of housing there are no ‘silver bullets’, and in order to mitigate the problems that we are experiencing today, we quickly created a very advanced framework of tax incentives for affordable lease, which allows even the total tax exemption, at the IRS or IRC, or the reduced VAT rate for rehabilitation and construction for affordable lease. We know, however, that only with a large public park would we be able to respond to the needs of our population and even condition the market prices themselves. The ongoing transformation in housing policies aims to create what should have been created long ago in Portugal: a sufficiently broad and robust public response, capable of, as our social state has done in health, education and social security, giving a comprehensive response to the needs of the community. In housing policies there has also been a long journey towards transformation in recent years, from the adoption of two structural diplomas — the New Habitat Policy Generation and the Housing Bases Act — to the progressive achievement of our strategic objectives: firstly, to ensure access to housing is commensurate with people with high economic shortage, through programme 1. the law; secondly, to promote responses to families with average incomes, with the creation of a public housing park at affordable costs and with priority recourse to returned public property; thirdly, to implement the rehabilitation plan of the IHRU housing park (Instituto da Habitação e da Rehabilição Urbana) ; and finally to create an urgent and temporary housing stock exchange, capable of responding to emergency situations and intended for people at risk. If this is not a profound, lasting and structural reform in housing policy in Portugal, what is it? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, for the Socialist Party, unlike the right, to make reforms is not to privatize, liberalize, deregulate and hope that miracles will happen.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u176	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u177	For us, the reforms call on the public, private, social and academic sectors and create the conditions for them, in cooperation, to improve, enrich, transform life into a community. It was the absence of good collective policies that pushed people to individual solutions, such as excessive dependence on the car and credit to housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u178	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u179	Because it is the good collective solutions that increase individual freedom. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is with public investment in housing and mobility that we reduce inequalities in the enjoyment of our cities, that we bring justice to the sharing of urban space, that we democratize the experience of freedom. If there is a central variable in all public investment policies in the area of infrastructure and housing, it is time: the long time of the past, when we wander in the policies chosen or because we do not act at the right time; the long time of the future, that our policies intend to build and change, in a perennial and structured way; but also the time of the present, the time in which we act and in which we do our best to seek to transform the policies of the country. This time of implementation of policies, we are fully aware, is almost always too long for the real needs and the legitimate expectations of the Portuguese. Indeed, and for those who, like us, do not believe in magical solutions, there is no alternative to face the difficulties with work, with persistence and with the conviction that our policies will make Portugal a more just country and where the people will live better. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u180	Mr Minister, the Bureau records the entries of 14 Mr. Members to ask for clarification, to which, I presume, he will answer in two blocks. The first request for clarification is from Mrs Paula Santos of the Portuguese Communist Party. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, the country needs to attract more users to public transport, it is a fact, and this is only achieved with more and better offer. Only in this way will the path that has been initiated by the decisive intervention of the CFP with the extension of the social pass and the PART ( Programme of Support for Tariff Reduction in Public Transport) be maintained. But trains are missing.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u182	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u183	In 2018, a proposal from the CFP was adopted here for a national plan for circulating material, but the government pretended to ignore it and delays continued, despite the urgency of climate, social and economic. It is necessary to increase supply in the metropolitan areas, in the long course and in the regional lines. International links must be resumed. It doesn't help to build lines if there are no trains. It is true that there are two competitions going on, but in these 20 years, in which the country has not bought any train, many have been the competitions going on. So I ask you: what assurances does the government give that these tenders will lead to the rapid acquisition of new trains and will also allow the increase in supply in the long course and in the international sector to be achieved? On housing, Minister, difficulties in access to it are growing. Costs reach highly speculative amounts; in contrast, wages give less and less. There are more and more families who are afraid of losing their home, but the Budget does not give the answers necessary for anyone to lose their home and to ensure that the right to housing is indeed for everyone. What solutions does the government have to prevent families from losing their homes, considering the prospect of increasing interest rates? I would like to give you a concrete example of what must not happen. In the Griné neighborhood, in Santa Joana, Aveiro, IHRU cleared two families and are at risk of clearing 12 other families, in a total of 36 children. These are degraded housing that these families have improved, with electricity contracts. They sought, together with the IHRU, to regularize their situation, never responded to this objective, and now the solution presented to them is the clearance. The street door can't be the solution. in another way, the PRR has been presented as alpha and omega to increase the public housing park, but the government well knows that the real needs, already identified by the municipalities, are well above the 26,000 dwellings.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u184	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u185	This adds to the fact that the cost of construction materials is increasing. So the question is this, Minister : when the PRR is finished, what will it be like? How will funding be ensured to ensure that these dwellings are actually built, responding to the deficiencies identified? On the urban lease, why does the government continue to refuse solutions to ensure more stability in the lease, to put an end to the disposal counter and to ensure income values that are not speculative? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u186	To request clarification, Mr. Francisco César, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u187	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members, the Minister has repeatedly stated that this is a government that wants to reform the country, it is a government that wants to have a reformist policy, but not that reformist policy that cuts wages and negatively affects people's lives. Mr. Minister spoke of transformative investment, that investment that improves and empowers the country. He talked about investing in the railways. He talked about investment in the ports, in the housing. This is an investment by this government which not only comprises the Portuguese continent but also includes autonomous regions, particularly in the areas of ports and housing. However, when we speak in the Autonomous Region of the Azores, there are other investments that are fundamental and transformative and that allow people to improve their lives. When we talk about empowering a region to have the instruments and tools to grow, we can talk about submarine cables. Without submarine cables, we would not have the ability and the possibility to access voice communications, data communications, and this is essential for the Autonomous Region of the Azores to develop and enter a new development cycle. So it was with satisfaction that, yesterday, we heard the Prime Minister of Portugal say that the issue of submarine cables will have developments... [[Go, go...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u188	...and that, finally — finally! — your public tender will be launched by this Government. It was at the time of the Socialist Party in 1995 that the current investment of submarine cables was launched and implemented and will be with this Government of the Socialist Party, that the new submarine cables will be implemented. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u189	Now it is! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u190	But not only about this can we talk about the Azores. Moreover, the Azores should not present themselves as a petitioner, as someone who desperately needs national solidarity. The Azores must present themselves as an area which, like any other part of the country, needs fundamental instruments to develop:...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u191	Like I said several times!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u192	... submarine cables, airport infrastructure and, something that is an ancient claim of the Socialist Party, the development and expansion of the Horta airport runway. It was with this Government, of the Socialist Party, that this matter went back to the agenda and that finally constituted a working group to provide answers on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u193	Ah! ...a working group...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u194	We know that there are developments, Mr Minister, and I therefore ask you this question: what progress do we have on the airport of Horta, so that in the near future we can realize what is one of the dreams of the population of the Azores, in particular the island of Faial?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u195	Now it is! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u196	The Minister knows that he will have this bench and the Members of the Socialist Party to work towards this dream to be a reality. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, for the Azores, mobility is fundamental. We know of the difficulties we had with regard to public service obligations for the islands of Santa Maria, Pico and Faial. We know that these routes are not profitable or viable and that the European Commission itself does not allow the SATA(Açorian Air Transport Society) to have routes that are not profitable. We know that it was a commitment of the Socialist Party in the last elections to ensure that new public service obligations were launched in the future as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u197	I didn't want liberalisation!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u198	Therefore, the question I put to you, Minister, is to know what developments we have on this subject and what the Government's commitment for these three islands to be served by a public air transport service which is not only truly competitive for airlines but also effectively serves the region. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u199	To make a request for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u200	Mr President, Minister, 4 % is inflation that will erode the purchasing power of workers, to whom the government will not increase the salary, and 75 % is the increase in the purchase price of housing since 2015, without having been done to contain the nonsense of inflation that has spread to incomes. The Minister has a good theory, with which I agree: collective solutions are a guarantee of freedom. But the practice of the government has been another, since it is sitting on golden visas, of tax benefits to non-standard residents, of unbridled local housing, of special real estate funds, while thousands of people have been shot for degrading housing conditions, while thousands of young people have left the city centers, while families have committed themselves with millionaire bank loans to get two rooms and a room with 60 m2 in any urban center. The now announced measure of the increase in the maximum limits of Gate 65 is only proof of the government's inability to control the price of income. It is enough to account: half of the young Portuguese earns €767 per month — I repeat, €767 — for these young people to have access to Gate 65, living, for example, in Lisbon, it is necessary to find a miracle, a house that costs less than €460 per month, which will still consume 60% of these thin wages. Mr Minister, please tell me what is the parish of Lisbon where these young people can find a house that fits into the increase in the limits of Gate 65. The PS has given up and delivered the Portuguese to the fate of a freely hyper-inflationed market — in fact, liberals would not make any worse, because even in the Netherlands local housing is more controlled than in Portugal — and in the most basic way the government is responding. Program 1. the right, which Mr. Minister spoke of, the great electoral promise of the Socialist Party in 2019 to eradicate all housing shortages by 2024, is a flop, is a disaster. The government insisted on a survey that knows not to be true and made the accounts to 26 000 homes. Still, we are in 2022, there are 3000 new dwellings to show and needs exceed the 70,000 dwellings. The government does not say so and does not commit to any concrete goal for the promise it made in 2019, until it cannot. The housing universe has increased, prices have increased, but funding is exactly the same as in 2019, but now, instead of being the State Budget, it is the PRR, and so we do not have to bother Mr. Minister of Finance to approve more investment for housing in Portugal. Mr Minister, the questions I have to ask you are the following: what are the real housing shortages? What are the goals you're committed to? What are the targets for 2024, in the context of housing construction, in order to solve the problems of shortage? What will you do to control the price of income? What will it do to protect from increasing interest the families who, in order to obtain a home in a market where rent is not possible and prices are clearly impossible too, have been thrown into millionaire loans? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u201	Mr Hugo Costa, from the PS, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u202	Mr President, Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Minister for Infrastructure and Housing, about their intervention and the typical debate that the opposition is holding in this House, we are, first of all, faced with ideological positions on the different forms as we believe that the State should or should not intervene in the economy and public investment should or should not be an integral part of an economic development policy. The effects of public investment are clear on economic growth, employment and of course also on private investment. But in this plenary, we find those who, in the exercise of government functions, speak in a simple and economic manner, have always believed that public investment is a problem, even if it now defends its opposite. What an inconsistency! For example, the main opposition party consecutively refers to the excess state in Portugal 2030 and the PRR, but then calls for more rail, more investment in ports, more roads, more public services in health and education. Incoherence!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u203	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u204	At the same time, it calls for more budget in all areas, an equation of impossible solution. It is the same strategy as in the past to say that the Budget gave everything to everyone and now to say that the Budget is of austerity. This inconsistency has already been judged by the Portuguese, last January. As Mr Minister has well said, at rail level, we have seen in the governments of the Socialist Party, the increased investment in the last decades, on line, in safety and rolling stock, preventing the privatization and dismemberment of the operational part of EMEF workshops. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is proud of this work, just as it is proud that public transport operators have been able to respond to the difficult times of the pandemic. Nor can we forget that it was with the Government of the Socialist Party that the Programme of Support for Tax Reduction in Public Transport was possible, with a clear saving for millions of Portuguese. We talk about savings that can reach more than one hundred euros per month: for example, our citizens from my district, Santarém, who use the railway daily to Lisbon save about 100 € per month. in this way, I would like to ask the Minister about the importance of the PRR and the other financing mechanisms to leverage investments in rail, and of course it is also important to find funding mechanisms for the road. We must not forget — since, of course, others may ask questions — the theme of TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ). Portugal did the same as most European countries: an intervention to save the company, which is now a brand of our country, a large exporter and a large job creator. What we see is often critical without solutions. What do you want, after all? Eliminate TAP and send all workers to unemployment? What are the consequences for GDP, employment and tourism? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u205	For a request for clarification, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u206	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, Minister, in the report of the State Budget, it is written that the impacts of the pandemic on TAP « were similar to those verified in the general nature of the airlines' air carriers. If, in fact, the impacts on TAP were similar to those of other airlines, then we have a serious problem of government mismanagement. It is that the most important airlines in Europe, such ones that had similar impacts, or did not need to receive money from the state, or received and have already returned it, or then received and are about to return the money to the state. We're talking about Lufthansa and Air France, who are about to return the money.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u207	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u208	Mr Minister, if the impacts on TAP were similar to those of other airlines that either received funds or have already returned them, or are they about to return them, can you tell us, please, when will the TAP return the money injected?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u209	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u210	If the impacts on TAP were similar to those of other airlines, why did Portugal, both as a percentage of GDP and as a percentage of public expenditure, put more than double the money that other countries put into their airlines? Why? If they were exactly the same problems, why did that happen? If the impacts on TAP were, as the State Budget report states, similar to those of other airlines, then this matter was very poorly managed,... [[Protests from PS Francisco César and Hugo Costa.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u211	What about the European Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u212	...because not only did we put much more money in the TAP than the others as we will never receive it back. [[Applause from the IL.]] Yesterday, Mr Minister, your Prime Minister spoke of the flagship measures of this Budget for increasing purchasing power: the IRS Young, the extraordinary updating of pensions, the children's guarantee package, the free daycare allowance, the updating of pay for public service.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u213	You've been careful!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u214	He spoke of these as the great emblematic measures, but he forgot to say that the cost of all these measures together is lower than what is going to be injected into the TAP only this year — and I am not talking about all the years, but only this year! [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u215	It's one-off expense!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u216	All your emblematic measures cost less than injection into the TAP. Looking at all Portuguese who will see their real income cut, does it still not see any better alternative use for the 3, 2 billion euros that will be injected into the TAP? Looking at the way TAP was quickly replaced in port, where it is already the third airline, in Madeira, where it is already the second company, in Faro, where, I don't know, nor exists, or almost does it exist, and in Lisbon, where it is not exceeded only because it does not release the slots that other airlines have,... [[Protests from PS Francisco César.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u217	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u218	...don't you regret a little bit of the hole in which you put the country? I have heard him talk very poetically about the importance of the train. I even agreed with you and thought it would be great for Mr Minister to stay in history as the « train minister ». Unfortunately, it will remain for history as the « Minister of TAP Hole », because that is the main impact it has in the country. [[Applause from the IL.]] Mr Minister, you agree with your employer, in fact, with your financial colleague... [[PS laughter.]] ... about the most appropriate future model for TAP to be private? Do you agree that TAP should be integrated into a large airline? If so, if you agree with your financial colleague, when will that happen? [[Applause from the IL.]] Finally, knowing that Mr Minister makes a very ideological speech against wage inequalities and in favour of progressive IRS, can you tell us, us and the public at home, how much does the CEO (executive chief officer) of the TAP win, which Mr Minister has hired? What is the multiple of the CEO's salary in relation to a TAP cleaning officer? [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u219	Is that liberal? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u220	Finally, does the TAP CEO pay the IRS rate as all Portuguese or has a single rate under any non-standard resident program? [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u221	We're used to it on the right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u222	Will it always be like this? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u223	Mr António Topa Gomes, from the PSD, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u224	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members, starting with comment that this Budget essentially refers housing policies to the PRR, sniping-CL-i-me to its main measures, particularly to 1. o Law. Indeed, you have unique conditions to solve, or help to solve, the problems of housing, either by the money of the PRR, or because you have unique political conditions. Perhaps that is why it is noted that the government began to study a good example, which was the absolute majority government of Prof. Cavaco Silva. Earlier yesterday, the Prime Minister quoted it and the Minister himself quoted the PER, which, I remember, is only the largest housing programme in the country, having eradicated 40 000 barracks in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]] They do well to learn from who did well!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u225	Who? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u226	By now, speaking in democracy in 2021, Mr Prime Minister announced the goal of all families in Portugal having a decent home in the 50 years of April. We know today that there are already about 60 000 families who have outraged housing conditions...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u227	You didn't do anything about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u228	...and so they signed up for 1. o Law. The Minister mentioned several times the long time and patience, perhaps to alert us, to prevent us from delaying the programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u229	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u230	Indeed, we know that "budgeted" and "executed" even rhyme, but rarely synonymous—and then, with the Government of the Socialist Party, they are almost never synonymous! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u231	The people don't think the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u232	I know that Mr. Minister was my opponent in the legislative elections,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u233	I won! [[PS laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u234	...but it is up to me to be a Member. We know that much of the delay already in programme 1. the law results from the bureaucratic and administrative burden and the response times of the IHRU. So my first question is objective: what is the government thinking of doing to solve this problem? Otherwise, in fact, we have to have a lot of time and patience. I would like to mention another absolutely worrying aspect. We talk a lot about inflation, which the government says it does not decree, but that it has to exist. Despite the fact that housing is not included in the measures that the Government states — which are related to fertilizers and fuels — the numbers are even more worrying in this area. The price index of the construction published in April has two digits and, if we speak of materials indispensable to the construction, such as steel and wood, inflation has three digits. So this is going to rise significantly. I have two final questions to ask you, Minister. We know that the PRR has to be completed by 2026, when the funding ends. With the danger of this spillover, whether by deadlines or by competitors, what measures does the Government have in the current Budget to prevent this situation?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u235	Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u236	Finally, Mr Minister, in programme 1. the law, which we recognize is necessary to try to remove angry housing conditions, funding has a price per square meter. However, even today, in some municipalities—because the price varies from municipality to municipality, and well, say — that price is not enough. We'll get to 2026 and we'll lack a lot of money. What I ask is whether the government will be a partner of the municipalities in the resolution of this price or whether it will leave them alone to their fate—in case, to their sad luck, as has been the habit. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u237	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Maria Begonha of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u238	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, the PS has chosen to make the greatest national reform in the public housing policy that there is memory in our country. Several governments and decades of invisibility and desistence in housing demonstrate the magnitude of the importance of this choice by the PS governments. We did not give up, unlike what the Left Block said.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u239	They have 3,000 houses to present!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u240	In fact, the Left Block itself — and the left — contributed to the Housing Base Law and to a new generation of public housing policies, when the right was absent, without proposals or contributions. From Budget to Budget, without hiding behind what is lacking, the PS governments have set new goals, always with the same goal: to consolidate housing as a social pillar of the State, which always responds to those who need it—as we have already answered in the past—but which is also focused on the middle classes. That is why this is the largest national reform of public housing in this country, because it reaches not only those who need it but also the middle classes, absent from the national housing policy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u241	Three thousand houses are what you have to present!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u242	The fight against decent and accessible housing scarcity, the fight against barriers that are put to the realization of the project of life of young people and middle classes is a hard and time-consuming struggle, because it takes time, investment time, rehabilitation time, construction time, the time of a public housing park for rent that responds to these challenges, after decades of uninvestment and poor liberal solutions. This is a structural reform — an expression so widely used by the right, both conservative and liberal — that the right does not wish to implement and reject, a reform which has mobilized will, effort and resources, both public and private, central and local administration, in a broad consensus on its importance for the country's progress. The right, which, in this debate, both spoke of reformist will, had the opportunity to carry out its project of society. It linked austerity and impoverishment to the liberalisation of incomes and the alienation of public wealth and gave the housing policy to the market. The result is what we know: the ideological mistrust of the State and the less public investment corresponded more social inequalities and the unjust exclusion of middle classes and young people from their full right to access to a house.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u243	Now it's much better! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u244	We do not accept to be confused with this policy, Mrs Deputy. On the right hand, they resist the public intervention of the State — some even wanting to free us from it, others wanting it to respond, in the case of social housing, only to some — but have no other solutions or strategies. Therefore, it is essential to clarify a myth: liberalism in housing is even deregulation. Mr Minister, I would like to conclude by asking whether the Government can ensure that the major housing reform, reinforced in this Budget also using the PRR, will continue to be a priority, with the financial and political stability it needs, and will seek to activate all the mechanisms and instruments at its disposal to overcome difficulties in implementing and implementing the public housing policy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u245	To respond to this first block of requests for clarification, Mr President-in-Office for Infrastructure and Housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u246	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Paula Santos, we agree, and we both agree on the acquisition of circulating material, which we are doing. When we assume government responsibilities in the area, aware that the time for us to get new trains to be a reality was delayed—there are no trains on stand, as you know — we did an emergency work, which was to identify the circulating material that, for decades, unfortunately, had been stuck by the country, which enabled us to recover several tens of compositions, which are already circulating in our territory, and to increase the supply. We also bought used cars at Renfe. In fact, we have been criticized for buying iron-olds, but this circulating material is already being renewed, with a strong national incorporation—and I know that this is also important for the CFP—and is currently in testing to be put into circulation. Still, we did not stop making orders of new circulating material. They are two contests: one of them, already completed, allowed us to have 22 cars already in manufacture and the other is running for the acquisition of 117 new trains. There is no parallel in the history of CP and rail in Portugal for an investment of this size in circulating material. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH's laughs.]] If there is, say it! On housing, Mrs Deputy, let me tell you, and this is transversal to other interventions that have been made, that there is a confusion between PRR and 1. o Law. The 1st. law is a program that, unlike PER, which was limited in time and metropolitan areas, has underlying a perennial, structural policy, forever, and, as such, was created before there was PRR and will continue to exist after the PRR end. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u247	The big difference, in view of the policies we have had over the years, is that today we are creating a permanent programme, a housing policy system. Now, or 1. the law is part of this strategy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u248	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u249	What did the PRR give us? A financial instrument to enable us to run the largest number of dwellings in a short period of time, with 100 % funding guaranteed by the State — in this case by the PRR. Therefore, given this confusion, we all need to understand the functioning of the 1. o Law. In addition, the authorities of the CDU (Unitarian Democratic Coalition) have acceded to the programme and, in this context, we have signed cooperation agreements with them for the sharing of financing,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u250	That's not enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u251	... being part of the authority and part of the State budget. I remember that these agreements exist independently of the RPP, which gives us EUR 1200 million to be able to finance the first 26 000 to 100 %. Mr Prime Minister, when he said that he wanted to respond by 2024 to situations of indignity in which 26,000 families live, he was referring to the first survey the State had made, in fact, that the IHRU did, with the authorities, in respect of situations of deficiency and indignity.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u252	Not all of them!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u253	We have come to this number and started working on it, which has not prevented us from moving forward to a more accurate, detailed work of identifying needs in matters of deficiency. This job is being done! It's 48 000, 60 000, 70 000...? The country will be there! [[P.S.'s applause.]] All cooperation agreements already have their planned funding. Ask me: what about the PRR? Funding is planned. All municipalities that signed cooperation agreements with the Government and IHRU assumed a responsibility for participation in this effort, which is clear in each agreement, including in the authorities of the CDU. In fact, we already have works completed in several municipalities, including Évora, Lisboa, Loulé, Matosinhos, Oeiras, Porto, and we have many others in progress in several municipalities of the CDU, particularly in the Sixal, but also in other municipalities of the Country, such as Setúbal, Torre de Moncorvo, Arruda dos Vinhos, Évora, Loulé, Matosinhos, Ponte de Sór, Porto, Silves, Tavira, Viseu, Vizela, Lisbon, Odivelas... The 1. The law is already on the ground and we will execute it in full. With regard to the home bet, let me tell you that Housing Europe, which is the largest comparative study platform for housing policies, has identified the various countries that have waged in the financing of housing by the PRR. There are nine countries which have proposals for EUR 5, EUR 51 billion — Portugal, Spain, Slovenia, Sweden, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Ireland, Latvia — and Portugal has EUR 2, EUR 7 billion for housing. In other words, a total of EUR 5, EUR 51 billion for these nine countries, Portugal has more than half the total investment in housing. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is the measure of priority for us.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u254	They have no income control!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u255	Mrs Mariana Mortágua has done great evil—to me, who publicly never wanted to separate me from the gentlemen—from categorizing me as a liberal. [[IL rice.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u256	I want to know about the rents, which are from the Crystals!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u257	Mrs Deputy, in her speech on housing, asked the State to grant speculative incomes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u258	Did you hear me say that?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u259	That's the affordable income!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u260	I'll explain.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u261	Then explain it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u262	What we did with Gate 65 was try to adapt it to the escalation of prices on the lease,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u263	Aren't these subsidies?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u264	... but Gate 65 was never the structural solution to the problems of housing and young people, because obviously what happens is that the state follows the speculative movement of incomes,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u265	Control your reindeer!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u266	... consuming, with this, more and more public resources.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u267	Control your reindeer!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u268	The right solution is public investment in a public housing park, which is what we are doing. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In terms of income control, Mrs Deputies, I must tell you that today we see a movement of capital flows to real estate throughout Europe, especially in large capitals, and that we have difficulty following this process. Any income control right now will make the landlords that we still have on the market disappear, not the other way around.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u269	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u270	But it's true! We only have lease market if we have people who want to be tenants and people who want to rent their own house. [[Applause from the IL.]] If we control income, what we can be doing right now is worsening the situation that we are already watching, that is, the withdrawal of homes from the lease market.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u271	What about the local accommodation?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u272	The solution is really what we're doing.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u273	It's 3,000 houses...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u274	It takes time, but it's the right and right job: investing in a public housing park. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u275	Mr. Minister, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u276	Mr. President, there is a need to respond to some of them. Ladies and gentlemen, and I can do this in the next speech, but I cannot leave Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto with no answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u277	Thank you!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u278	The Liberal Initiative is monothematic. The theme that occupies the whole programme, from beginning to end, is the reduction of taxes, which is, in fact, the solution to all problems: it is the solution for the country's economic growth and it must also be the solution to the problem of lack of water in the country, or for coastal erosion,... [[It's in the program! There you go!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u279	... or even to win the Eurovision festival next time. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[IL protests.]] I assume that in order to renew the victory at the Eurovision festival, tax reduction is necessary. [[PS laughter.]] What this reveals is that the IL does not have a strategy, it has a service, which is to reduce taxes, and we know who, first of all. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto added a new theme: that of TAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u280	New? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u281	Yes, a new subject beyond the reduction of taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u282	You're the one who added it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u283	Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto asked a question, which I wanted to answer directly and then they didn't say we were running. He asked: Why does TAP, even though it has suffered more or less the same as other companies depending on the pandemic, have a higher injection than other airlines? And I say, because TAP had problems before the pandemic. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u284	And then too!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u285	Mr President, the negotiation with the European Commission, in whose rigor I believe it trusts, was not easy and no more than what the TAP would need, respecting market conditions, which is what is underlying the negotiation and the decision of the European Commission. Therefore, TAP received more because it had previous problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u286	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u287	The easiest decision for this government, with regard to TAP, would be to let it close. We would have a serious problem, with 10 000 redundancies — very serious, indeed —...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u288	But they fired 4000!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u289	... but from a political point of view, we solved the problem on several fronts: in front of the Portuguese, because we have to explain that it is a greater damage not to save the company; in front of the workers, who are being sacrificed throughout this process, with cuts reaching 50 %; and on the commercial front, because it is a great challenge to get the TAP to be a viable company. It was easier for us to drop the company, but it was a tremendous mistake for the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are talking about one of the largest exporters in the country, not only in gross exports but also in liquid exports, and in a country that has a chronic problem, for decades, perhaps centuries, it would be a huge irresponsibility to let it fall.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u290	Biggest importers!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u291	That was one of our main objectives. We could not simply see the fall of a company, whether of aviation or any other sector, which exports about EUR 3000 million, 1000 million of which in net exports.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u292	So they took money from the rest of the economy to put it there!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u293	I'm sorry, but I'll answer the other questions in the next round. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u294	The first of the next block of seven requests for clarification belongs to Mr Filipe Melo of the Arrival. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u295	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister for Infrastructure and Housing, I am not going to talk about either TAP or housing, I am going to leave this to the parties who come down the Avenue by hand. I'm just gonna talk to him about the trains. Mr. Minister, a few moments ago, he said that on the trains, we heard music, we worked... I couldn't agree more, it's true. However, I ask: Mr Minister, do you have any idea why a lot of people don't use trains? Because of the growing and clearly apparent insecurity in the trains. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u296	On the Beja line is an insecurity! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u297	Take it easy! Take it easy, take it easy, you gentlemen, take it easy, you've had your time. With so much investment in rail, I ask the Minister, very directly and specifically, whether or not it makes a greater investment in safety,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u298	Don't say shit!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u299	There in Alentejo you can't stand crime!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u300	... in particular in video surveillance and reinforcement of police on trains, especially on suburban lines, Lisbon and Porto,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u301	There you go! All trains have surveillance!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u302	...to make people feel safer on trains and view them as a privileged form of transport. In 2021, in the presentation of the PRR, the Minister said he had an amount of 520 million allocated to the investment in this area. Today, the 2022 budget provides for the transfer of revenue of 25 million for the acquisition of rolling stock. It is a very big difference, Minister. So I ask whether the planned investments, with these budget transfers, will actually be for new material or whether, in the face of the shortage of money, we will have to use used material. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u303	For a request for clarification, Mr. Paulo Moniz, of the PSD, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u304	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Minister, we have seen and heard your political option to allocate to TAP 3, EUR 2 billion—not to public funds, public money, not to Portuguese taxes, because that is what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u305	That's a game of words!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u306	It's public money!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u307	This option, of course, has, and has, we suppose, objectively, the viability of the company, and it only makes sense. It happens that numbers and their evolution often lie, more quickly than would be expected, the evolutionary perspective that they have for the TAP and the faith with which they view this process. I would even say that, in your case, in relation to TAP, it is clearly a victory of hope over experience. And why? Over the past 10 years, the TAP has not only harmed one of them. The probability of believing that now is going to be, from my point of view, is unrealistic.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u308	Are you going to support it?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u309	But I'm telling you more: in 2020, TAP suffered a loss of EUR 1200 million, and recently, compared to the financial year 2021, the damage reached a record of EUR 1600 million. That is, cumulatively, we have EUR 2, EUR 8 billion of damage in the last two years. What is the point here? TAP, from our point of view, no longer merely has the state as an shareholder, but is truly incinerating the money of Portuguese taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u310	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u311	It's incinerating! Mr Minister, in 2020, she incinerated EUR 1200 million of Portuguese tax money and in 2021, EUR 1600 million. Do you know how much it takes a day in 2021? Give 4, 4 million euros! In 2021, for each passing day, TAP incinerated 4, 4 million euros of Portuguese. Well, I guess...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u312	And it's Azorian!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u313	I am Azorian, with great pleasure and great honor, and perhaps, too, I can have this view further, because we used to have the horizon as a perspective. [[PSD and IL Members applauded.]] Mr Minister, I confess — I believe you know — that I am feeling some sympathy for you as a member of the government...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u314	Fair enough. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u315	Look at the cyumera!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u316	...and I'm beginning to fear that the incinerator that TAP is for the taxes of the Portuguese can be a political incinerator for you. [[PSD applause.]] Mr Minister, in my view here, the whole government bench is intrusive—of course, it is not, because it is at a parallel level—and I even see something similar to whom, in my view, it can benefit. But that's other accounts... [[PSD laughter.]] [[Ui!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u317	In fact, we are at risk that in a year or so we may no longer have the Minister in this position because of the continuing incineration of millions of euros by the Portuguese people. The basic question I would like to ask you — and this is the central question of my intervention — is the following: in the Budget you have planned up to 0, 3 % of GDP for the TAP this year, which is largely a value of EUR 660 million. Now, this is a fundamental issue, because we are having this discussion in April and in an anonymous society like TAP, it is natural that we already have reasonably safe indicators of the closure of the first quarter of this year. The question that I am asking you, of course, is about the closing values of the first quarter of this year — which I do not admit that they are no longer of their knowledge, at least in indicative terms — and what their relationship, in order of magnitude, with respect to the EUR 660 million provided for in the Budget, which we are discussing. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u318	Mr Hugo Carvalho, from the PS, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u319	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Ladies and gentlemen, in today's debate, a first question arises to me: why do the benches at the right hand of the PS so prejudiced against public investment which is structural for the country? This problem is not from today, it comes from the past. This was the case in the past when the PSD opposed investment in Alqueva, which today considers it to be a structural investment for cohesion and public policies in the country. They've forgotten, but we remember! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CH protests.]] This was the case in the railway when, for years on end, the PSD was in line with the de-investment and devaluation of the CP, which did not want either public or serve the public end. You've forgotten, but we're here and we remember! This was also the case recently when they voted against a tariff reduction programme, which gave justice and equality in access to transport, a structural reform.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u320	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u321	You have already forgotten, but we are here and we remember, and the Portuguese also remembered. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is with memory and without prejudice that we are facing the debate on this budget. We have to choose whether we want to be remembered by those who support the construction of road links to business reception areas or by those who do not support them. We have to choose whether we want to be on the side of those who support the links of the last kilometres of important road axes or whether we want to be on the side of those who do not support these achievements. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, using an old maximum of Physics, we really need to realize that « nothing is gained, nothing is lost, everything is transformed». Here too, in this debate, and for the country, we mean that we socialists remember, we know who we represent, and so we will continue to transform the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u322	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u323	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u324	Mr President, it was to a point of order for the Bureau. I would like to ask that the copy of the Journals of the Assembly of the Republic be distributed to this Member, of which it turns out that not only the PSD never opposed Alqueva's investment as it was in the PSD governments that this investment had a decisive advance. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u325	Mr Rui Tavares, who has one minute and 56 seconds, has the floor for the next request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u326	Mr President, Minister, if we look at a night photograph of Europe, we see that the most dynamic and productive regions of our continent are the brightest at night and we see an urban megaregion, which basically goes from Setúbal to the Crown. If anything can change in the development model of this country, we have to leverage in this urban megaregion and, therefore, if something changes for us, in the next decade, we have to connect this region with the high speed Lisbon-Porto-Vigo. The question is: is the Minister comfortable to say that, with the budget we are now discussing, the execution will not continue to be delayed? It is that the implementation of the 2020 railway is delayed. The ambition is laudable, but it cannot walk like execution. The ambition for high speed cannot walk with the speed of Vouguinha, who knows well,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u327	It's from my land!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u328	...because it's a historic train in your district, very loved, but very slow. The question that arises is whether you have confidence in how you can meet this ambition, by 2030, with the Budget you have and if then, if that does not happen, the blame will be not for the Budget, but for the execution.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u329	For a request for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Inês Sousa Real, who has 40 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u330	Mr President, Mr Minister, even in relation to TAP, outside are environmental issues,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u331	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u332	...but the transition must be made, and it was important that we clarify it today. In addition, when we talk about TAP, we need to talk about the railway connection in all district capitals. We do not have the view that the right conservative has on this subject, but we really have to talk about the importance that this link has internally. I would also like to ask you a very specific question about young people and the housing solution. A lot has been said about the lease. The Minister said that the structural solution would not only be Gate 65 and spoke about the importance of investment in the housing park. We agree, but we believe that this cannot be the only solution, because young people, like our generations, also have the right to invest in the acquisition of their own home.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u333	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u334	I really am concluding, Mr President. in this sense, Minister, I wonder whether it is available to follow the proposal that the NAP will present in relation to the bonus credit, so that young people aged between 18 and 35 can have access to the bonus interest rate, or if we are only going to have a markedly left view on this matter, with nothing more to offer to young people than renting instead of a home.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u335	Mr José Barbosa, from the PS, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u336	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Ladies and gentlemen, in the week of April 25, I remember a plaque at the Régua station, where one can read: « The railway was a revolution, so all revolutions were like this. Do not keep on seeking. ” In fact, the railway road has been and continues to be a revolution by how it approaches cities, how it binds regions, how it approaches destinations and people, as a whole country structure, and by making it less polluting. Justice is done—in spite of the right, sometimes having doubts or creating some noise due to TAP—,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u337	What right?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u338	... Minister Pedro Nuno Santos is the best Minister of Infrastructure in the post-25 April, because he actually invested in the railway. [[P.S.'s applause.]] He invested in infrastructure, electricity and train recovery—yes, the plans came out of paper—and made it simple and pragmatic, with three clear objectives: the train appears, appears at hours and appears clean. [[PSD laughter.]] When I talk about the revolution, I talk about the repair of trains, I talk about the opening of the Guifões workshop, I talk about the opening of the Figueira da Foz workshop... [[Protests from PSD Members.]] Yeah, you guys wanted to close the gate. We didn't close, we increased the workload at the Barreiro. And then they talk about junk. Yes, yes, you rented junk in Spain. No, we bought carriages, we're renovating them, we're doing the same thing the Swiss and the French do. [[PSD protests.]] Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. The carriages are being recovered by Portuguese workers and Portuguese companies, with 90 % national incorporation. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u339	The Minister has also ensured that, for the first time in history, CP will receive the contract of public service that makes the country, with the contract of public service. In recent days there have been some right-wing commentators saying that this Budget provides for the payment of the CP's debt. It's not the CP's debt, it's the CP's debt, because CP never left the country and arrived where others gave up. That's the truth. CP is receiving the money from the work you've done for decades. Indeed, in two years more than 70 vehicles, carriages and locomotives have been recovered; the suppressions have decreased from 12 000 to 2000.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u340	You don't even understand.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u341	I know your concern was more about creating a railway police force. [[CH Member's protests Filipe Melo.]] Be calm, Mr President, and let me finally tell you that Minister Pedro Nuno Santos has launched the greatest purchase of rolling stock in history, 117 trains, and has ensured that the construction of trains is done in Portugal at a factory in Matosinhos. Mr Minister, do you really think it is possible to build trains in Portugal?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u342	But someone said otherwise! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u343	Mr. Minister, today we had knowledge of the study to reopen the line to Barca d'Alva. I ask you if, during these four years, we will actually reopen it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u344	For the last request for clarification to Mr. Minister for Infrastructure and Housing, Mr. Jorge Mendes of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u345	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, in recent years, who has had the opportunity to attend our debates, some of them on—not with this partnership today, since the Minister has been very serene—, he easily identifies two marks of Minister Pedro Nuno Santos. [[Laughing.]] The first mark is that, at the first opportunity, Mr. Minister took note of his predecessor Pedro Marques. Here began the famous slogan: "Now it will be. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u346	And he's gone!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u347	The second brand is sometimes its irritant enthusiasm, when it announces us more and more investments, and often too much volunteerism and, after all, continues the weak realization of railway investments. Mr. Minister, illusions usually kill the best dreams, even in the long times of the future and with great patience.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u348	All right! [[PS Member Hugo Oliveira's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u349	But, Minister, if we consult the social communication of recent months with regard to rail, the picture is nothing, nothing pink. There are some titles: 'Government fails railway 2020 deadlines and projects spill by after 2023' ; « IP[ Infrastructures of Portugal ] and CP take away 2022 without defined leadership »; « Railway 2020 : 15 % of works completed»; « Delays in Railway 2020 make CP spend another 14,000 litres of fuel per day — the famous decarbonisation! — 'Certification of late entry into service of the carriages purchased by the CP to Renfe' — after all, they are not yet on the Mine Line, Minister; 'Douro words have been transferred to the government line' — good work! — 'Investment of the IP in the Vouga Line does not meet the commercial objectives of the CP' — of the CP! — and the last, recently, 'Attacks between candidates threaten to delay the purchase of 117 trains by CP' — of the famous 117 trains!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u350	Am I to blame, too?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u351	On this matter, we have long in advance warned of the dangers of contractualization, that is, of litigation with the administrative and fiscal courts, and so far there has been no reform. [[PS protests.]] Mr. Minister, yesterday Mr. Prime Minister spoke to us in the lyrics of Jorge Palma's song, quoting: « while there is a road to walk/ we will continue». All right, Mr. Prime Minister, but the same song has another verse that says: «What there is going to give is what I had to give». [[PSD applause.]] [[CH and IL rice.]] Therefore, Mr Minister, as your promises have been successively postponed in their realization, I and the Portuguese who are desperate for a concrete improvement in rail transport or passenger or goods, but in particular of passengers, would like to ask two very simple things, eyes in the eyes, for this House and for those who are listening to us: in 2022, exactly what are the contests that will launch in the railway? In 2022, what are the works of the railroad that will finally finish? Or are we gonna keep waiting for more of that? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u352	In order to answer with a good sense, Mr. Minister for Infrastructure and Housing has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u353	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I was now looking at the time to see if it was close to zero, but not yet, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u354	You've got 21 minutes, and then Mrs. Minister's got 20 seconds!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u355	Mr. Francisco César, I would like to thank you for your questions. With regard to public service obligations, which are fundamental to ensuring connectivity between the continent and the Azores archipelago, he knows that we are working and we will continue to do so - to ensure that public service obligations are obviously subsidized, as it is supposed. With regard to the Horta airport, a very important work was done that was completed yesterday. We have learned today, in a more accurate way, the estimate of the cost of the work and the possibility of this airport if we can apply for Community funds. We will continue to work with the Autonomous Region of the Azores to be able to respond to this ambition. As far as submarine cables are concerned, and yesterday Mr Prime Minister has already had the opportunity to say, the competition will still be launched this year and we will, at the right time, have the replacement of submarine cables, which are operating today, by new technologically more advanced cables. I would like to point out to Mr Rui Tavares that the aim, in terms of high-speed line, is even to make the connection by 2030, and we will soon present to the country the model of financing, construction and exploitation of that line. However, we are sure that we will be able to implement this great national development project. I would like to tell Mrs Inês de Sousa Real that the bonus credit is not the solution for housing in Portugal. We have not only one of the most indebted states in the world, but also, unfortunately, the most indebted families in the world. And the main reason for the indebtedness of Portuguese families is the credit to housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u356	It's the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u357	This is not the right solution to address the problems of access to housing. We no longer want Portuguese families with a debt bag until the end of their lives, we have to find other solutions. That is why we want to invest in 1. the law, for the most deprived population, but also for the population of intermediate incomes in affordable lease, and also there, the rehabilitation of the public park as a priority is the way to extend the offer of housing for our population of intermediate incomes. I would like to say to Mr Filipe Melo that the reason for the non-use of trains is not insecurity. If Mr. Filipe Melo uses, or has ever used, suburban trains, he knows they're going to land. They're full.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u358	Unfortunately!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u359	Therefore, the problem is not insecurity, it is the lack of trains and the capacity of the rail network. About insecurity and about video surveillance cameras I will also give you a new one: all suburban trains, 10, 15 years ago, have video surveillance cameras. They have three, four cameras per carriage, 10 years ago, 15 years ago. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That's not a problem! I would just like to note that your concern is already resolved, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u360	When you get into the carriage look to the left and there's the camera!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u361	I would also like to note to Mr. José Carlos Barbosa that the Douro Line is fundamental to us, that the Douro region is of the most beautiful in the world, and that one day we have to get the line to the end, to Barca d'Alva.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u362	What about Alentejo? What about the Algarve?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u363	The country has a budgetary restriction and we have to set priorities and that is where we will continue to work, to modernise our network, to expand it and, obviously, without giving up on terms, one day, the entire line of the duro electrified, modernized and in use. I would like to say to Mr. Paulo Moniz very quickly that we have negotiated with the European Commission an amount of TAP injection. Portugal is not allowed to inject even one hundred more in the airline. This concern is resolved. There is a restructuring plan that needs to be fulfilled and, to see, the restructuring plan is being successfully implemented. When the honourable Member invokes the injury we had in 2020 and 2021, it is not making any new: in the restructuring plan that was discussed and presented to the PSD Parliamentary Group even, it was always clear that we would have this level of injury in these early years. There's no news, no surprise. The only novelty that exists is that we have surpassed: EUR 1, EUR 7 billion was planned for damage in 2021 and EUR 1, EUR 6 billion, which means that we are positively overcoming the targets agreed on in the restructuring plan.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u364	And this year, this first quarter? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u365	And if you have this sympathy for me and you do not want me to be incinerated, you have a solution, which is to support me. And I am obviously counting on your support in this work. [[P.S.'s applause.]] When we rule we do not choose all the problems that fall into our hands, we have to have the ability to face them with courage, to deal with them, and that is what we are doing. The loss of losing that company was much greater for the country than the injection we are doing. And that was a decision we made and, with courage, we will continue to deal with it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u366	Mr Minister for Infrastructure and Housing, with all sympathy, the Government still has an intervention which, I imagine, will also raise many requests for clarification, so I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u367	Mr President, I am very grateful for your intervention, but I will now answer the last question in the time it is managed by the government. [[Laughing.]] I would like to tell Mr. Jorge Mendes that you have forgotten to mention, of course, the completion of the works of electrification of the Mining Line, of the line of your region, and of the Lower Beira Line, already completed. In works, on the ground, at this moment, we have: the High Beira Line, the North Line, between Espinho and Gaia, the West Line, between Meleças and Caldas, the Algarve Line, between Faro and Vila Real de Santo António, the Sine Line, the new Évora Line and Elvas. It is not « ball », as someone said, it is necessary to know what is happening in the railway, and there is virtually no line in Portugal at the moment that is not in work and running. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council knows what the decision-making and public investment process is in our country. Between the moment we decided and the moment we began to see the work on the ground we did not take less than five years: 10 months for the project contest, 14 to 24 months, between previous study and implementation project, 9 months for the environmental impact assessment and compliance of the implementation project with the DIA (Environmental Impact Statement), 12 months for the contractor contest. Here are consumed about four and a half years and there are no contests, desert contests, projects that have to come back several times until they meet the requirements of the IP, the difficulty of the sector following the financial crisis, delays in licensing... Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it takes us a year to get authorizations to cut down trees! The decision-making and public investment process is a lengthy process that requires persistence and work. That is what we are doing, and that is why we have the national rail network all in works. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u368	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now interrupt our work. The afternoon session will begin at 3 p.m. We still have about 1, 5 hours for the debate period and then the closing period. I would also like to ask all the ladies and gentlemen. Members who do not forget to exercise their right to vote in the Senate Chamber. The session is suspended. [[It was 13 hours and 18 minutes.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the galleries to the public, please. We will continue our work and, to that end, I ask everyone to create the conditions for the next speaker to be heard. [[Pause.]] Mr Pedro do Carmo, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor immediately for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u369	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members: Because of the political crisis created in 2021, the budget harvest for 2022 could not be achieved in the right time. It was not because of lack of seed, it was not because of lack of warning, but when we were to relaunch the dynamics, we were in electoral pits. Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, we've been in election. In agricultural terms, this Budget is a late harvest which seeks to respond to the challenges depending on availability. To manage is almost always that, to act according to availability, taking into account expectations. Once again, in an emergency context, with impacts on agriculture and fisheries, especially due to increased production costs and disturbances in supply chains, it is necessary to respond to the emergency. The pandemic stressed the importance of national production, agriculture and fisheries as an opportunity. The very urban perception of the rural world as a burden faded in the readiness of women and men working in agriculture and fisheries to say 'present' where others have gone away. [[P.S.'s applause.]] New steps have been taken in national awareness to strengthen resilience and enhance the productive potential of the rural world by recognizing our European integration. There is a greater national awareness of the importance of the rural world, but it is important to continue to build solutions that meet three major challenges: the problems of always, the impacts of the pandemic and the war dictated by the invasion of Ukraine by the Russian Federation and the new and future realities, risks and opportunities in which climate change points. Being a late harvest in time, it ends up being the result of a seed balance between traditional pillars and the innovation effort to strengthen the positioning in the internal market and in exports. This is also the meaning of measures to mitigate geopolitical shock, to enhance rural development, to expand efficient and sustainable irrigation, to innovate, ensuring food safety, animal and phytosanitary health, to enhance family agriculture and small producers, to support fishing, aquaculture and to strengthen access to sustainable consumption. Whoever works in the field or at sea knows that, however religious we may be, the rule is that there are no miracles. Even for a late harvest and for a time when the greater national consciousness is again crossing with an emergency framework, it takes a lot of work, a lot of determination, a lot of will and resources, without magic variables, but with a deep sense of commitment, as it must continue in line with the recent past, with what has not yet been done or with our demands resulting from this stupid war. This is an exercise of sense of responsibility and consequence based on the ambition of valuing the rural world and the sea as stages of increasingly strong human activities and tuned with sustainability. The rural world like the fishing world will once again say « present», needing our conscience, will and support to make Portugal even more resilient and with a better future. Those who try to secure the goods for our food as a community must be increasingly seen and assumed as part of the solution and never as a problem or burden. Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, the rural world and fisheries are opportunities and this budget proves it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u370	Mr Pedro do Carmo, the Bureau has made a request for clarification and has the floor of Mr Paulo Ramalho of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u371	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Dear Colleagues, I have no doubt that Mr. Pedro Carmo is willing to help agricultural production as we all do and as the PSD has. However, much of what he said does not correspond exactly to the truth and possibly not to what Peter of Carmo thinks. This budget translates into a vague, reading instrument that is difficult to understand exactly what we are talking about in terms of current expenditure, investment expenditure and future expenditure and investments. In fact, we live a period that is manifestly volatile and very uncertain. We do not know whether, in fact, the crisis we are experiencing, in relation to the prices of production factors, will be temporary or will last long. Of course, you can say that the government is doing what it can and what the European Union is leaving, but the fact is that at the moment they are at stake, as a result of the terrible increase in production, energy and fuel factors, the sustainability and competitiveness of our agricultural holdings, our agriculture.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u372	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u373	The truth is, when we compare ourselves to how our Spanish neighbors are helping their farmers, then we realize that the issue of competitiveness is really a huge challenge and, perhaps, insurmountable for Portuguese farmers.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u374	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u375	Therefore, Mr Pedro do Carmo, we have almost 90 % of the PDR2020(Rural Development Programme) implemented. However, we received more than 1000 million of the transition period to the next Community Support Framework. Has the Government guaranteed national money to allow the implementation of the funds that are planned for national agriculture or are we going to return funds due to the lack of capacity of the Portuguese Government to ensure that same national money? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u376	To reply, Mr Pedro do Carmo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u377	Mr President, Mr Paulo Ramalho, thank you very much for the question put. Indeed, it is very easy to answer this question with the following statement: we have this, of course, assured and, better still, we do not do as they did in the past, which spent more than what they had planned and made a financial hole that we had to solve. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u378	Mr Jorge Galveias, from the Czech Republic, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u379	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: Having appreciated the State budget for 2022 and, very carefully, the part devoted to social security, I have held myself, more in detail, with regard to pensions and it is only on this matter that I will make my intervention. I am not referring to the boarding houses anywhere in the country, nor to the pensions of your former Minister of Justice, Francisca Van Dunem, of €6750, or your party comrade and colleague of the Government of José Socrates, Mr.Armando Vara, of €8551. I am referring exactly to the misery with which Portuguese socialism and its great defender Dr. António Costa pay back to the elderly, to the reformers, all that they have done for Portugal throughout their lives. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u380	Mr. Prime Minister, agrees with the statement made in this House by Minister Ana Mendes Godinho that €10 increase in a pension of €278, corresponding to €0, 33 per day, make all the difference in the life of these pensioners? Yes, it corresponds to 0, 33 €! Mr. Prime Minister, will you? Do you really agree? Does the bubble in which Mr. Prime Minister as well as the members of the government live let them realize that 0, 33 € is not enough to pay 1 l of milk? Would you get Mr. Prime Minister, or the members of your government, to live with €278 per month? I don't know if it's to fool the Portuguese you talk about in annual values of 1400 €, a fantastic value, or more ridiculous, in 10 € per month. However, they do not dare to speak in 0, 33 € per day. Starting to give dignity to people would, in this sense, make a significant increase in the lowest pensions already in this State budget and bring the lowest pensions closer to the minimum wage. The Prime Minister said yesterday that social security revenues have increased by 50 % in recent years, but the rise in pensions remains ridiculously low. The Portuguese know there's money, but once again, the money's just for a few. He doesn't accept it and he won't let any pensioners stay behind. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u381	I remember all of you and all of you. Members who are still running in the Senate Chamber until 16 hours the election for different external bodies. For an intervention on behalf of the Government, Mrs. Minister of Health, Marta Temido.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u382	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let me begin by congratulating the President of the Assembly of the Republic on the matter of speaking in this House for the first time after his election. I wish you, Mr President, the greatest happiness. During the discussion of the State Budget for 2022, at the end of October, I finished my intervention, stating that we did not regret the way along, but that we knew there was a lot of ground to walk. Recent times have strengthened this idea and made it even more urgent to strengthen the network of public services which, like the National Health Service, constitutes a social protection for all people, regardless of their nationality, such as the case of 33 000 Ukrainian war refugees already enrolled in the National Health Service. They have made our understanding of our common interdependences and challenges clearer that, like the lack or migration of health professionals, are complex problems that require combined responses and extended commitments that we do not give up working to implement, because that is our responsibility to people. It is therefore with this sense of urgency and responsibility for people who today want to highlight three points in the State Budget proposal for 2022 on health. The first point concerns the recent course. After a year of 2020 marked by the international health emergency, 2021 was the year of the beginning of recovery of the care activity carried out in the National Health Service. In fact, provisional data show the growth of more than 3 million medical consultations in primary health care compared to 2020, and more than 4 million medical consultations compared to 2019. They show that hospital consultations grew more than 1 million and surgeries nearly 130 000 compared to 2020, with both cases also above the values reached in 2019. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the other hand, the provisional data of 2021 show that the special programs for recovery of the care activity postponed by the pandemic allowed only in this context in 2021, about 65 000 consultations, first hospital consultations, and 43 000 additional surgeries. In the area of population-based cancer screenings, the same provisional data show that the number of women screened for breast cancer and the number of screenings for colon cancer and rectum again exceeded the 2019 values, a clear indicator of recovery of access to preventive care. The effort undertaken by the National Health Service for the recovery of care activity was progressively revealed in all areas, while at the same time continued to respond to the needs resulting from the pandemic, including the vaccination process, just to remember that by the end of December 2021, 88% of the population aged over 80 had already performed their vaccination reinforcement. These results were especially possible due to the investment in health professionals. In 2021, the SNS had about 148 000 professionals, a net increase of 24 % plus 28 454 effective vis-à-vis December 2015, an increase of more than 3836 effective vis-à-vis December 2020, a year earlier. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The second point I want to highlight today concerns the allocation of the Health Budget. Compared to last year's initial budget, the initial budget for 2022 increases more than 700 million euros, 6, 7 %, a value above the expected growth for GDP. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But it increases further if we consider that the implementation of 2021 was marked by conjunctural pressures resulting from the fight against the pandemic, which are estimated at around EUR 1, 3 billion, and that the reduction of these pressures will allow an increase in expenditure of 10 % compared to the provisional amount of 2021. The 2022 Budget reflects a choice that began in 2015 and which results in an increase of more than 3250 billion euros of investment in the sector. It is a choice that allowed the value of late SNS payments to record the lowest levels last year since there are consolidated data. It is a choice for the robustness of public health services. The third, and last, point that I would like to highlight in the proposal of the State Budget is the health path to 2022. This Budget reflects our commitment to improving the health of residents in Portugal. The Recovery and Resilience Plan, with reforms and investments exceeding EUR 1, EUR 3 billion, the new Statute of the National Health Service, with the regime of full dedication, with the executive direction, with public participation in health, and the new National Health Plan for the 2030 horizon, currently in public consultation, pave the way for a set of measures focused on eight axes around which the strategy of the Government's Programme up to 2026 is structured, with concrete measures for 2022. First, I stress the principle that health begins at home, that the greatest investment in health is that we make in education, housing, decent work and in all social determinants of health. Therefore, we will continue the work of the Priority Health Programs and Healthy Neighborhoods Program. Secondly, the principle of having a right to health is to have access to the National Health Service, with measures to overcome financial barriers, cultural barriers, social and economic barriers. Here, I would like to stress that, from June onwards, except in the non-referred emergency or non-originating hospitalization, the collection of moderate fees will end in all the services of the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Thirdly, the promotion of proximity health, with priority to primary health care and network work, with all the structures that in the community can allow better responses, especially community pharmacies and municipalities. Fourthly, the strengthening of the network functioning of public hospitals, with the hospital reference networks that regulate the relationships of functional complementarity between services to be reviewed this year, being the autonomy of the management of the units and the internal organization of the teams exercised in this framework. Fifthly, the axis that, in an ageing population, the intervention of health services has to focus on restoring autonomy and supporting serious and incurable disease. In 2022, we will move forward to the first day units and promote autonomy and strengthen Community support teams in palliative care. Sixth place, the axis that there is no good health without good mental health. This year, two of the four hospital units that were missing in general hospitals, six of the old hospital units, will be installed, the operation of 10 new community mental health teams and the Regional Plans of Health for Dementies on the ground will begin. Seventh, the satisfaction of health professionals with the collective bargaining work with the representative structures of workers in new careers and the improvement of the others to be prepared to begin. Finally, I refer to the axis of governance, with the creation of the executive direction of the SNS with the mission of driving at the central level, coordinating the care response of its health units, ensuring its network functioning and monitoring its performance and response.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u383	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u384	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the improvement of access to health care, in particular the allocation of a family health team to all residents, and the satisfaction with the working conditions in the National Health Service are, in terms of health, our central concerns. The complexity of the problems leads us not to underestimate them and to know that we need combined measures to deal with them. This Budget takes important steps in this regard: regains the autonomy of hiring, strengthens respect for professional careers, encourages the full dedication regime. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have the exact understanding of how much is to be done, how much is expected of us, of what we depend on. That is why we present this Budget to you. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u385	The Minister has nine requests for clarification, which she will answer in two blocks. For a first request for clarification, Mr Luís Soares of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u386	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Health, this budget adds EUR 700 million for health to meet the needs of Portuguese people. In fact, it is a budget that, like what has happened in the past six years, since the Socialist Party is in power, recovers the National Health Service and the resources it needs to respond to the Portuguese. This factuality no party on the left or on the right can contradict. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u387	But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, can't you say that the budget is smaller, what do the parties say to our right? That the Socialist Party is dumping money into the National Health Service and that this does not solve the problems of the Portuguese. Now, you have to explain, here, if you hire more professionals, value the career of professionals, build new health units, expand the National Network of Integrated Continued Care, if this is to shed money in the National Health Service, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! [[P.S.'s applause.]] More, sirs. Members, unable to respond to this criticism, because it is obvious that the Socialist Party is converging with the average expenditure of the European Union, they say something else: the National Health Service is not effective and is not responding to Portuguese. Let's look at two indicators. First, the mortality rate. Is it more or less dead in Portugal than in the European Union? He dies less. Second, average life expectancy. Does Portugal live more or less than on the European Union average? Live longer. So if you spend less than the average of the European Union in Portugal, if you live more and if you die less, how can you say that the National Health Service is not effective, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen? [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is effective and responds to the needs of the Portuguese! But we're going to the third criticism, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. They say parties to our right, and sometimes to our left, that citizens do not trust the National Health Service. Now, just look—and it is not necessary to be this bench to say—for the last OECD report ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development) on the state of health in Portugal, which says that Portuguese rely on the National Health Service. More, he says that when referring to the National Health Service, in time, in distance and at cost, Portuguese are satisfied and know that the National Health Service is suitable to respond to their needs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u388	Because they don't have any money to go to private!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u389	Conclusion, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister said there's ground to walk. What we want to leave here is not a question, but a compromise: the commitment of this whole bench, which knows that Portuguese people need a Socialist Party with certain policies, also in the National Health Service, to defend this fundamental instrument of equality which is this construction that we have done in recent years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u390	For a request for clarification, Mrs. Joana Mortágua of BE has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u391	Mr President, Minister of Health, the Government has refused to debate this Budget with the left. The PS propagates the most progressive budget ever, which is ridiculous, to me that I have only voted budgets since 2015. The fact is that the Government prefers to discuss this budget in terms of the right, taking advantage of the obsession with budgetary consolidation, control of deficit and debt control as an end in itself, which may be very useful in order to eliminate the weak liberal social concerns, but it is very short to respond to the country. The right accounts do not hide that the government has abandoned the undertaking of a family doctor for all. There is no contradiction in that. The right accounts do not hide that the government does not want to debate a health service that increasingly transfers resources to the private because that would be the discussion on the left. We also know how to do, and therefore we know that it is impossible to fulfill the promise of more professionals, more family doctors, more career development, more career development and even more wage increases with only 1 % for staff spending on the health program. In a year when inflation is likely to exceed 4 %, the Minister will have to explain how an increase of only 1 % with health personnel is actually not a cut. In fact, what the accounts tell us — and they are right — is that transfers to the National Health Service will grow below inflation. That is why I ask you, Minister : if we subtract 4 % of inflation at 3, 7 % of budgetary strengthening of transfers to the National Health Service, what is the result? And I anticipate the answer: the result is negative, the result is suborbitation. The Socialist Party may think that this is the mandate given to it by the absolute majority, but it is wrong. The government will want to flee this debate, will want to turn right, will want to whistle on the side, but this debate will have to do on the left and will have to do with the Left Block. [[Protests of PS Members.]] This is because de-investment in the National Health Service will lead to the continued delivery of more SNS parcels to the private. Today the exams, tomorrow the surgeries, then the health centers, will always be an excuse for showing that it is budgetaryly more efficient any convention, any outsourcing, any privatization.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u392	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u393	I will finish, Mr. President. This is the way of the dismantling of the SNS, that is the way of the deepening of inequalities, that is the path that the right will applaud, but not the Left Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u394	For a request for clarification, Mrs Joana Cordeiro of the IL has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u395	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of Health, access to health has difficulties that we all know, but that, with this Budget— and with more than 700 million euros— the Government seems to want to ignore: block layoffs, excuses for responsibility, closed emergencies, cancer diagnoses that have been under way, endless waiting lists. Those who have no alternative know these difficulties well, which result from a statistical management. Portugal is from countries where people spend the most on health, in addition to paying taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u396	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u397	Your ideological obsession, Mrs. Minister, in not renewing PPPs (public-private partnerships) excludes from the most efficient equation and, more seriously, excludes from access to health the most disadvantaged, who do not have alternatives when needed. Why does it insist on maintaining the current system, which only refers to the private and social sectors the patients who have long been beyond the waiting times, and does not invest in a true link between the various sectors? Is the government available to review health management, giving people freedom of choice?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u398	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u399	I ask you, too, why is it critical that you know: what concrete and timed measures for an effective recovery of the care activity? You can tell us that the number of consultations and surgeries has already recovered the pre-pandamy values, but I remind you, then, that by then, waiting times have reached unacceptable and incompatible values with what is expected from a quality access to health. This objective cannot be to recover the prepandemic values. Those were already bad and that's nothing more than leveling down. More ambition is needed and access to consultations and surgeries is always within the maximum guaranteed response time. More: Does the Minister really believe that the full dedication regime will be part of the solution? His predecessor, Prof. Adalberto Campos Fernandes, said in this regard: "It is merely a political impulse. Doctors don't like ties and the truth is they're not the ones that make productivity grow. » It is a person’s warning — it will agree with me — unsuspecting. This is not the way, Minister! It was only necessary for the Government to move forward to compulsory exclusivity, which, in our view, would be completely unacceptable. Is that your intention? Mrs. Minister, more than throwing money on the problem,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u400	There it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u401	... imports a strategic reflection on the management model we have today in the SNS. Why does the government insist on not contradicting this model which is defective and where investment never becomes efficient? There are alternative ways, Mrs. Minister, but, with this Budget, we have no choice, less hope or better health! [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u402	For a request for clarification, you have the floor of Ms. Cláudia Bento, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u403	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Health, the lack of family doctors in health care in Portugal is not a novelty, it is a situation that has worsened in recent years. Today there are 1 million and 200,000 users who do not have a family doctor — a number that is higher than 2015 when the PS took over the government. In September 2016, Prime Minister António Costa established the fascia, although not fulfilled, and I quote: «We are not conformed and we will continue to work for, within a year, we can say that there has ceased to be Portuguese without access to a family doctor. Do not keep on seeking. ” Again, in 2019, this promise was re-equated by the then Secretary of State Dr. Raquel Duarte, and again it was not completed. The pandemic came in, but before the COVID-19, the truth is that this goal was already far from being met and, while promising the unlikely, the number of patients without a family doctor increased, did not decrease. It is a high number that the government cannot decrease, it cannot solve and for which it cannot find a solution. The truth is, just like Prime Minister António Costa himself admitted, the government has failed to meet that goal. This problem affects all regions of the country, but has greater impact in the region of Lisbon and Tejo Valley, where approximately two thirds of users do not have a family doctor. It was reported yesterday that, in the Braganza district, there is a lack of family doctors due to the retirement of these clinicians. There is a lack of care for clinicians in this district, a district that was previously known as one of the regions with the highest coverage rate at the national level. Currently, there are approximately 5000 general and family medicine doctors and it is expected that during this year, approximately 1000 clinicians will be reformed. Therefore, the deficit situation continues to worsen and we navigate in Titanic mode. In the proposal of the State Budget for 2022, for this theme the Government seems to have put the towel to the floor. It does not present a strategy for the fulfilment of the mission — that of assigning a family doctor to all users — and no longer works to establish a temporary goal. As the proverb says, «cold cat of cold water is afraid». I would like to leave the following questions to the Minister, since during her speech she maintained this lack of commitment. Why don't you say right now that we're going to have a family doctor for every Portuguese? Will it be for caution? Why did you finally learn not to promise what you can't fulfill? Will it be a lack of ambition? Will there be a lack of ability to find a solution? And by the way, what will be the real incentives to make this career attractive? We remember that the absolute majority represents total responsibility and we will be here to remember what was a promise of today and of always this Executive, but that so far is to be concluded. More than a promise, it is a necessity, so it is necessary that it be completed. Nor can I mention that because of the pandemic, there has been a breakdown of primary health care activity, which has left thousands of patients without diagnosis and thousands of chronic patients without follow-up. In 2021, the numbers of the present consultations are still far from pre-pandemic values. In 2019, official data indicated more than 20, 7 million presence consultations, while in 2021, this number was only 15 million. This is a time that requires a significant reinforcement of professionals in order to recover consultations, examinations and deferred procedures. Madam Minister, it is the duty of the Government to protect Portuguese citizens in health care as well as the right to continuous assistance. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u404	To answer this first set of questions, you have the floor of Mrs. Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u405	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Joana Mortágua, said that we have no choice but to discuss this Budget with the left. We have quite discussed this Budget with the left! In fact, this is a left-wing budget and there is nothing that bothers me more than the feeling that the left-wing heritage is just a panagio of some. We continue to bet on improving the National Health Service and on the goal that it is necessary to ensure a family health team to all Portuguese. He's not just a family doctor, he's a family health team. It is not an opportunistic change of speech, it is a change of real strategy based on what is learning that we have from the evolution of other countries, in what are the conversations we have had with our professionals, with the sector. It is worth recalling that today we have in fact the same number of Portuguese without a family doctor as we had in 2015, but we have 439 000 more enrolled in the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I repeat, we have another 439 000 registered in the National Health Service, for example, more 33 000 returning citizens from Ukraine. We have 800 more family doctors in the National Health Service than we had in 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u406	Where are they? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u407	Emigration!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u408	We have another 1200 nurses and it is worth stressing that, when we talk about family health team, we also talk about nurses. And I rarely hear this Hemicycle says that we went through family nurse coverage from 69% to 85%. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So, as I have tried to mention in my speech, this is a complex problem. Just think of what the debates in recent elections in France have been to hear the word « medical desert» echo in our brain. Just read what's going on in Canada, in the United Kingdom, a bit everywhere, to realize that the shortage of health professionals is something that all health systems face. But it is worth remembering that we do not give up on improving what our people care for, despite the difficulties.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u409	We need to invest in the system!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u410	Regarding the issue of health expenditure, I would like to recall that the expenditure we planned for 2022 has the impact of the reduction potential associated with the reduction of expenditure with COVID-19. It is worth recalling that, in human resources alone, we spent 338 million euros last year on the provision of COVID care! A part of the strike that we need to resume to improve the satisfaction and motivation of health professionals is explained here. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Because there isn't, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, other than to free up expenditure, to free up idle spending, to generate efficiency to channel resources to other places where they are most important. That's what we're trying to do, but not with ideological battles, although we don't deny our ideology, our choices and our matrix. With regard to statistical obsession, there is no statistical obsession, Mrs. Joana Cordeiro. It is enough to say that last year we transferred EUR 1000 million to the private sector to pay for complementary diagnostic and therapeutic means, because we are particularly interested in meeting the needs of patients. [[P.S.'s applause.]] of these, 200 million euros were almost all channelled for COVID-19 tests! With regard to the articulation, indeed, what we have fought for is a true articulation. The sector is much more articulated than what one can imagine, and this is shown at difficult times, rather than what is often the alarm of this ideological struggle that little actually helps to the interests of the users. Regarding the question of waiting times, I would like to recall that they improved, despite all the difficulties, last year. It was possible to ensure that about 80% of the consultations had been conducted within the maximum guaranteed response time and that the area of prevention had improved response despite the difficulties we faced. I would like to take this opportunity to stress that this year, the recovery of present consultations in primary health care already has an increase of 38 %. Regarding the theme of full dedication, it is not confused — I fear so many times — with exclusive dedication. What we want is to reward performance and, therefore, we will not comment on the issues of who continues to feed equality between exclusive dedication and full dedication, because that is not what is intended. This has never been in our objectives and we believe that this regime, which will be negotiated with trade union structures, will contribute to improving the satisfaction of professionals and the response to users. For Bragança, I just wanted to conclude by saying that it has 94% coverage by family doctor. Of course, 6 % of users who do not have a family doctor are concerned, but here we are working to fill these vacancies in this competition. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u411	For a request for clarification, Mrs. Joana Lima has the floor of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u412	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Ladies and gentlemen, this is the budget that the Portuguese have chosen. It is a Budget that follows the trajectory of six years ago, of strengthening the SNS, of more investment in health and, at the same time, of certain accounts, reducing in a sustained way the debt of the National Health Service. Furthermore, in 2020, the SNS has recorded the lowest level of always late payments since there are records. That is why the Socialist Government has not failed the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u413	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u414	It did not fail the Portuguese when in 2021 we had a growth of about 3 million and 500 thousand medical consultations in primary health care. It did not fail the Portuguese when, last year, we had an increase of medical-hospital consultations of about 1 million and 300 thousand. It did not fail the Portuguese when last year the surgical activity grew more than 22 % in the previous year. It did not miss the Portuguese when we had an increase of health professionals from about 29 000 to 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It did not fail the Portuguese when the investment in health did not stop growing, either in installations or in equipment, or in investment in people. But he did not miss our children when he ordered to build the new pediatric wing of the Hospital de S. João, which is already at the service of our boys and our girls. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yes, because it was this government that threw the stone, built the work and put all the conditions there for our children! He did not miss the Portuguese when he reinforced the entire SNS, thus giving more and better access to the health of the Portuguese. This Government has fulfilled and will continue to fulfil this budget. It continues to fulfil the increase in investment, continues to perform in more health professionals and in better working conditions. It continues to fulfil when it presents EUR 1000 million to allocate the improvement of SNS infrastructures. This Government continues to meet when it presents a budget of EUR 13 500 million for health, plus EUR 4500 million compared to 2015. This government continued to comply when it initiated an attitude of proximity, of dialogue with professional associations, with unions and with living health forces. Therefore, Madam Minister, before I ask you my question, I cannot finish without leaving you a thank you for everything you have done for health in Portugal, from the pandemic to today, for your courage, resilience, competence and for your humanism. That is what the Portuguese think of you, Mrs. Minister, of your work, of your employment, of how you have managed health in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Madam Minister, in the dialogue that you have begun with the health partners, can you tell us what the opening on their part, but also on the part of the government, so that we can all together have a better SNS? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u415	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not want to be insistent, but I would like to remind you that it is 10 minutes to close the polls for the election of representatives of the Assembly of the Republic to external bodies. You now have the floor for a request for clarification, Mr Frazão, of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u416	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs. Minister of Health, after this public report session,... [[PS protests.]] ... unfortunately, I'm going to have to give you some bad news. It is that this Budget is a basic life support budget, but without prospects for resuscitation. In fact, from the perspective of arriving, SNS is a corpse that Mr. Minister is trying to vent, but it will not succeed in its resuscitation. Otherwise, let us see: in this budget for the health of the Portuguese, the government is promising again, and promising again what it knows it cannot fulfill. It promises more health units, without taking into account the enormous inflation in the construction sector and the increase in construction materials. My first question, very concrete, is whether this government commits itself, even with the construction of the hospitals of Eastern Lisbon, of the Sixal, the center of Alentejo, the central of the Algarve... There are many first stones scattered by the country, but there is a need to do the work! [[Congrats from the CH.]] I could also talk about the promised requalifications. Mrs. Minister, I can refer to the requalifications in Póvoa de Varzim / Vila do Conde, Tondela-Viseu, motherhood of Coimbra, IPO ( Portuguese Institute of Oncology ), in Lisbon, São Bernardo, in Setúbal. All promised requalifications that are not made. What really is this? This is propaganda, Minister. They also promise the creation, as the Minister mentioned, of the new executive leadership. My second concrete question, Mrs. Minister, is: more executive directions exactly for what? Only if it is to create more charges and more places for the PS boys, Minister... [[PS protests.]] Are you going to create more directions, more places of direction? No, no, no. It also promises more exams, more surgeries, more queries, more screenings. Mrs. Minister, I can refer to the example of the three worst hospitals in Portugal : Faro, Santarém, whose electoral circle I am elected, and the Hospital de São Bernardo. In Santarém, people wait 800 days for vascular surgery and, on average, 400 days for general surgery.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u417	They can die!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u418	How is that possible, Minister? Why does the Government not agree with the proposal of the Arrival, an automatic passage from the patient to the social sector, or to the particular sector, in all specialist consultations, diagnostic examinations and surgeries, provided that the maximum waiting periods set by the Government itself are exceeded? Oh, my God! Another incredible standard of this State budget is to ignore public-private partnerships on a whole basis, when a report from the Court of Auditors on PPPs concluded that the private management of the four PPP hospitals generated effective savings for the State in 230 million euros. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The Court of Auditors' report goes further and states that, without models equal to PPPs in health, « the SNS will not be able to generate the efficiency gains needed to continue investing in its future ». Mr. Minister, this bench of arriving represents 400 000 votes of the Portuguese. I asked you four concrete questions, I repeat, four. I want you to answer, please. This Budget is the Budget that sends the SNS body to the morgue, once and for all, Mrs. Minister. Call the funeral. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u419	I now give the floor to a request for clarification to Mr João Dias of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u420	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister of Health, this Budget does not meet the needs that are placed in the SNS. This Budget does not respond to the serious problem of leaving public health professionals for the private sector, especially with regard to doctors and nurses, and thus leaves thousands of Portuguese without a family doctor, without consultations, without exams, without surgeries, without treatments, basically, we are denying them the right to health. This budget does not serve to improve the conditions of health professionals, either in hospitals or in our health centers. This budget does not serve to respond to the problems of health professionals' careers, to ensure a public bond, to ensure professional careers and the integration of professionals in conditions that allow their progression and promotion. We need a budget that addresses the serious problems that Portuguese people face in order to have access to health care. There is no mechanism in this Budget that guarantees family doctor and primary health care for all! In this Budget, there are no effective ways of recovering waiting lists, either in surgeries, exams, treatments, and finally in the most various areas. And, as far as the autonomy of health institutions is concerned, it is not understood how it is possible, with so much lack of health professionals, to have a Budget that limits contracts, if there is an increase in the number of workers. The institutions are prevented from executing the increase of workers, by this way imposed by the Budget. Mrs Minister, I ask you three questions: why does the Government refuse solutions to the precariousness and wage recovery and careers of all health professionals, including accounting for all points for progression? I ask you why does the Government refuse to implement a regime of exclusive dedication, underlining, of exclusive dedication, of an optional nature, with increase in remuneration and progress?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u421	There are no words!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u422	Why does the Government, Mrs Minister, refuse to strengthen incentives for the establishment of health care professionals in the areas where there is a shortage of care? And from the point of view of investments, among several gaps, it is not understood how the investment in this budget disappears in the new building of the Lisbon IPO, which was in the 2021 budget and which disappears from the 2022 budget. In conclusion, we do not find in this Budget a compromise with the SNS, Mrs Minister. in this sense, Ms. Minister, says the CFP : it is necessary to ensure that the budget of the Ministry of Health effectively serves to strengthen the National Health Service and not to divert resources to the privates of the disease business. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u423	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u424	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs. Minister of Health, with 38 seconds of time, to use judiciously, I am going to a problem that the Minister knows well, that is not resolved and then with a category of health professionals essential to the health services we want to provide to the Portuguese, and a category of health workers who need respect and dignity in their careers: nurses who perform leadership functions. Following the nursing career reform, when they cease their leadership functions, these nurses have been repositioned below the specialist nurses, who had to be — them and them — to be nurses in leadership functions. Question : When these functions are completed, how will they be positioned, from now on, in terms of remuneration and career? How long are you gonna wait until you're a new specialist nurse? Is this State budget that will solve this problem or is the Minister available to work with the Free, in order to solve it?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u425	For the last request for clarification, Mr Pedro Melo Lopes, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u426	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, other members of the Government, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Minister of Health, I come to this House today to talk about health and a state budget that promises a lot, but does not comply with or respond to the most basic of the assumptions. How are the Portuguese, with this State Budget, to have more and better health? It's a case to say, sirs. Members, that health in Portugal is not in good health and, unfortunately, it is not this State budget that hopes for treatment, much less cure. [[PSD applause.]] Every day I see colleagues complaining about the chaos that they live in emergencies; every day they open news with resignations from directors of service, with resignations from team leaders who claim only two things, working conditions and valuing their career. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u427	Every day we see more cases of burnout among health professionals and, I say, with great pride, because I live among them, these health professionals, Mrs. Members of the government are much more resilient than you think. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u428	This State budget reveals one thing, among many, that is a lack of strategy. Lack of strategy to provide coverage of family physicians to all Portuguese, lack of strategy for more prevention and better health promotion, lack of clear strategy for having more dental medical consultations in primary health care, as well as consultations on psychology and nutrition—I do not know in which country they live, but sometimes in some health centers, it takes four years to have a consultation of these. [[PSD applause.]] There's one thing that still shocks me more in this Budget. It is that no one in this State budget is concerned about the demographic consequences; no one is concerned about the ageing of the population;... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u429	... nobody is concerned about the increase in the burden of disease that this will cause; nobody is concerned about how we will treat our elderly, increasingly sick and increasingly dependent. But I assure you, the PSD is here! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u430	I'm glad you're here now!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u431	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, speaking in strategy, or in the absence of it, I cannot help but speak of the one who is the greatest socialist ambush in health planning: the construction of new hospitals. Yes, this State Budget, like those that already presented us in 2016, in 2017, in 2018, and out there, contemplates the construction of six new hospitals. I'll repeat: six new hospitals! Only if they forget to reveal the value to be attributed to each unit and, more important than that, they do not commit themselves either with deadlines of work or with goals of completion. We all agree that these units are priority, which we do not agree with, and we cannot agree, is the way these promises have been made and have not been fulfilled. [[PSD applause.]] We are going to the chronological facts: in 2006, Minister Correia de Campos said the Algarve hospital was the second most urgent public-private partnership. Meanwhile, the PS and the left ended the public-private partnerships. In 2008, Minister Ana Jorge, accompanied by Prime Minister José Socrates, spent 50 000 € on a public ceremony to launch the Algarve hospital and promised its conclusion in 2009.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u432	First stones there are many! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u433	In 2016, however, the Secretary of State at that time had already said that it was not the Algarve that was priority, it was Évora and Seixal. But in 2022, not one, not another. In 2020, Minister Marta Temid appointed 2021 as the final deadline for its implementation. It's just, we don't know why, in the State Budget for 2021, the Algarve hospital left the plans. But we're going to Coimbra's motherhood, up there. Prof. Adalberto Campos Fernandes authorized the start of the construction. It is an election promise by Prime Minister António Costa, in 2015 ; it is once again the electoral flag of Minister Marta Temido, in 2019 ; in the authorships, in 2021, the Prime Minister says, in Coimbra : « prays to whom it hurts, we cannot take more than three weeks to solve this problem». It's just, Mrs. Minister and Mrs. Government members should only be hurting the population of Coimbra because if it were you who were in pain, the matter was already settled. [[PSD applause.]] But there's more! In Lisbon, the Eastern Lisbon hospital was promised in 2017.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u434	In 2017? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u435	It is EUR 300 million in a work that has not yet been awarded. It has not even been awarded and, considering the advances and withdrawals and the construction time, no longer to speak in the spillage, we will hardly have hospital in 2025. What the PSD comes here today to ask the Socialist Party is that it is only more serious and stricter in its proposals. What we want, Mrs Minister, is that you commit yourself here, today and now, to the Portuguese who need more and better care and better conditions to be treated. We want to know, in good rigour—because it is strictly because we know how to be in public life—what are the funds for each hospital unit, what are the deadlines for the construction and completion of these new hospitals. And no, Mrs. Minister, don't come and tell us about Sintra's hospital, because this is being built with the money of the monks, since the government has again failed the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u436	Not a word about your district!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u437	In reply, Mrs. Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u438	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Pedro Melo Lopes, even in poetry alone is that God wants, man dreams and the work is born. Between us, it takes a little longer. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u439	Since 2015!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u440	But to the extent that time allows me — I will do so — I will certainly, with more specificity in the debate that we are going to have — I will give you notice of each of these hospitals, of how they are and of what value they are associated with. Let's start with the new Eastern Lisbon hospital, whose associated value is EUR 334 million, in a public-private partnership,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u441	Are you happy already? It's a PPP! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u442	... and we plan to award for July this year. The jury is making the final report. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u443	You have to say when it started!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u444	I am not going to say now when it began, because of a matter of time saving. As for the nearby hospital of Sintra, it is in fact a partnership between the municipality and the Ministry of Health. I think you have no problem with the partnerships. [[PSD protests.]] It is an investment of EUR 76 million, a part of which is an investment in work — EUR 44 million — by the municipality, and another part — EUR 21 million — by the Ministry of Health or, on the other hand, by the Recovery and Resilience Programme, which you did not like either. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to the Sixal hospital, it is an investment of EUR 53 million. It was launched in 2018 and was then challenged, but we managed to have a decision in favour of the state last month. We'll be able to carry out the project. Yes, we have rules, rules which are also widely known, for which we have also had extensive discussions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u445	Yes, there are rules!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u446	... and on which, perhaps, it is worth reflecting, not throwing anathemas of suspicion over who does the public work, but actually thinking about the issues that we have around this work. [[P.S.'s applause.]] He did not ask by the new central hospital of Alentejo, he asked by the new hospital of Algarve. This hospital had the competition suspended in 2011 and since then several governments have gone through it and have not looked back at the trial.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u447	It started in 2006!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u448	We have come back, and we have looked at the process in the sense of, considering the investment made in its preparation, considering the maintenance of the public interest in the construction and considering the legal specific framework for a decision not to award, we try to realize — and the technical and legal work has been complex — whether or not it is feasible to take advantage of the process. What I can tell you is that this is a political commitment that we will honour, as we have honored others, even if it remains more than we would like.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u449	15 years ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u450	About the motherhood of Coimbra, the project is being implemented, predicting the beginning of construction, I believe, for the beginning of 2025. Regarding the new hospital in Setúbal, the proposals were received this week and we thought that the work would start at the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u451	What about Seixal?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u452	Six, I've already spoken. They weren't paying attention, I'm sorry. I believe that I have answered the questions about hospitals and I am then available for further specifications. On the issue of strategy, as has already been said in this House today, I will say that strategy is a word that is sometimes used for many things that we are not interested in. Look, for example, I could say that there was a lack of strategy when, in the 1980s, a set of governments did not allow a number of students to enter Medicine today that would allow us to have more doctors. That would be strategy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Unfortunately, we don't have a time machine. [[PSD protests.]] On the question of Mr João Dias, on the right to health, yes, the Government is available for all solutions to combat precariousness. It is worth stressing that the article that refers to a limitation on the number of workers to be admitted has to do with the issue of the right term contracts and constitutes a limitation to this precariousness. It is also worth noting that the activities and budget plans of the EPE hospitals (enterprise public authorities) — last year, 12 were approved and we hope to be able to approve them all — have more flexibility than this article contains. With regard to the regime of full dedication, of which we have already spoken, our answer is yes, Mrs Joana Lima. We have worked with the representative structures of the workers, we have more meetings scheduled and there are a set of priority aspects that we believe can be implemented,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u453	Now it is! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u454	... which are related to the work of nurses, the full dedication, the career of health assistant technicians and a set of other questions. Finally, with regard to Mr Rui Tavares' questions, we are, of course, available to discuss this issue as well, which resulted from the last revision of the nursing career with trade union structures. In reply to Mr Frazão's question, no, I do not believe that the SNS is a corpse and, moreover, has already used it at some point in his life. It is worth answering the four questions you raised. On requalifications, the answer is yes, there are commitments with all, with the awareness that works do not always run as we would like. As far as executive direction is concerned, I do not have the same idea of the state as some of the Members. Members have and therefore I believe in the state, believe in public services, believe in public servants and not in a culture of calling those who come for public life. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u455	That was four questions!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u456	With regard to the proposal to automatically pass checks to those who exceed the maximum guaranteed response times, there are already surgical checks.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u457	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u458	Often they are not accepted by users and often they are not accepted by private operators, who do not perform the same procedures. But, as we have said, we do not live in a National Check Health Service, we believe in another more strategic conception of health. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u459	For an intervention, Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto, of the Liberal Initiative, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u460	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Over the course of yesterday and today, I have heard some references from several banks at the single rate proposed by the Liberal Initiative and how this would empty the social state. This is a perception that is confusing with the reality and experience of several countries in the European Union, which have implemented a single rate or two rates. Almost without exception, all these countries have grown more than Portugal and, on the occasion of the growth of the economy, tax revenues and wages have also increased, all wages. I know that this is too complex a conversation to have here, I know that it will take a long time to convince you of this, but, if we disagree on this point, there is one with which I am sure that we all agree, which is the following: a person who, outside, earns half of our base salary, as Members, does not qualify as a millionaire, does not qualify as rich and hardly qualifies, even as middle class at European level. A person who earns half of our base salary as deputies is an uprooted person. Because these workers are uprooted, Mr. Members are, in this proposal for a State budget, spread over five different steps, and in the last step they already have a marginal rate of 35 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u461	Marginal? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u462	These uprooted people are people who earn 800 €, 900 €, 1000 €, 1100 €, 1300 € liquid, maximum. Yeah, the challenge I'm putting here to all the benches, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is what we join in a proposal not of a single rate, but of a single rate for all people whose income is less than half our basic income, as Members, a single rate for all people who earn less than half what we earn here, without the supplements. Together, let's extend the limit of the first step of IRS to all people who earn less than half of us.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u463	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u464	If your problem with the single rate is the relief of those who earn the most, then I know you will not reject this challenge. We will relieve all people who earn less than half of what we earn, who are already with an inflation of 7, 2 %. We're talking about civil servants, private employees, green receipt workers. These are the people we're talking about, the workers we've been working on. I understand that they do not agree with a single rate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u465	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u466	...but do you accept a single fee for all the workers in this country? Are we gonna do that? [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u467	Mr President, the Bureau records the inclusion of Mrs Alexandra Leitão of the PS for a request for clarification and to that end I give the floor to Mrs Alexandra Leitão.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u468	Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mrs and Mrs Members, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, the Liberal Initiative has a real obsession with the tax system, and it does not admire.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u469	Well, we do!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u470	No wonder, because they do not like a budget that guarantees the social rule of law. They want a budget that has their radical liberalism of'saves those who can' and forget that the tax system also serves to finance what we all need: the National Health Service, the public school, social support, job dignity, business support, increased public investment. The concern of the Liberal Initiative with the employees of the Public Administration is indeed worthy, but frankly, it confuses me, because, if the ideas of the Liberal Initiative triumphed, there would be no workers of the Public Administration. It would be outsourced to the private and therefore there would be no public administration workers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u471	There would be no public school teachers, there would be no public school, there would be no health professionals, because there was no National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u472	That daddy!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u473	Yes, yes, there would be a minimum number of public administration workers for a minimum state. Having regard to the fact that the social state is financed by taxes, which also have a redistributive function, I would ask you, honourable Member, to clarify the following request for clarification: in view of this obsession with the reduction of taxes, where is the progressiveity, where is the redistributive function of the tax system? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u474	Stay in the boss's pocket!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u475	To reply, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u476	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me clarify the following: with this proposal that I put forward for the workers who are uprooted, for the workers who earn less than half of what we have earned here, the tax revenue in 2022 would still be higher than 2021. Therefore, nothing would be called into question. [[Applause from the IL.]] The only answer I needed from all the benches was 'yes' or 'no', and I did not have it. What this lack of response proves is that your problem with the single rate, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not with the rich,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u477	It's with injustice!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u478	...what you want is to have more and more tax revenue. [[Applause from the IL.]] It is that if this were not the case, they would accept my challenge to tax-degrading uprooted workers, who earn less than half as much as anyone in this House. This is what we should be concerned about. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u479	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Patrícia Faro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u480	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, other members of the Government, Faces and Dear Members: We live times of uncertainty, with scenarios of exception, atypical, which have challenged us to respond quickly, but also with confidence and stability, to all emerging needs and problems arising from a pandemic, for which we are still alert, and now aggravated by an armed conflict scenario in Europe. The Government of the Socialist Party has been and is in line with these challenges, because the needs of each and every one are important, because we value proximity, empathy. in this assumption, significant steps have been taken in the support and follow-up of people who are in a situation of special vulnerability. We speak of all people, regardless of gender or age. We speak of equality and non-discrimination, because we believe that equality and non-discrimination are essential conditions for the construction of a sustainable future for Portugal, as a country that effectively respects human rights and ensures the full participation of all and all. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is that, Dear and Dear Members, public policies constitute instruments and strategies of political action, fundamental to solving social problems, and open ways for action that best respond to the needs and vulnerabilities of each person, community or territory, but printing a real basic transformative action depends on how we look at these matters. And the commitment to achieving equal opportunities for all people depends on the ideological matrix that enables us to achieve this desire. So, and because we are talking today about the State budget, the budgets are indicators of this commitment, commitment and responsibility which must be each one's, and which we must defend every day. And that is what we see in this Budget: when we speak in equality and non-discrimination, we do not speak of a formula that is inversely proportional to growth, we speak of development, which supports and accompanies sustained growth. In the context of equality and migration, under the aegis of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, it is, in fact, stressed that the total revenue planned for 2022 was clearly strengthened, in view of the socio-economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, and in terms of gender equality, according to several studies carried out in Portugal, and also in Europe, in particular at the European Institute for Gender Equality, the current pandemic context had a greater impact on women's lives and increased structural inequalities. in this proposal of State Budget for 2022, what is shaped is effectively this priority, the responses to the impacts of the pandemic that had specific effects on structural inequalities between women and men in Portuguese society, mobilizing funds of the Recovery and Resilient Plan and partnership agreement. This objective, as can be read in the Budget report, is achieved through the coordination of the implementation of the gender perspective, which is integrated into various components of the PRR, since the reform of measures to combat inequalities between women and men, the component of qualifications and competences, the increase of social responses to combating stereotypes, educational and training initiatives and cross-sectional data breakdown, in line with the Strategy for Innovation and Modernization of the State and Public Administration. In addition, the instruments that allow the implementation of projects, within the framework of the National Strategy for Equality and Non-discrimination 2018 - 2030 « Portugal + Equal», including the involvement of measures in the field of prevention and combating domestic violence, violence against women and reconciliation between professional, personal and family life. For 2022, this budget provides for an appropriation of more than EUR 10 billion for the High Commissioner for Migration and also not of this value, but of more than 150 000, for the Commission for Equal Labour and Employment. This is a strategic political action which is embodied in concrete measures. In general, in order to be speeded up, within the framework of measures relating to citizenship and equality: the National Plan to Combat Racism and Discrimination 2021 - 2025 ; the launch in 2022 of new plans of action of the National Strategy for Equality and Non-discrimination in the areas — as already mentioned — of prevention and combating domestic violence and violence against women, combating gender discrimination, orientation, identity and expression of gender and other sexual characteristics, giving continuity to structural policies to promote equality and non-discrimination, through conciliation of means to eliminate prejudices and discriminatory practices. To emphasize and continue in the actions to prevent and combat this scourge, give priority to the measures to protect victims, in particular with the support of all care, reception structures, the processes of empowerment—and I stress the psychological reinforcement, the psychological support responses given by the National Domestic Violence Support Network—including the monitoring and supervision process of these structures, which has been very much desired. Thus, and in the general context, we note that in this Budget we maintain the objective of promoting balanced participation in the labour market, of integrating the gender perspective into public policies, already materialized in this State budget, of strengthening responses to support victims of domestic and gender-based violence. With regard to integration and migration, it is urgent to continue the existing national strategies: the National Plan of Implementation of the Global Pact on Migration and the National Strategy for the Integration of the Roma Communities.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u481	But? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u482	There is an urgent need to increase measures to improve the reception and integration of refugees within the framework of the High Commissioner for Migration, for which other mechanisms under the State budget law compete.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u483	And who works? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u484	Finally, we summarise in a sentence the concept underlying all these measures: reduction of inequalities. It's 10th. the goal of sustainable development, among the 17 of the United Nations, to reach up to 2030. in this sense, it is necessary to ensure that all migrants are included and that the same rights are guaranteed to them, as was the concern of providing information on the measures of public policy disclosed by migrants, as well as by public institutions and civil society organisations, removing obstacles, through legislation allowing effective access by foreigners to measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u485	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u486	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. As we have recently welcomed some 35 000 Ukrainian citizens and other nationalities, it is urgent to insist on information campaigns for civil society in these matters. It is, in fact, important to realize that this population has been a guarantor and also a strengthening of the social state.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u487	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u488	To move forward, it is necessary to strengthen our humanitarian and solidarity matrix with civil society and to inform, raise awareness of the right reception, reducing possible hate speech, xenophobia and racism. And, finally, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the Budget of concrete responses and measures. Keeps the same priorities that aim to accelerate growth...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u489	Mrs. Deputy, please, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u490	...and territorial cohesion,... [[That's enough!]] [[That's enough!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u491	Mrs. Deputy...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u492	...but the state demands a new environment, where all people fit and have voice. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u493	Mrs Deputy has a request for clarification from the PSD, but clearly she does not have time to answer, so I imagine that the PSD is not aware of the request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u494	No, no, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u495	As the PSD does not lack the request for clarification, then it has the floor for an intervention, in the form of a request for clarification, Mrs Emília Cerqueira.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u496	Mr President, as a result of the poor management that the PS is getting used to, and which has also occurred in this intervention, there will no longer be any clarification, because the PS does not have time, but I cannot help making some repairs here. First, this political statement could have been made last year, two, three, four years ago, five years ago, because, ever since, in the area of equality are the same measures, the same articles, the same policies in which we all review ourselves, because we are talking about general principles, equal opportunities, non-discrimination based on gender, reconciliation of work and personal life. So all of this is concrete public policies, but if we go to see it—and this is what the honourable Member, in the immense time that she lost beyond what she thought, could have clarified—the budget appropriations, really, are so transversal, so cross-sectional by the various ministries, that they do not perceive. Even because we have seen the increase in the spending of the offices and the million that is allocated here for the whole area of equality, perhaps, does not amount to the expenditure of offices, especially for major policies. Then we speak in the PRR, when we refer to the fight against domestic violence, namely the issue of shelters for victims of domestic violence and homeless violence, but concrete amounts do not exist, because it is all transversal and promises year after year. what we really need—and this is the PSD statement, because we are tired of this demagogy, of these promises—is the fulfilment of the principles we have been defending for many years, which have not been discovered today, as seems to result to those who listen to the honourable Member. What we really want them to do, to calendar, to show us the book of charges: when it is hired, when the work is done, that houses of shelter, when they are made. It is that full of pilot projects, full of concrete cases that are given as examples, we are ourselves; what we want are the amounts, the money, the Budget and the execution. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u497	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Nunes of the Czech Republic has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u498	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister : Today we have heard several speeches from various ministers, some of them with more paternal areas than others. We realize that it was stone before stone, placed in various spaces, and I believe that the rule of government is so stone on the way that one day, one day, they will build something. [[CH's laughs.]] For now, it is not yet time, they are continuing to delay and the stones are continuing on the way — the Sixal hospitals, etc. , out there—but it's all coming. Speaking of the question of justice, we have a clear situation: the bet is on modernization and makes a budget increase of about 12 %, but they want to modernise without having employees to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u499	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u500	And, at the opening of the judicial year, Mr Bastonário of the Order of Advocates was clear in his speech, with the shame that he experienced the lack of about 200 judges and about 1,000 judicial officials.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u501	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u502	A justice for which access is almost necessary to be indigent, so the middle class is completely removed from the support to have access to justice, which, according to the reports we have, makes profit. Don't worry about it! Make a profit!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u503	How is that possible? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u504	It makes a profit, and yet they have no chance of hiring employees. It's a justice that's on the street of bitterness. The credibility of justice is mirrored daily in the news. It would be bad, too, with cases like José Socrates,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u505	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u506	... that, since 2014, continues to stop, continues in the drawer and does absolutely nothing. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The President of the Assembly of the Republic, at the beginning of the legislative year, was clear and asked this House to make the laws more stringent, simpler and better interpretation. This does not seem to be the way the Socialist Party intends. Finally, it is interesting to see that in the Government Programme only five times the word 'corruption' is mentioned. Five times!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u507	It's true! It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u508	But even I give you advice, so that it may be more perceptible to the Portuguese: it is enough to keep the word « corruption» and put there four names that mean the same thing— José Socrates, Armando Vara, Ricardo Salgado and João Rendeiro. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u509	Mr Rui Cristina, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u510	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and members of the Government, Mr. Deputies: After two chaotic years for the National Health Service, in which health professionals were real heroes, inventing resources, resisting conjuncural adversity and saving lives, what the government has to offer to the sector is a proposal of Budget not ambitious, of reduced responsibility and in no compromise. In recent years of socialist governance, the government has failed in its goals, has failed in time, has failed in its promises. Now, you refuse to fail, but do not solve the problem: you hide your goals, you don't advance deadlines, you don't make promises. When the absolute majority should originate absolute responsibility, what we have is an absolute denial of reality that, every day, is in view of the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]] The Socialist Government insists on denying the best solutions to the conjunctural health problems in Portugal and, instead of the best interest of Portuguese people, it is governed by the fulfilment of its agenda. He says he wants to solve the problem of waiting lists in the country, but he doesn't say how. He says he wants to build hospitals, which, for decades, are priority and oscillate between being and not being in the budgets of this government, but only with faith can we believe that this time they will be built. It says that access to a family doctor is an inalienable right of all Portuguese, but does not provide that all SNS users have that right in the short to medium term or establish any timing for that purpose. The truth is that this budget proposal does not present a viable solution to attract or retain more doctors in the National Health Service, and, with the tendency of recent years, the public sector is becoming less and less attractive to health professionals. This is once again a Soundbit Budget, the argumentative flag, the easy narrative; the one that serves as a headline of « plus 700 million for the SNS » or « the largest budget for health forever». But is it to spend where? To invest, exactly, where and what?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u511	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u512	And if so, why are there no compromises or concrete solutions? This is an ambitious narrative budget for an ambitious park action plan. And the bills don't strike right! Without goals, the Government believes that it will not have to answer to the Portuguese, but it is wrong, because the Democratic Social Party will be here to force it to act and not let it run away from its responsibilities. [[PSD applause.]] It will have to respond to the growing and effective needs of the sector, professionals and citizens. It is that, and I say, without wheels, the first concern of the Democratic Social Party is people. It's the people who have to be at the heart of the political decision. It is for them and for them that all political leaders must fight and work, and access to health is one of the main responsibilities of the State. But we're not deluded, that was already, and much before the pandemic. At the end of 2019, only 20 % of hospitals had no patients waiting for surgery for more than a year. More than 27 000 people are seeing this difficult period of time waiting for surgical intervention, which represented more than 30% of cases than in 2018. In the first half of 2019, 25% of priority cardiology surgeries exceeded the maximum guaranteed response time. In the second half, this number shot at 33 %. In the case of hospital consultations, 75% of the users on the waiting list for neurosurgery consultation, for example, were not met within the established maximum time limit. This was the specialty with the highest degree of non-compliance throughout the country. in these two cases, cardiology and neurosurgery, we talk about situations in which what is involved may even be saving lives. It is the difference between being able to pay in private or suffer and, in extreme cases, dying without assistance. With the pandemic, of course, the aid numbers did not improve. They have worsened substantially, although the government's narrative progresses with soundbits like this, which I quote: « The SNS is already producing more than it produced in 2019, caring for more patients and doing more surgeries. » That was Mr. Prime Minister's words, weeks ago, in this House, in the debate on the presentation of the Government's programme, but the truth is that it is hard for us to believe! Mr. Prime Minister spoke of official numbers of care activities in 2021, which only the Government knows. On the very day that these statements were made, the Social Democratic Party asked that the information be made public, but the truth is that we are still waiting. We do not know how many consultations were conducted, whether present or not, nor do we know how many consultations on the Trace COVID-19 platform were conveniently grouped in the general numbers, nor how many were related to other diseases. We do not know how many urgent surgeries were performed this year and we do not know how many scheduled surgeries were performed in public hospitals, in public-private partnerships, in conventional and protocol hospitals, and how many were not. It is not enough to assert achievements, masking reality, and that, the Portuguese feel it every day. We need to want more, we need to stop having nice speeches as a goal and quite "little" goals. in this budget proposal for 2022, the government does not leave the soundbite again, but cautiously, it excuses the presentation of concrete goals of end-of-list waiting, either in consultations, or in surgeries, an intention that the Minister of Health says is a priority since the first day she took up her duties. Now that you have absolute majority, you have absolute responsibility and all the tools available. What prevents the government from taking on these concrete commitments? [[PSD applause.]] Will it still be a secondary effect of the promise made by the current Prime Minister, in this Parliament, six years ago, that 2017 would be the year in which all Portuguese would have a family doctor? This, when the truth is, today, in 2022, more than 1, 2 million SNS users do not have a family doctor. It is almost 200 000 more than when the PS reached the government. [[PSD applause.]] What we want from the government is neither unfulfilled promises nor electoral commitments. What we want from the government is responsibility! What we want from the Government is answers to these questions: when can the Portuguese have access to health within the maximum waiting period? Does SNS have the conditions to solve this chronic and structural problem without recourse to the private and social sector? Is the Government prepared to put aside ideology and make the political decisions necessary to ensure the best interests of the Portuguese people? The pandemic was a challenge for the National Health Service, as it aggravated the chronic weaknesses of the system and put even more pressure on it. We can say that there is a pre-COVID and a post-COVID, but there is more health beyond the COVID-19. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u513	There is a health that needs more and more pressing answers and a comprehensive, structured and rigorous action plan. However, this is not what we find in this proposal for State Budget, which does not identify strategies to recover late care activity or to solve the chronic problem that generates this systematic delay. The Minister said, and I quote: "The SNS has an organisational problem. » It has and will continue to have, because it is not in the plans of the government to solve it! This budget proposal is dangerously a stance of minimal effort and maximum disparity. Without the need for consensus or parliamentary geometry, the PS of the absolute majority presents itself with a document that repeats, without great smell, empty promises of the past. [[Congrats from PSD Member Luís Gomes.]] This is the case with the promise of the Central Hospital of the Algarve, which has been systematically repeated for 19 years by the Socialist Party and has even had the right to launch the first stone. However, in 2016 the new Algarve hospital was no longer a priority. Four years later, the Minister of Health stated that it was necessary to move forward as soon as possible with the work, but, a few months back, she forgot to place the unit in the State Budget for 2021. And this is not a single case. It is repeated, as a bad karma, in relation to all the units that the Government has entered into in this budget proposal, and none has attributed investment values or deadlines for completion. It's another hand full of nothing! The 400 000 people who would be covered by the, repeatedly promised and repeatedly postponed, Sixal hospital and the 400 000 users who, in theory, the eternal new Sintra hospital will allow to host are already short answers to the current reality of the councils. There are serious forgetfulness in this document. For the sake of time or intention, the Government has ceased to mention the Socialist Party's electoral commitment to "build or modernize 100 primary care units". Lack of objectivity. How many units will be built and how many will only be intervened? We do not know what the investment is planned for primary health care. On this subject, tell us the story that we need to be careful about believing. We remember that, a decade ago, the then Secretary of State Manuel Pizarro advocated USF (family health units) of model C, which covered the social, cooperative and private sectors, with a response to the need for assistance in the face of the limitations of the SNS and the commitment to assign to all citizens a family doctor. In conclusion, also in the health sector, this is a Budget that knows little, very little. Little vision, little ambition, little responsibility. It does not respond to the structural problems of the sector, it does not present strategic solutions for a greater organisation and sustainability of the SNS, it does not show respect or recognition by health professionals. It is also an 'accountful' budget, far from meeting the needs of the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u514	Mr Diogo Pacheco de Amorim.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u515	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The session is already long and we are all tired, so I will be brief, leaving only one note on a matter which is particularly dear to my party, that of the Portuguese communities. We are 15 million Portuguese: 10 million living, sadly, in this socialist paradise and the remaining 5 million scattered around the world. of the latter, more than 2 million have Portuguese identity cards, but the other 3 million have already given up, probably overcome by the immense difficulties in obtaining it in their consulates. These five million are, in large part, the best of us all. They risked, they left, they won. They have integrated themselves into the communities where they live, maintain close links between themselves and, all of them, a deep connection to the land from which they left. But this deep connection has only one meaning, from there, because, from there to there, from successive governments, they have only received an angry overcrowding, translated into the worst services of the only support network that the Portuguese State gives them, the consular service network.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u516	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u517	Since the first Government of Prime Minister António Costa that, in successive budgets, promises have never been made to improve this network of service delivery, always with the same results: none. Once again, this State Budget promises the always promised, but never fulfilled, which, as it is evident, will be once again to fulfill. There will continue to be: telephones that play in consulates, but that nobody attends; hundreds of kilometers to go to consulates that are already closed, almost closed or that have not even opened;...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u518	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u519	... a period of six months to one year to be able to remove the identity card from these consulates. Only one service works impedibly well, that of the Tax Authority.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u520	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u521	in this service, emigrants are very well and readily cared for, like all of us, in fact. [[CH's laughs.]] Subsequent governments have been producing tax legislation that has transformed migrants into companies even more desirable than those already massacred resident taxpayers. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr President, you pointed out, in two speeches, that, having been elected Member by the communities, your election as President was a symbol of the importance that your party gave them. Mr President, because, looking at this State budget, this election is at risk of being a beautiful symbol of nothing, taking into account the historical blackness of the promises in the State budget. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I would not like to be in your place, Mr President. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u522	Sir, it's reciprocal. [[Laughing.]] Mr Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u523	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: In the remaining seconds to speak, I will ask the Government a question, or rather a repair — because I will no longer have an answer — very concrete on the question of education. In the amount allocated to expenditure on central government staff for higher education, there will be an increase of 7, 9 % this year from around EUR 1500 million to EUR 1600 million. For basic and secondary education, on the contrary, there will be a decrease of 2, 9 %, decreasing from around EUR 5300 million to EUR 5100 million. If we associate what higher education gains with what basic and secondary education loses, only this year will there be a difference of more than 10 %. At the time of truth, teachers of basic and secondary education were left behind. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u524	The state of the process of decentralization of competences for the authorities does not justify these numbers in 2022. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u525	We are now moving to the closing stage of the debate. Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u526	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, Faces and Dear Members of Parliament: I had planned to start this intervention in another way, but I must confess that there is an episode in this budget debate that does not come out of my mind and I would like to share it with you to, in a way, see where our country is and where the political debate is in 2022. The episode occurred when Mr. Prime Minister referred, and I quote, to the « happy expression» of his predecessor, Prof. Cavaco Silva, when he said that Portugal had to approach the platoon in front of the European Union. The PSD reacted with great joy and there was an exchange of handcuffs between PS and PSD about the paternity of this « happy expression ». Having lived these 80s, at some point, I asked myself: are the two largest Portuguese parties, in the year 2022, discussing the happiness of choosing a formula and the paternity of a goal that served us in the 80s? Faces and dear colleagues, the goal that served our parents in the 1980s, which was enough not to want to emigrate, is not the goal that served our children in 2022. The Free has a different strategy and realizes that, as we approach the front platoon, there are many people who simply choose to move from Country. They have this possibility, which gave them the European project, and it is therefore the team that must realize how to do differently in order to keep the motivation of those who want to stay here or of those who want to return. It is in specific areas of the future that we can debate between ourselves and choose to be ahead of the front platoon. What the government offers us is a transition budget in the midst of a global geopolitical crisis. What the Free defends is a Budget that, instead of repeating 2021 formulas, attacks this crisis ahead. What the government offers us in future technologies is hydrogen auctions. What the Book proposes is the construction of a public hydrogen company in Portugal. What the government offers us is the defense of the classic social state, which we defend and believe should not shrink a millimeter. What the Free is either a social state adapted to the realities of a new era, in which, for example, we adapt the rules of unemployment allowance so that people in situations of domestic violence, or who want to move to the interior of the country, or who have a documented and valid training course to do, can also benefit from the unemployment benefit.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u527	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u528	What the government defends is a program for comfort in homes, which is bureaucratic and is not directed at lower-income classes. What the Free defends is Programme 3C.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u529	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u530	In conclusion, Mr President. The government had 120 Members and the Free had only one — it is true! — but the Government promised that with an absolute majority, it would not rule in absolute terms. Therefore, the space that is created in the debate in the field of expertise and in the global final vote serves to prove that this is true, i.e. that they are willing to work with the rest of Parliament so that the budget we vote in three weeks' time will be significantly different and more ambitious than just approaching us from the front platoon.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u531	You have the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, for her closing speech, to whom I ask for maximum restraint in times, because we still have good hours of work ahead.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u532	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister and other members of the Government: When, at the opening of this debate on the Budget, the NAP spoke on the climate clock, which tells us that we have seven years to avoid the point of no return, the Prime Minister pointed out the seven pages of NAP proposals received in the State budget. The problem is that you have forgotten the remaining 369 pages of the Budget and, more than there is a road to walk, of course, these pages still know little by little in various domains. Of course, as far as the climate emergency is concerned, when we see that almost nothing is done to reduce the dependence of the country on fossil fuels, that there are still bad subsidies for large pollutants and that it is not seen, even, the expansion of the social passes of public transport, so that they are trendly free of charge. They know little by little when we see that the money to fight energy poverty and ensure the efficiency of people's homes is six times less than it should. The remaining 369 pages also know little about other matters. They know little by little when: if you think that the increase in essential cabaz with a €60 valley is enough, but it does not reach those who live below the poverty threshold; the money given for animal protection is manifestly inferior to that which has been marked for many years; the dignity of health professionals continues to be embedded in the drawer; and there are more than 1, 2 million Portuguese without a family doctor as long as we have promised—and well! — that the thousands of Ukrainian refugees arriving in our country would also have that right. They know, above all, when their hands are closed for the country's needs, but they are wide for the New Bank, for public-private road partnerships or for cruel activities such as hunting or bullfighting.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u533	It's always the same conversation!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u534	But we know that the process of negotiating the State budget does not run out here and also that the Prime Minister has promised that this would be an absolute dialogueal majority. We know that we are only a place for all causes, but it was thanks to the NAP that, in the general discussion of this Budget, there were answers: seven pages of measures aligned with the seven years we have to combat the climate crisis and the country's socio-economic crisis. These measures range from the Houston First projects to the support for victims of domestic violence, to: reduction of taxes to the middle class and to young people, through the review of steps; nature watchers, who are thus strengthened; monitoring of river pollution; and a taxation that combats the climate emergency and promotes the energy efficiency of houses, through tax deductions, and which encourages the circular economy, absolutely fundamental to combating the climate crisis, through the reduction of VAT of repairs of domestic appliances or photovoltaic panels. But fiscal justice shouldn't be around here. We know that there is much to be done, particularly in the fight against tax havens, particularly with the new regime of inclusion and strengthening the means of combating corruption, but one thing is certain: when, in October 2021, the country saw itself with an unprecedented socio-economic crisis, the NAP said it would not fail the country. At that time, we also said that if the government were available to accept our measures, we would abstain from voting in general. So we did, and so we will do again today, because we promise and fulfill. Mr. Prime Minister, you've said there's a road to walk, we hope that road doesn't know a little bit. Above all, we hope that ‘the given word will be an honest word’ and that, in the field of specialty, which is the first test of fire, it will prove that it is available for dialogue.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u535	For the closing intervention on behalf of the Left Block, Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u536	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The harshest criticism of the former Government of António Costa has come to this debate by the current Government of António Costa. I explain: do you remember the budget that Antonio Costa held for the Chambers in the last electoral debate? It provided for a deficit of 3, 2 %. In today's debate, the Minister of Finance replied to the Bloc that the deficit that António Costa had given three months ago was, after all, irresponsibility. It is also a criticism that it is also a clarification: inflation allows for a brutal increase in tax revenue, but the government has decided not to use this revenue to support those who work and see the salary eaten by inflation, or even to respond to the enormous problems of essential public services. The Government will use this additional revenue to review below the deficit target and go beyond the European rules, which today, in fact, are suspended. However, it is misleading to think that this accelerated race to the deficit marks any political change. The compression of wages and the social state is the repeated option of PS since 2019 and it was she who rushed the political crisis. Today, with the comfort of the absolute majority, PS finally risks clarity. Brilliant Dias is the right leader for this absolute bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u537	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u538	Hey! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u539	In 2013, he accused the PSD/CDS government of not making sufficient budgetary consolidation. While the people shouted in the street « who fucks the troika», while the Block and some of the PS members were joining to go to the Constitutional Court to defend who works, Brilliant Dias was on the other side wanting more cuts. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] In 2014 Antonio Costa won the PS campaign against this vision. At the time, he said: “If we think as the right one thinks, we end up ruling as the right one. » Today, when I hear again the Minister of Finance compare the State budget with a family and repeat the old and wrong speech on the right on debt and deficit, I am obliged to agree with the António Costa de 2014.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u540	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u541	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the State budget provides for an inflation of 4 % in 2022. I will not debate the optimism of this forecast, in view of the known data, because the central issue is another: even if the government is correct in inflation forecasts, the Budget fails to respond to the country. The generality of the measures announced to combat inflation is so residual that it does not even enter the Budget, it falls in the twelfths of 2021, and the support measure for vulnerable families is less than 0, 03 % of GDP. Not even with a magnifying glass! This budget places the poorest and has no room to accommodate the price drop in an impossible situation. Neither the indexer of social support - the reference to all social support - is updated to inflation. The proposal to update the salaries of State workers, which serves as a reference to the private sector, also ignores the inflation forecasts of the Budget itself. Three months ago, the Prime Minister promised teachers and nurses who would have more income, now ensures that, with an inflation of at least 4 % and a salary update of 0.9 %, prices will rise four times more than wages. The Minister of Finance said today that increasing wages and inflation pensions would be an illusion. Mr Fernando Medina, creating illusion is promising that this inflation – which is generated on the supply side and not on the demand side – can be contradicted by loss of demand, through the corrosion of wages, not by pricing and margin control on the supply side, where the problem is. It is noted that neither expenditure on public services is updated by inflation. That is to say, with all the more expensive public services, there are fewer means. Schools, health and justice in the agony of means are what the Government is proposing to us in this budget. Even the budget for culture, almost non-existent, shrinks. It must be such caution! But the government of prudence does not exempt the large hands for some: it continues not to charge the EDP seal tax ; it continues to provide for 138 million additional for the New Bank, in assets for deferred taxes ; it has retreated in the intention of taxing the extraordinary profits of companies; it maintains golden visas, tax stamps to non-standard residents, real estate funds and unbridled local housing, feeding the housing crisis; and under the applause of Cavaco Silva, it maintains the labour legislation of the troika, while managers of the largest companies increase their salaries by 90 % and distribute millions of dividends. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr Prime Minister, today the government has brought up the debate on GDP numbers that have just been disclosed, ignoring inflation figures that are also now disclosed: 7, 2 % this month! In other words, despite economic growth, wages are shorter. Tell us, Prime Minister: what happens when GDP increases, but wages do not? The echo of an old saying was heard: "The country is much better, people are not. Do not keep on seeking. ” By repeating the old mantras on the right, Mr. Prime Minister speaks in a dead language. It ceased to be used when, in 2016, it was proven that economic growth and fiscal consolidation depend on an economy that pushes wages and pensions. I know that the right is paralyzed when you hear this Mass in Latin, but to shut up right with the program on the right is the bird of a left budget. [[Congratulations from BE.]] This legislation has only one month and there is already evidence: the absolute majority has abandoned the people, has abandoned the majority of the people. On the contrary, the Left Block does not fail to believe: in public school for children; in the National Health Service for those who need it; in housing as a right and not a luxury; in the idea that a young person should not live condemned to the choice between unemployment and the precarious contract; in an economy that respects those who work. It is on behalf of this majority that, without surprise, we are voting against this budget. If, in October 2021, he was already very bad, in April 2022 it is a condemnation of most people to a worse life. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u542	To close the debate on behalf of the CFP, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u543	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : Despite the situation in the country being now much more difficult than six months ago, the Government insists on a proposal for a budget which rejects solutions to national problems and answers to the difficulties of workers and the people. With this option, the PS Government is not just an example of the stubbornness of the absolute majority. In fact, what this option most gravely reveals is what can be expected of this government over the next four and a half years, i.e. the lack of answers to the problems of workers and the people and the use of any pretext to justify the degradation of their living conditions, while promoting the accumulation of privileges and benefits to economic groups with the most unsustainable justifications. Given the view of the PS Government, the national situation would not be a cause for concern. The absolutely essential issue is the deficit remaining at 1, 9 %. Inflation is high and may have reached 7, 2 % in April, and it is already admitted to extending until 2024, but the government continues to consider it as a passenger. All the rest, for the Government, are matters of conjunctural nature to deal with temporary panacea. Inequality and injustice, dependence and submission to external taxes, delays and structural deficits, none of this seems to justify a global response. It is understood that the Government wants to compare the budget proposal that it presented in October to say that it keeps the track, but the real contrast is what results from the comparison of this budget proposal with those that have been presented in recent years, especially between 2015 and 2019. this comparison results in an obvious conclusion: the time of replacement, defense and conquest of rights even ended. Anyone who was convinced that the PS had made this path by choice is now disappointed, and those who had hoped that the journey made in recent years had continuity realize that only above the absolute majority of the PS can this happen. Insufficient and partial measures to increase the income of workers, pensioners and pensioners result in the imposition of the loss of purchasing power. The positive step taken with the proposal of the CFP for the free of charge of day care centres, which was included in the law in 2021, is no longer followed by the creation of a public network of day care centres which makes available the vacancies that are still missing. The way to reduce the price of the social pass, to promote public transport, to reduce the propines and to strengthen the family allowance has no development. The commitments made with regard to the construction of public housing and the response to the problems of renting do not take place. The support given with the funds of the Guarantee Culture programme, created to respond to the impacts of the epidemic, instead of being valued and developed, have ultimately disappeared without leaving trace. By presenting a budget proposal already four months ago, the Government could have chosen to respond to problems which, in October, it was not possible to foresee or whose dimension was not yet clarified, but it preferred to turn the budget proposal into a lost opportunity. The Government could and should take measures to increase wages and pensions, but under the applause of the PSD, IL, the Czech Republic, the CDS and the economic groups reject this increase. The Government's refusal to promote the general increase in wages, in which this budget proposal should be included, translates into a wage cut on behalf of the profits which the economic groups are achieving, from energy to large distribution, from banking to telecommunications. The Government could and should now present measures to combat inflation by controlling and setting prices, but it does not do so to avoid dealing with the economic groups that win speculation. The Government could and should strengthen public services, especially the SNS, whose situation is critical, by hiring professionals, valuing their careers and wages, encouraging their establishment in the public service, but instead continues to refuse basic solutions. As regards tax policy, the Government could and should move forward with more significant fiscal justice solutions, with the relief of taxes on lower and intermediate incomes and on the consumption and effective taxation of large capital, but instead rejects the solutions which it had already refused six months ago and announces for the third time the end of the CFP, approved in 2019. No one has any doubt of the consequences that will have the options of this absolute majority of the PS in the deepening of strangulations, injustices and inequalities that mark the country's life. This Government is determining, with this budget proposal, the widespread loss of purchasing power, the deterioration of the living conditions of workers and the people and a new contraction of the internal market, which is added to the impact of the epidemic and which will impose more difficulties on thousands of micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, small farmers and fishermen. Only those who are indifferent to the difficulties of the people and the country or see in them the opportunity for success of the law of the neoliberal jungle and the corrosion of the democratic regime can rejoice in such a situation. [[PCP applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The country has resources and possibilities to deal with the current situation, so there was a willingness to implement the policy to mobilise them in this regard. For us, we will continue to be struck by this policy and by these solutions. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u544	To close the debate on behalf of the IL, Mrs Carla Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u545	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The document we are voting on today in this House is a starting point for a Government of Continuity, a document without any ambition, which does not know how to analyse the context and does not have a vision. Budget is more than a set of numbers, it is about people, about our lives, about our future. As much as the numbers are twisted, there is a reality out there, in our houses, in our streets, in our companies. In the country they leave us, it's important to talk about people. It is important to talk about people who are about to attend waiting lists, appointments lists, surgeries, late diagnoses. It is important to speak and take care of learning recovery. Our children and our young people deserve it. It is a budget that fails, yes, it fails young people, it fails public servants, it fails pensioners, it fails businesses, it fails liberal professionals. Propaganda is one thing, but real life is another. We must move our lives and people and not political rhetoric, not the debates we have won. There's good data, yeah. For example, the unemployment rate in 2022 will be lower. What they have forgotten to tell is that this is at the expense of the failure of the future of this country, which leads to so much emigration. What they have forgotten to say is that we have a young unemployment that affects almost one in four young people. What they have forgotten to say is that the latest INE data indicate long-term unemployment of more than 40 %. We are in a country where, still this week, the Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security admitted that he needed to support the income of 2, 9 million people.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u546	The pandemic!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u547	We are in a country that needs to subsidize companies to raise the minimum wage. We are in a country with the highest percentage of minimum wages for its workers. One more dice in the tail of Europe, one more podium on the contrary! A low-wage economy is what Costa II left Costa III, and a legacy of management as well. And it's not this budget that's gonna save us. This is a Budget that does not recover the waiting lists and in which they oblige us, for example, to wait three years for specialist consultations. This is a Budget that does not recover learning, which we should preserve most. With so many false interests of love, this government was able to do the full : fail from children to teachers. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u548	And no, Mr. Prime Minister, it's not true, as I said here, that we went through the pandemic without leaving anyone behind. This is, as a starting point, an ambitious budget. This is a starting point for a hidden tax budget. Mr Prime Minister, see: you are going to raise about EUR 3 billion in taxes, a large part generated by the inflation that is draining us. And where does the state win the most? In indirect taxes, just where families with less income are most affected. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u549	In addition to this is the arrival of the PRR, the bazouca, the largest volume of funds ever — money from the Portuguese, not from the PS, not from this government! [[Applause from the IL.]] But the government spends that money to meet chronic budget needs! And if we spend investment money on current expenses, we're masking coming deficit. We're fooling future generations. That money was for them, that money was for them. [[Applause from the IL.]] And, yes, I will say it well and quietly, it is good to have a social state that supports those who need it. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u550	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u551	The problem, sirs. Members, it is not only the State Budget, it is the state of the country — a country with 2, 9 million people in need of income support, more those who need and do not have. It's just, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, in the country outside the government's statistical choices we are relatively poorer. This is the state to which the country has arrived. After all, it is also seen here that these are the liberal policies, the ones that help those who need the most, that help break the cycle of poverty; they are not the socialist policies, as you can see. [[Applause from the IL.]] We have already seen in these debates that the Budget does not relieve the budget of the workers of this country, which does not relieve them through the reduction of the IRS, does not update the steps of the IRS. And, you know, ladies. Members, companies wishing to increase workers' wages to restore purchasing power will, after all, increase tax collection. This budget does not relieve businesses, it does not increase fiscal competitiveness, it does not create wealth to increase wages. With companies in difficulty in the face of rising costs of raw materials and energy, I would ask: what do you expect to take advantage of this budget strike that benefits the state's safe deposit boxes so much to return money to the Portuguese?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u552	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u553	Should the government not support citizens and businesses that generate wealth rather than using external factors such as inflation? I ask you, Prime Minister : when you are making tax dollars with inflation, are the unexpected profits only bad when they are for businesses? It is that this Budget also lives on unexpected profits. But we are still going in time, Prime Minister, to make changes, in the field of expertise, to neutralise the effect of inflation, for example, to consider the alternative we have left on the lowest IRS steps. Dialogue more, cover less. [[Applause from the IL.]] The government says it is trying, but those who strive are families and businesses. They say they want the capitalisation of companies, the promotion of investment culture, but they advance with the inclusion of IRS income, a measure that seems more like a sign of false virtue, which, in order to raise 10 million euros, only fugitive investors, only undermines savings and investment, impairs the financing of companies. After all, the only capitalisation of companies you see is through the Development Bank? Oh, my God! So we're talking about IRS, something that's so expensive to us. But it's still more expensive for the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u554	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u555	A jewel in the crown of reforms and, quoting the Minister for Finance, the « favor of young people ». A reform that is not reform, because, Prime Minister, two additional steps are not a reform. These are two steps that put us on the tail of Europe, once again for the league of the latter. Let me put it into practice: the measures announced concerning IRS have an impact of EUR 210 million. And, you know, Prime Minister, for TAP will go between three and five times more than that. [[Applause from the IL.]] And it's good that anyone who hears us knows well. Do you know how much more the government will collect from 2019 only in IRS? More EUR 2000 million. I repeat, EUR 2000 million! That would be enough to make a reform. At the same time, IRS Young, together with the Return Programme, has an impact of EUR 25 million. The so emblematic measure for the PS and for the government, after all, represents 34 € per month for a young man who earns 1000 €, on the average of five years.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u556	Five times 60!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u557	Yes, 34 € is better than nothing, but nothing or nothing is the ambition of this government for young people. The great flag for young people, the passport for your dreams is 34 € per month! ambition, ambition, Prime Minister! [[Applause from the IL.]] What the government presents to us is a budget that leaves out of society, leaves out of growth and, contrary to what it claims, leaves the disadvantaged young and future generations out of the world. We will vote against this budget because it does not serve Portugal. And now, in the budgetary process, they will rely on the Liberal Initiative to put forward proposals to restore the purchasing power of families, to increase competitiveness, so that those who have less can rise in life and help the damaged social elevator. The country's reforms are also political choices and Portugal can count on the Liberal Initiative, from then on to the polling. It is that an absolute majority is not an absolute power, an absolute majority is not an absolute opacity. We will put forward concrete proposals to improve the lives of all. We will continue to show that there is an alternative, that liberalism works, needs and leaves no one behind.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u558	There's got to be a can!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u559	We want to contribute to the import of successful policies, which are not available in Portugal, so that we stop emigration due to lack of choice. This is what we owe our voters, and we will not fail. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u560	To close the debate, on behalf of the party, Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u561	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen: Today we close the debate on a budget which has already its destination. Its fate is traced by elections that have caused the wear of the left-wing benches and that have managed to bring to the political debate a new set of ideas and actors that will not let the Government of Antonio Costa continue, nor pass impunity. More important than this political change that took place on 30 January—and that will not stop increasing over the next few days—is the return of austerity with this Budget. This is the budget that has determined that the Portuguese workers, who invest, who bet on their businesses and their families, who bet on work will lose income. [[Protests by PS Member Isabel Alves Moreira.]] There's no other word. This is the budget of austerity. This is the Budget that Antonio Costa brought to Portugal and his face will be, from today, associated with the episode of austerity that we will live over the next few years. [[Congrats from the CH.]] But this is also a curious debate, in which the Minister of Health, confronted here with waiting lists, with the enormous degradation of public services, says that perhaps in the 1980s things should have been different. We already knew that the fault was with Passos Coelho, we already knew that the fault was with Cavaco Silva, any day we will probably come to the hypothesis that the fault is with General Ramalho Eanes. [[CH's laughs.]] The permanent idea that the blame is for the past and not for this huge government, which is present here, is something that deeply shocks the Portuguese. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u562	The inability to take the blame, to say « our fault, excuse us, we will do better », is something that will mark a kind of feeling of impunity that prevails in this government.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u563	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u564	Mrs. Minister of Health said, in response to the Arrival, that this is not the Budget that the Arrival would have and that it does not believe in a health system of checks. And it's true. We must be right to the Minister of Health. She does not believe in a health system of checks or in a health system of freedom, she believes in a health system of queues — huge queues of waiting, in which the Portuguese define every day to be healthy! [[Congrats from the CH.]] This is the health service that the Minister of Health defends for Portugal. And those who see us know well what we're talking about: three years in the Guard waiting for a consultation; four years in some places in the Algarve to get the first consultation of a specialty. That is why a Health Minister here should come to say'sorry'. But no! The Minister says the blame is for the 1990s, the 1980s, the 1970s. He was from the Steps, he was from the Troika,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u565	And Afonso Henriques!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u566	... now it's from Enough. It must always be someone, of all, less than what it is: the socialist government and the socialist bench that supports it in this Budget. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Members, four new hospitals were announced: Lisboa Oriental, Seixal, Sintra and Alentejo. I don't know if Mr. Prime Minister will put the first stone back on any of them. But I remember Mr. Prime Minister that, in a few years' time, we can have stones everywhere, because Mr. Prime Minister goes to every country in this country and puts a stone there, takes the press all with him, makes a tremendous show for the country and, when we get to the Budget, says that there was no money, that was the pandemic, that was the war, that was inflation, and that was not possible. I know he was used to some lazy opposition. That's not what you'll have from now on. It will have permanent scrutiny and call on this Parliament whenever necessary. You will have-the-CL with a majority or without a majority, because we don't care about the number of Members here of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u567	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u568	We will continue to make the same firm opposition, because that is what Portugal and the Portuguese ask us to do. During the pandemic in 2021, Portugal was 2. the worst country in the European Union in response to health care. In 2021, we were 2. the worst country in the European Union, only surpassed by Hungary. And here, the Portuguese know what it is to get to a health center and have the door closed, call a doctor and there is no doctor, get to the hospital and just be there the first stone with the name of António Costa,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u569	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u570	...and have absolutely nothing else to see. If this is a decent country, I don't know what a decent country is. [[Congrats from the CH.]] But this should also be the Budget of Justice, of the great reform of justice promised by Antonio Costa. We know that the Socialist Party and reforms of justice are things that will not be very similar. There was even an old socialist leader who said he was marimbaring himself for the secret of justice. I will not use a more ugly word here in the House so as not to be represented by Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u571	There's no doubt that it would be.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u572	The truth is that reforms of justice and the Socialist Party have never been the strong one of this country, neither of this Parliament nor of that party. The Budget for the area of justice says that we will now bet on modernization and digitization. Judges, the Judicial Police, justice operators and judicial officials must be very happy. Modernization and digitization, that was what they were waiting for after so many years. at the end of so many years of frozen careers, at the end of operations that are launched by the police and that never know how they end up, at the end of standing courts without the ability to respond to corruption that this country drives from north to south, the big answer is modernization and digitization. This is what they brought us, and this is what a large part of the country believes. And believe not because you have to believe, believe because you wanted to believe in Antonio Costa. But, Prime Minister, what I should do today in this Budget was present a great reform that ends once and for all with Ricardo Salgados and Rendeiros loose in this country, which is what we wanted to avoid. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. Prime Minister tried to give me a tax law lesson, but he didn't do it particularly well. It didn't work out well because, as it usually does, it was wrong in the numbers — like a predecessor who said that the important thing was to make the accounts. He said that social security was the great cause of the brutal increase in this tax revenue, but, Prime Minister, the revenue of IRS and VAT in the last year has brutally increased, and this increase, directly felt in the hands of people, is not of social contributions for employment, it is even this brutal socialist burden that suffocates everything you want to work, whatever you want to invest...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u573	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u574	... and that leads you, whenever someone works a little bit more, you have to pay three times more, whenever someone wants to consume a little more, you have to pay four times more. It is the pure socialist logic of taking out who works, of taking out who invests and giving to those who don't want to do anything at all. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. Prime Minister said I knew the three sides of taxation. And he's right: the side of the state, the side of the taxpayer and the side of those who work. But you're also right about something else, Prime Minister. It's just that I even know the three sides... [[PS, PCP and BE protests and CH counter-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u575	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us hear the speaker, who is exercising his right to intervene. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u576	Mr. Prime Minister is even right to say that I know the three sides, but there is one side I don't know. Do you know what it is? It's to be next to José Socrates and Armando Vara! That side I don't know! [[Congrats from the CH.]] And I hope most Portuguese don't know either! That side I don't know, Prime Minister! This, Prime Minister, is exclusive to you and to you, to celebrate and celebrate your results with José Socrates and Armando Vara.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u577	What about Luís Filipe Vieira?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u578	This is not the budget of ordinary people. It is the Budget that wants, more and more, to suffocate businesses and families. It is the Budget that wants to destroy everything that has been built by those who work. Even public servants, those who António Costa said defend, greatly lose purchasing power with this Budget. But today it is cool to say that we have a budget of good for the future, green energy. We are from that Europe that likes to say that it is all very cool and that we are a very modern country looking forward, a green and ecological Europe. But when we look at the Budget, there are 650 environmental rates on companies. How can we survive like this? Oh, my God! How can we survive like this? Oh, my God! [[Congrats from the CH.]] I shall end, Mr President, by telling you this: it is shocking that a socialist government with an absolute majority comes to this House, in a scenario of war and brutal inflation that all Portuguese feel, to present the same electoral pamphlet that led to the State budget. It is gratifying that the Socialist Government feels so unpunished and so immune to what is the popular feeling that it affords itself to use this Parliament as an echo and as a house of mere propaganda. I know you like poetry, Mr. Prime Minister, and quote those poets who may have been part of your youth. I remind you of another one that said that we think that sometimes it is always winning and winning, but when we least expect, here will be the right to take and carry what you have conquered. [[On your feet, applause from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u579	To close the debate on behalf of the PSD, Mr Rui Rio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u580	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members: The parliamentary debate of a State budget is always a time for a discussion that is very focused on the concrete measures that it brings us and that affect people more immediately and directly. This perspective is important, but even more important is to evaluate its contribution to a country's medium- and long-term development strategy. This aspect is even more relevant in the case of Portugal, since the economic results we have achieved since the beginning of the century are clearly negative. As a rule, we grow below the average and, even when this does not happen, we do not stop growing less than the poorest, so that Portugal has fallen permanently on the European scale. We are increasingly late for the other European countries. Our per capita GDP is sinking and the Portuguese lose hope of having a standard of living with European standards. It is not surprising, therefore, that our most qualified young people migrate into a dimension that they have never seen before. They emigrate because they do not find professional opportunities in their country compatible with the level of preparation they have achieved. This proposal for the State Budget does not cease to give continuity to the socialist policy so far followed and its results are, as I said, a growing relative delay of Portugal. The change that the Russian military invasion has caused in the world — particularly in terms of the evolution of world trade and the prospect of a significant slowdown in the process of globalisation — obliges economies to modernise themselves and adapt to these changes. That is why, if it was so far essential to support the modernisation of companies in order to strengthen their international competitiveness, before the post-war framework, it becomes more decisive to bet on those who can take the lead in productivity. Only in this way will Portugal be able to break with the economic stagnation that has lived. The budget proposal we are considering here does not go that way. It goes, as it has always been, on the usual path of socialist logic. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The vital element for strengthening our competitiveness is surely investment. Without it we do not modernize ourselves nor will we be able to produce more and better. In order to strengthen investment, it is first and foremost necessary to strengthen savings. Without national savings, we will have to resort to external savings, i.e., we will have to indebted even more to the country. At the time of April 25, the saving rate represented around 24 % of the available income; today it represents around 7 %. And the government, not content with this development, is proposing to discourage it even more, exacerbating taxation on the most valuable furniture. The rate of IRS taxing them in 2011 was 20 % today at 28 %, and the government wants to increase it by 33 % and, in some cases, by 40%. The Executive will say that he is taxing the highest-income taxpayers, but when we need to increase our savings to support higher investment levels, his uptake can only be with those who have income to achieve it. This does not make any sense because, in order to achieve a small increase in revenue, it gives more an absurd slaughter in the incentive to save. [[PSD applause.]] And so we're going on. With taxes going up every year and being absorbed by increasing state spending, they never go back again, continuously raising the global tax burden on people and businesses. The Government's propaganda will say that it is intended to adjust the steps of the IRS, but the fact is that its overall table does not have the proper update at the inflation rate, which represents an obvious increase in tax. Because inflation is in practice a true hidden tax. But if this huge burden of taxes we pay served to have public services in condition, the Portuguese could even understand why such a sacrifice was made. The truth is, with this laxist-profile governance, Portuguese public services have suffered a marked degradation. It is felt in the action of the Ministry of Internal Administration, in the sector of education, in the inability of justice, in the disorganization and slowness of social security services or in the National Health Service. The Portuguese pay taxes, but those who manage them have no capacity to offer them acceptable public services. Yes, it has been offered a degradation of its quality and, as far as SNS is concerned, it has even caused the growth of the mortality rate. Mr President: Inflation is the Government's golden egg chicken in this budget proposal. It is through it that the Government intends to deceive people, not fulfilling the promises made only three months after the legislative elections. by proposing to raise wages only 0, 9 % when inflation in the euro area has already exceeded 7 %, it is clear that wages will lose at least 4 % of purchasing power this year of 2022. This represents a loss of more than half a monthly wage for each worker. It is as if a cut of more than 50 % was made in the Portuguese Christmas allowance. What would the PS say if another government took steps to cut more than half of the Christmas allowance to the workers? [[PSD applause.]] The PS would surely say — as it has always said — that we were in austerity. Well, those who have repeated times without account that there would never be austerity with them are the same ones who now, with great rejection, send their own words to the urticians. They promised to raise the average wage. They promised a strong increase in the minimum wage. They promised to increase the weight of wages in national income. They promised that there would never be austerity with them. They promised, promised, and promised. Only three months passed, and, as expected, the promises were taken by the wind, as soon as the first breeze blew. [[PSD applause.]] Some usual PS voters will face this logic of action with great normality. "After all, politicians are so, they promise, and then they don't do it" — they will say these resignations in front of the dominant culture. But those who did it for the first time will feel that they will be wrong and, if there were such a second time that Mr. Prime Minister here used to boast, it seems to us certain that these votes would no longer be for them. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] At the expense of inflation — which, by means of the pandemic, has already been predicted before the war — the government olympically renounces its commitments to the Portuguese. They do not provide any technical explanation whatsoever: the technical conditioners should have been presented in the election campaign. That's what the PSD transparently did. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] When he got to win votes, there were no conditionals for the PS. There were clear promises, which are now thrown in the trash can of politics, to join many others who, throughout history, have been stopped there. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As I have already stated, the reduction of the deficit between 2016 and 2019 did not have any merit in terms of a structured government policy, with reflections on the future. This reduction was achieved at the expense of inertia, mainly at the blight of the European Central Bank's monetary policy, which led to a brutal fall in the interest of public debt and an increase in the dividends of the Banco de Portugal. To these facilities, the government added tax increases and cut in public investment. Of structural effort which led to a real consolidation of public expenditure, nothing was seen, because nothing existed. [[PSD applause.]] in this budget proposal, we continue in the same. However, with the help of the ECB, inflation now joins, which, by causing a nominal rise in GDP, does not correspond to an effective economic growth of this size, allows the government to shake some less negative ratios when it has little to do so and without them corresponding to a substantial improvement in the country's financial situation. The public debt ratio on GDP was 55 % at the beginning of this century and is now 127 %, which means that the Portuguese State is now 12 %. the most indebted in the world. This dangerous level of indebtedness, especially in an upward scenario of interest rates such as what we are already living in, and whose turnover will come up sharply over the next few years, required a sustained budget strategy for its reduction. That was never the option of the government! The option was, and it is, that of doing nothing at the level of expenditure management and remaining by the purely conjunctural gains that the circumstances allow you to display. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposal for a State budget for this year of 2022 is more than that. It does not put companies at the heart of priorities, so we can achieve more growth and more and better wages. It does nothing for the consolidation of expenditure and restricts public investment to European money, which, looking at recent developments, should concern us, because at the end of this aid, our spending structure will be increasingly rigid and therefore less capable of releasing means for public investment. But this proposal also has the capital sin of not fulfilling the promises made by the PS at the level of the purchasing power of wages and, above all, it blatantly contradicts the basic discourse of a party that, over the past few years, has not been tired of repeating to the satiety that, with it, there would never be austerity. [[PSD applause.]] We therefore have to vote on a document that gives reason to those who criticize politicians for making a lot of promises and failing to comply with them. For PS, this may even be a mere detail, but for PSD, only that fact would already be more than enough to vote against its approval. That is what we are going to do, for the reasons presented here. We do not want to be complicit in an economic strategy which, rather than seeking to tear new horizons, insists and persists in what has so little result so far. [[PSD applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u581	To close the debate on behalf of the PS, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u582	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members: The discussion of the State Budget Bill for 2022 takes place after the celebration of another anniversary of 25 April. A special moment that celebrated the fact that for the first time we will live more days in democracy than in dictatorship. 48 years ago, on 25 April came to dignify the role of this House, giving voice to the people, the Portuguese people, legitimizing their choices. This legitimacy is conferred by the democratic vote, which we all elected. It is not a minor matter to speak of that legitimacy when we talk about this budget proposal. This budget, in fact its rejection in October, was the source of a political crisis that the voters had an objective assessment. The Portuguese did not want to interrupt a path started in 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Portuguese, relying on the PS, and in this Prime Minister, also told us that the alternatives, in particular to our right, did not give guarantees that Portugal would be governed for all. The choice was clear: more social status, more cohesion, more sustainable economic growth, would even say sustained in certain accounts. Yes, Mrs. Catarina Martins, on certain accounts. In certain accounts of a left that is majority in this Parliament and which is worth far more than 4 % of the Left Block ; it is also worth the 120 Members of the Socialist Party. And that's why the Portuguese voted on a left that has no allergy to responsibility. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Portuguese, as a community, know that there is no collective way to divide. The Portuguese have said that they want economic growth, that they want to embrace the challenges of the 21st century, in particular the energy and digital transitions central to the skilled employment opportunities of the younger but want to do so together, without social dislocations, with more equality and social justice. Social justice is inseparable from fiscal justice that only progressiveity guarantees, rejecting tax adventures that, in the way of auction, the right was offering during the election campaign. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is the time to say that the Portuguese dropped the rejection to which this House voted the bill of the State Budget for 2022, in October 2021. The Portuguese voted in the PS for this budget to move forward, for the country to move forward. This is our mandate, this is the bond that we cannot and that we will not break. [[P.S.'s applause.]] When we have repeatedly heard in this House that the Government is presenting the same budget as it has tabled, it must be stressed: yes, it is true that we will fulfill our promises, for us the quality of democracy, yes, Mr Rui Rio, we are also playing here, because the representatives are fulfilling what they have promised the representatives. The bill we discussed here is, firstly, a political response to those who with confidence and hope voted on January 30 and voted majorityly on the PS, in their programme, in their proposed State Budget law. For us, you have to say this, and we will repeat as many times as necessary: a word given, Mr Rui Rio, is even an honest word. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a Budget that responds to the structural challenges of the Portuguese economy, which reinforces the commitment to the valorisation of public and private investment, in the fight against inequalities and in the policy of the progressive increase of income on the horizon of the legislature, as well as accommodates a necessary, continuous and gradual growth of the national minimum wage. It is a Budget that places another milestone on a path of growth and convergence with the European average, after the XXI Constitutional Government, led by Prime Minister Antonio Costa, having done so for four consecutive years. A unique event in the context of Portugal's participation in the euro area. The Portuguese are no longer poorer, the Portuguese are closer to the European average, the Portuguese, converging, have today a per capita GDP greater than they had in 2015, the Portuguese know in their pockets that what I say is true. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In addition, this budget also responds to the exceptional context in which the Portuguese economy is in a frame of enormous international uncertainty and volatility. The recovery of the pandemic, the difficulty in synchronizing value chains, demand and supply, as well as the invasion of Ukraine by the Russian Federation, are conjunctural elements that we know as well as they began, but that we do not know when they end. And it is not just the government or the PS that say so; the international institutions highlight the trendually conjunctural nature of the increase in inflation. The uncertainty about the evolution of the international context does not advise adventurous or reckless policies and all public policy decisions should be based on the best available information. The IMF, in its most recent study, pointed out precisely that the price rise is eminently linked to the rupture of supply chains and to the impact of war on Ukraine, providing that inflation is considerably lower next year, a prospect that is shared by the European Central Bank and the Banco de Portugal. The best information available, Mrs. Members, identify the inflation engines, advising that the measures to be taken on prices, reducing the energy bill for families and businesses and the production costs of agricultural and agri-food enterprises. And that's it, ladies and gentlemen. Members, which the Government has done, that is what this House has adopted on 22 April. The strategy is correct. Protect purchasing power, limit price escalation that has differentiated impacts depending on the level of income of citizens, and there are always penalties when the benchmark is more weight than food and energy goods. This is why the Government has presented in this House a reduction in the ISP, in particular the agricultural ISP and marked for agricultural use, support for more than 3000 companies with intensive energy use, a discount of 0, 30 € / l on social sector fuels, the temporary exemption of VAT on fertilizers and rations. This is why the Government has introduced measures to support the most vulnerable families. And, no less important, the disconnection between the price of gas and the price of electricity still negotiated and achieved in Brussels this week was another step towards the proper management of this environment. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, wanting to hide that today, in the face of uncertainties of different nature, the policy of certain accounts is the best safest to protect the purchasing power of Portuguese is to insist on an error that separates wages and pensions and all the public expenditure, in particular the one that supports the social state, from the financing of the Republic. in an ongoing assessment of debt sustainability—in particular when central banks appear to change their market intervention policy progressively—to protect Portuguese and the state's ability to support those who need the most depends on a fiscal policy that places the deficit and public debt on a downward trajectory. To make a pro-cyclical policy of continuous persecution of inflation, in this context, would only be comparable to the solution of the cost which the PSD/CDS Government has implemented, which, then, has fed another spiral, thus recessive, with the contraction of GDP to values always below that provided by all international institutions, which has brought the fall of tax revenues and more public expenditure, with an unemployment rate never seen, at a lack of control that has forced more — yes, there! — More and more austerity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This policy brought us, then, ladies and gentlemen. Members, wrong accounts, always wrong, and a remarkable number — I would say even a record — of amending budgets, which have added, with this policy, a fragility of the financial sector that we still pay with the depreciation of assets and an increase never seen of the bank failure of thousands of businesses and families. We, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, we're not going that way. Portuguese can continue to rely on PS and Antonio Costa. The protection of income and its purchasing power even needs certain accounts, even requires budgetary consolidation, even needs a different policy that does not follow, that does not pursue the inflation that will result in a loss, that is, permanent purchasing power of the citizens. But the right accounts are not incompatible with a budgetary policy that makes clear choices: the middle class, those who live from their wages and pensions. There is no European democratic, Europeanist left-wing policy without a profound mark of building opportunities for the greatest life insurance of democracies. Precisely this middle class and the younger ones in this middle class are even the political priority of the Socialist Party. We are well aware that the strongest democracies are built in more equal societies. We know that the greatest antidote to populism is a medium class that progresses, studies and forms, that has access to more skilled and better-paid jobs and that does not look at future generations with the frustration of those who do not find it precisely: the future. And this future is done with better employment, better businesses, more investment and exports, but with a social network that promotes equal opportunities. If we want to grow up without equality, the feeling of injustice will take account of an important part of society. That's the feeling, ladies. Members of the Liberal Initiative, it is this feeling that gives rise to extreme-right populisms, which germinate precisely in this perception of inequality that is sitting on your right. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u583	Pass on to another one and not to the same one!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u584	Is that because of us now? This is all I woke up now!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u585	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, particularly those who sit on the benches of the democratic right, when they look to your right, do not see the voters, but the representation of the frustration and perception of inequality that feels an important part of the Portuguese population—we do not spread it. But they also see a set of proposals that deepen inequality, having the democratic right ceased to fight long ago for the opposite, for equality, assuming as their a neoliberal program that has gone away from the social-Christian matrix that marked the dawn of our democracy and the programmatic contents of the, then, PPD and CDS. If the democratic right leaves the middle class, the public school and the SNS, we will not be the PS, at this moment of great demand, to abandon the central pillar of our democratic life, leaving behind the overwhelming majority of the Portuguese delivered to the invisible hand spells. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u586	Nice!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u587	What a lack of humility!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u588	That is why budgetary consolidation is still necessary and essential in order to protect the purchasing power of Portuguese and to place the social state safely not to exchange the social state for the vacuum and insecurity of the same middle class, Mrs. Members, but to ensure the best conditions of support for those who invest and create jobs, for those who innovate and develop new products and services, for those who do not give up the future, for those who do not give up the country. However, this is done only with more fiscal justice, progressiveity, with the unfolding, for example, of the 3. the e of the 6. the steps of the IRS, which represents a saving for families of more than 150 million euros, or also, within IRS, provide for the increase of deduction to the collection by dependent up to 6 years, from the second child, to a measure of support to young parents. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to look at this budget as the Budget which also relaunchs public and private investment. from the top of this gallery, allow me to share with you: the apparent productivity of the work grew 2500 €, between 2015 and 2019. This aspect is very revealing how it was possible to reduce unemployment and, at the same time, to create more value per unit of staff at work. This indicator grew much more — more than 20 % — than in 2011 to 2015 when unemployment in Portugal reached 17, 1 %, having a severe impact on the active population. This path is necessary. It is, to a large extent, the most effective insurance so that the social state can continue to be financed, to ensure the sustainability of social security and to generate opportunities in Portugal for the younger and the less young. It is central to the progressive change in the specialisation of the Portuguese economy. It is the future that we want and where there is an important part of the social progression that has been set in motion by the already mentioned middle class. The budget proposal of the XXIII Constitutional Government also has this mark: it is next to the companies, to invest, to create qualified jobs, to draw on the country's transformative energies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u589	To pay more taxes?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u590	It presents the most ambitious execution of the PRR in the temporal spectrum until 2026, with the Mobilizing Agendas, with the commitment to innovation, research and development, decarbonisation and digitisation, in promoting qualifications for a labour market in transformation with the emergence of new professions, new skills and therefore new jobs. It goes further: it presents the tax credit to investment, eliminates the CFP for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and promotes a tax change that makes the Portuguese patent box one of Europe's most competitive regimes in the taxation of industrial property. Everything, all convergent measures, consistent with an economy in transformation, but for more and better employment, better pay and that, above all, does not leave behind a generation looking for its future in Portugal. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the results are in sight. It was not only the apparent productivity of the work that increased. It is GDP that continues to increase, already reaching, despite the weight of tourism, to pre-pandamia values. It is exports of goods and foreign direct investment that returned to beating records in 2021. It is the unemployment rate that continues in values close to full employment. The proposal for a State Budget submitted by the Government is a balanced proposal, which contrasts with the fiscal adventurerism of the right and the unfortunately intricate immobilism from left to left of the PS. This is the Budget of those who do not give up the country, of those who do not give up the social state, education and public health. This is the Budget of Innovation, of the new economy emerging from twin transitions. This is a Budget that does not give up the middle class and does not abandon it to the invisible hand. This is our Budget, it has our brand, it is a Budget for all, to defend democracy and equal opportunities, to build a better future for all Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u591	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u592	That is why, with 120 Members, the expression of the political stability that the Portuguese people wanted to guarantee on 30 January, the PS parliamentary bench will finally rise to approve this budget bill for 2022. [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u593	To close the debate on behalf of the Government, I give the floor to Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, Deputy Minister for Parliamentary Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u594	Mr President, allow me, as I address this House for the first time in this Parliament, to greet you and to greet you, all of you. Ladies and gentlemen, wishing for good legislation. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, 184 days later, we reached the point where we stayed on 27 October 2021. on this day, as today, the Assembly of the Republic was called to pronounce itself, in general, on the proposal of the State Budget for 2022. 184 days ago we were here asking for the confidence of the House to work on the budget proposal. We therefore express the Government's willingness to assume, in the field of expertise, the conclusion of a parliamentary negotiation capable of creating the conditions for the final approval of the State budget proposal. This is how it works in democracy, so the partners on the left did not want to approve the Budget. We not only demonstrate our availability at that time, as we publicly made amendments to the Government's initial proposal — and they were not minor amendments either because of its budgetary impact or because of its economic and social scope. I give just a few examples: the extraordinary increase in pensions, the freeness of day care for all, gradually, and the exemption from IRS for more than 170 000 families. 184 days ago, Parliament wanted to assume the unpublished lead of a budget proposal. Do so in your legitimate democratic right, but do not say, Mrs Catarina Martins, that this was the will of the Socialist Party or the Government, because it was not.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u595	No one would say!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u596	But he also did so knowing, when he led it, of the special situation of vulnerability in which the country was located and knowing the political consequences that the lead of the State budget for 2022 could entail. It's been 184 days and a lot has changed these 26 weeks. There is a fundamental difference between this moment and the one we are living today in the House of Democracy: the Portuguese spoke, and spoke in a clear and unequivocal way, expressing their desire that the political solution of the Socialist Party should continue with conditions of strengthened governance, which we will be able to exercise with enormous sense of responsibility and dialogue. [[P.S.'s applause.]] After the way this document was discussed, voted in the campaign for the 30 January elections, the clear result of these elections also has this meaning. It is a State budget borne by Portuguese and Portuguese. This is because, no, Dr. Rui Rio, we don't promise one thing and we do another, as the right one used to us. We promised and we did! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members: on this day and a half of discussion, much was discussed if this Budget is equal or different from the Budget for 2022 which was presented here and plunged by the parties on the right and left to the left of the Government. Yes, this Budget is equal to the previous one in everything that had to be kept the same, and different in everything that had to be done differently, since the world has changed, and even changed, these months. And it's the same, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the direction. And it's the same, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the right accounts. This and the other budgets of these socialist governments are the same in the defence of the right accounts, which has caused an already foreseeable inconvenience to the right and a surprising inconvenience to the left. We defined in 2015 that it was a priority to remove Portugal from the enormous structural fragility that there was no budgetary space to respond to crises that could one day occur. For this, it was necessary, by our choice, that we assume and honor, if we take advantage of the manoeuvring space available to reduce deficit and public debt. We should not forget that we have come out of the great financial crisis much more indebted than we have entered and that in the years of austerity we have not diminished — we have only increased — our debt in the ratio of GDP. We assume and honor the goal of creating a breath to face the coming crises. Long we were expecting that we would have a pandemic and a war on our continent shortly thereafter. We defined in 2015 that we would increase this budgetary space by returning income to Portuguese, ending austerity policies and seeking the best balance between social cohesion, promoting development and sound public finances. in this space of time, with the pandemic, the country's resilience factors were more evident, with a strong labour market. Portugal has today an active population employed to a maximum and an unemployment rate to a minimum. It has a resilience situation in our economy which has led us to have a better budgetary balance than expected in 2021 and a historical fall in our public debt, both in absolute terms and in absolute terms. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at this end of the debate, there may be little memory on our right, but we do not forget, and we do not even forget, that the PSD found adventurous the end of austerity measures, which announced the arrival of the devil with measures which now dare to find insufficient and which has always been against the increase in the national minimum wage. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There may be a lot of irresponsibility in front of the future on our left, but we never said differently what we say today: we do not embark on illusions of an easy present at the cost of preparing for the future. There are those who argue that we should bear the current expenditure of the current budget and of the future, as if there were no tomorrow, as if there were no future. But as our friend Fernando Rocha Andrade warned in this House, «the tomorrow exists». And a left-wing policy must be given as a priority to ensure the conditions for financing debt, because everyone has already realized what happens at social expense when these financing conditions disappear. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The direction of this Budget is true: improving the living conditions of those living in Portugal, without calling into question the strengthening of the country's preparation to face future crises and seeking sustainable and fair economic development. on that, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, is the budget the same as we presented here last October? Yes, by consistency and responsibility. But it is also the same as we presented in 2016, in 2017, in 2018, in 2020, in 2021, always in strengthening the income of families, strengthening the social state, betting on a competitive and innovative economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This budget is different from what we discussed here in October, because it adapts to a new time and has exceptional measures to deal with inflation pressures. Support, worth EUR 1 million and EUR 335 thousand, to stabilize the prices of fuels and fertilizers is an example of the response we are giving to the demanding times we are living. And, no, the State budget does not ignore inflation, it fights it, reducing taxes on essential goods. Fight inflation, protecting families and businesses. Overall, between the reduction of taxes and support for families and businesses, the State budget has more than EUR 1 million and EUR 300 thousand to deal with inflation. Inflation is an opponent of the Budget and is not the result of the Budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We still don't know much about how the world will adapt to inflationary pressures, but we have already assured all citizens, on behalf of the government, that we will be careful and that if the wind changes, we will be able to adapt, as we have done. In the face of each adversity, we will face them and solve the problems of the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Because we know the direction and we have a clear objective: to give our younger brothers and our children a stronger country for the future than the one we received from the right alliance in 2015 ; and to give our parents and our older brothers living conditions better than those that the right government, which preceded us, looked forward to them, asking them to emigrate. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the word austerity has often been heard here in these two days. Tells us the left to our left that austerity has returned, tells us the right that austerity is encapsulated. But the Portuguese know what Budgets of austerity are, remember them, when they were used and when they were abused to go beyond external requirements. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in an austerity budget, there is a brutal increase in taxes and a reduction in IRS steps. in this Budget, not only does no tax rate rise, as, with the new deployment of steps, the middle class receives more at the end of the month. It is 1 million and 500 thousand families who will benefit directly from this measure. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in an austerity budget, there is freezing of pensions or even its reduction through an extraordinary contribution of fierce solidarity, and even an unconstitutional attempt to cut the value of pensions. in this Budget, the rule of higher pensions is met and there is also an extraordinary update for pensioners who receive up to € 1108, already with retroactive effects to January this year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in a austerity budget, there are cuts to the salaries of civil servants, declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court, and in this budget there are sustained increases in the salary mass of the Public Administration and there is recovery of income for all. In a austerity budget, support is cut off to those who need it most and, in this budget, we continue to increase social support and create extraordinary measures to protect those most exposed to the difficulties they face today. in an austerity budget, there are cuts in spending on education and health, there is the impoverishment of essential universal public services, and this budget has EUR 900 million to hire more teachers in the next two years and over EUR 700 million for the National Health Service to continue to respond to all Portuguese. In a austerity budget, public investment has always been sacrificed. in this budget, public investment is increased from 3, 8 % to 4, 9 % of GDP. Yeah, we know the difference between the right and the left. The Budget of the Right is that of the courts and austerity; the Budget of the Socialist Party, of the left party, is a Budget of strengthening the social state and is a Budget of solidarity and strength for the Portuguese economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: They may try to stir up ghosts, but the Portuguese know that this is a responsible budget, maintaining the budget consolidation trajectory. The Portuguese know that this is not an austerity budget. They will say-CL-me, in particular on our left, that there is a risk of real loss of purchasing power this year. There is, and say otherwise, it would be to cover the sun with a sieve, but, as far as it depends on the government, it will be mitigated and it will never be the government to promote an inflationist spiral, but it will respond to the challenges it poses. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Our option, in this Budget, is to create targeted support and incentives. They are answers to immediate problems, without ever losing sight of the competitiveness of our economy. We know what our commitment to the Portuguese is: do not promise illusory futures, nor allow unnecessary problems to continue. Here we will be to take all necessary steps, to keep the path that brought us from austerity to here, facing winds and tides. Everyone knows we haven't had, in Portugal, in the world, easy years, but the Portuguese know we never, never turned their backs. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yes, Portugal was severely affected by COVID-19, in many planes. We all have made a huge effort to ensure that the health crisis does not result in a social crisis. And we got it, we got it. If we had failed, surely the election results would not have been the ones. Yes, there is a war in Europe. We do not yet know how long it will last, nor the fullness of its harmful effects. We know, yes, that it will condition government action, indeed, it has already done so. Since the war started in Ukraine, Europe and Portugal have been confronted with a scenario that we all thought would not happen again. Portugal maintained a solidarity and humanist attitude, having already received 34 000 people under temporary protection, mostly women and children. Many of these children are already enrolled in our schools and some of their parents have already signed employment contracts, with guaranteed accommodation to whom they need. There are those who are quick to see these enormous conditions, generated by the war, a pretext for the failure to comply with the Government Programme and with electoral promises. But this government is not, because we know our direction and our commitments. I regret that the momentum of the PRR has not been appreciated in this debate and that it has even been attacked by the most conservative forces. But this is also a Budget of recovery and resilience. If the right one looks at this Budget as if it does not see our redistribution policies, which, in the background, thinks even extemporaneous and hasty, in its austere mind; if the left one looks at this Budget as if it does not see the strategic centrality of public investment, in creating conditions for a new competitiveness; if the left and right converge, tactically, in the devaluation of the importance of reducing debt and keeping the deficit controlled; if the left and right one pretends not to understand that a prisoner State of creditors is a state conditioned in its policies; if the left and right deny that the progressive increase in our budgetary space is decisive for the effectiveness of public policies, we must only say that this is a Budget that responds to all the demands we face and a sign of all the budgets that will follow. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They will all be equal in budgetary consolidation, in the effort to return to a more sustainable debt and in the fight against the illusion that there are no resources, as in inflationist spirals, in which there are unsustainable increases in public debt or accumulation of private debt. They will all be different, because every year we will try to use all the space that is responsible for our economic transformation agenda and improve living conditions. This year, we are focused on mitigating the effect of rising prices, maintaining the dynamic economy, protecting the middle classes and pensioners, combating the poverty of children, particularly in their most extreme form, strengthening public investment, improving education and health. This is what the Budget brings to the Portuguese, this is our way, 184 days later, with the certainty that the Portuguese share our ambition for Portugal, Portugal, for the Portuguese, for all those who choose to live in Portugal. [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u597	After the debate, we shall begin the voting period. I would ask the services which operate the electronic quorum verification system and the Members. Members and Members of Parliament. [[Pause.]] I ask the services to close the quorum check and present the results. [[Pause.]] I ask the House whether any Member or Member has not been able to register.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u598	Mr. President, I couldn't register.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u599	It's noted, Mrs. Deputy. I can see that Mr Rui Cristina of the PSD has not been able to register either. We have a quorum, there are 226 Members present, and then we are in a position to vote. We begin with the general vote on the Proposal for a Law No 4 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2022. Who votes in favour? [[Pause.]] Vote for PS. Who's away? [[Pause.]] They abstain from the PAN and the Free. The bill was passed, with votes in favour of the PS, abstentions... [[Mr President, you have not asked who votes against!]] [[Mr President, you have not asked who votes against!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u600	The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, would you like me to ask? [[Yes!]] [[Yes!]] [[Yes!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u601	Yes, gentlemen, very well. Who votes against? [[Pause.]] They vote against the PSD, the CH, the IL, the BE, and the PCP. [[Currently, public presence in the galleries rose to vote against the Bill No 4/XV/1.a.]] I recall that the people in the galleries do not participate in the vote and must show respect for the normal outcome of the vote. If they cannot show such respect, they must leave the Chamber. [[Pause.]] [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against the PS, CH, IL, the PCP and BE and abstentions of the PAN and L.]] [[PS applause, stand up.]] [[At the moment, there were protests from the public that was still present in the galleries.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to send the public out of the galleries. [[Pause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the proposed law now adopted is low to 5. the Commission. We now proceed to the vote on the draft vote No 43 / XV / 1. a ( Presented by CH) — Regret for the death of Sergeant-Assistant Parachute Alexandra Serrano Rosa. I would ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read the draft vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u602	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Alexandra Maria Damião Serrano Rosa was the first women to stop. He took the paratrooper course still in the Air Force in 1992, before the'stops' passed to the Army. He started his career as a square, having been accepted in the course of sergeants for the transmission weapon. He quickly returned to the airborne troops, and at present he was the only woman instructing that military force. The military will always be known by the iconic figure and eximilar professional competence, in a special troop in which its status as a woman was never a limiting factor, on the contrary. He grew up among comrades of arms admiration and esteem reinforced by his gentle and relaxed character, as witnessed by those who knew him. Alexandra died at 52 years of age to teach and give Portugal. Sergeant-Assistant Parachute Alexandra Serrano Rosa is a daughter of a military, also a parachute, who served in the Ultramar—Sergeor-mor Serrano Rosa. Father and daughter are examples of patriotism and last public service, and therefore he also deserves a word of special appreciation and sympathy for his invaluable loss. The military condition ends in itself a duty of constant availability and self-denial, even in activities of greater danger and risk, either in fulfilling the assigned missions, or in qualifying and training activities. In any of these situations, the death of a military is a loss to the service of the homeland that deserves public recognition and exaltation. The Assembly of the Republic, which met in plenary session, thus came with deep regret, to express condolences to its family, friends, the Armed Forces and, in particular, all the paratroopers and former paratroopers. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u603	We shall proceed to the vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] I ask the House to accompany me in a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We now resign from the government and continue to vote. Mrs. Members, we will vote on draft resolution No 36 / XV / 1. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to Timor-Leste. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 37 / XV / 1. a ( PAR) — Movement of the President of the Republic to London and Andorra. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote on the Draft Deliberation No 2 / XV / 1. a ( PAR) — Suspension of parliamentary committees' work during the budgetary procedure. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We then vote on the Draft of Deliberation No. 3 / XV / 1. a ( PAR) — Composition of the delegations of the Assembly of the Republic to international parliamentary organizations in the XV legislature. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS and the L, votes against the CH and abstentions against the IL, the CFP, the BE and the NAP.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 54 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Reduce the VAT rate of veterinary acts to 6 %. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of IL, BE, PAN and L and abstentions from PSD, CH and PCP.]] We proceed with the general vote of Bill No 56 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Reduces the VAT rate applicable to veterinary services. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of CH, IL, BE and PAN and abstentions from PSD, PCP and L.]] We will generally vote for Bill No 57 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — applies the reduced rate of VAT to medical veterinary acts. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of IL, BE, PAN and L and abstentions from PSD, CH and PCP.]] We then vote, in general, the Bill No. 58 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Reduction of VAT on food and drink services to the reduced rate of 6 % ( amendment to the value added tax code approved by Decree-Law No 394 - B / 84 of 26 December ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH and the IL and abstentions of the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L.]] The general vote on the Bill No 5 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 73 / 2021 of 12 November. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS and the BE and with abstentions from the PS, the CH, the IL, the CFP, the NAP and the L.]] We shall then proceed to the vote on the speciality of the Bill No 5 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ). We begin by voting on the proposal submitted by the PSD to replace Article 1. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, BE, PAN and L and votes against the PS, CH, IL and PCP were rejected.]] It was as follows: Article 1. o Subject matter This Act seeks to repeal Law No 73 / 2021 of 12 November, which introduced amendments to the Internal Security Act, the Criminal Investigation Organization Act and the Organic Laws of PSP and GNR.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u604	We shall then proceed to the vote on Article 1. The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, BE and L and with abstentions from PS, CH, IL, PCP and PAN.]] The proposal submitted by the PSD to replace Article 2 should now be voted on. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, BE, PAN and L and votes against the PS, CH, IL and PCP were rejected.]] It was as follows: Article 2 the Revoking Standard 1 — Law No 73 / 2021 of 12 November approving the restructuring of the Portuguese border control system by recasting the regime of forces and services engaged in internal security activities and laying down other rules for the rehabilitation of powers and resources of the Foreign and Frontier Service, amending Laws No 53 / 2008 of 29 August, 53 / 2007 of 31 August, 63 / 2007 of 6 November and 49 / 2008 of 27 August, and repealing Decree-Law No 252 / 2000 of 16 October. 2 — Law No 89 / 2021 of 16 December is also repealed. 3 — All legal provisions repealed by Law No 73 / 2021 of 12 November shall be re-repeated.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u605	We shall then proceed to the vote on Article 2. The proposal of the law...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u606	Mr President, I am sorry, but I think we can vote on Articles 2 together. o is 3. o
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u607	Does anyone oppose the suggestion of the honourable Member for a block vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u608	I am sorry, Mr President, but the Free will has a different explanation of vote in each of the articles, so it cannot vote in bloc.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u609	So, let's go in good order. We shall vote for Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS and BE and with abstentions from PS, CH, IL, CCP, PAN and L.]] The vote on Article 3 shall follow. The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, BE and L and with abstentions from PS, CH, IL, PCP and PAN.]] We can proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the Bill No 5 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 73 / 2021 of 12 November. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS and the BE and with abstentions from the PS, the CH, the IL, the CFP, the NAP and the L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u610	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u611	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u612	Mr President, to inform you that I will make a written statement of vote on the vote we have just made.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u613	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u614	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u615	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u616	Mr President, I would like to request the waiver of final drafting and the deadline for complaints against inaccuracies concerning this bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u617	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on this oral request by the PS. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS and the PCP and with abstentions from the PS, CH, IL, BE, PAN and L.]] We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 34 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Renews the restructuring of the Portuguese Border Control System under Law No 73 / 2021 of 12 November, restating the organic structure and missions of the Foreign and Border Service. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PAN and the L, votes against the PS, the CH and the IL and the abstention from the CFP.]] The general vote of Bill No 37 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PCP ) — Repeals the extinction of the Foreign and Border Service. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, BE, PAN and L and votes against the PS, CH, IL and PCP were rejected.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on an opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members. I would ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to give us an account of this opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u618	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the District of Northern Lisbon — Judge of Vila Franca de Xira — Judge 1, Case No 4275 / 17.8T8VFX, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr João Miguel Nicolau ( PS ) to give written testimony as a witness within the scope of those cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u619	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the opinion that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I now ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to inform the House of the results of the elections to the external bodies, which took place during this day. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u620	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, with regard to the election to the Council of State, presented two lists, List A and List B. in a universe of 226 voters, List A obtained 171 votes and List B obtained 15 votes, with 8 votes white and 32 votes null. in these terms, and in view of the result obtained, the candidates Carlos César ( PS ), Francisco Pinto Balsamão ( PSD ), Manuel Alegre ( PS ), António Sampaio da Nóvoa ( PS ) and Miguel Cadilhe ( PSD ) are declared elected. As for the election to the National Defence Superior Council, 226 Members voted, with 172 votes in favour, 47 white votes and 7 null votes. The elected representatives of Francisco César ( PS ) and Fernando Negrão ( PSD ) are hereby declared elected. As regards the election for the Committee on Access to Administrative Documents, in a universe of 226 voters the following results were recorded: 172 votes in favour, 47 white votes and 7 zero votes. in these terms, the candidates Tiago Sistelo Fidelgo de Freitas ( PS ) and João Carlos da Silva Bastos Dias Coelho ( PSD ) are elected as effective members, and Maria Luís Pereira Vaz ( PS ) and Silvia Damila Macedo Lino Gonçalves ( PSD ) as alternate members. As for the election to the Internal Security Council, 226 Members voted, with 163 votes in favour, 54 white votes and 9 null votes. In view of the results obtained, the elected representatives Paulo Araújo Correia ( PS ) and André Coelho Lima ( PSD ) are declared elected. As regards the election to the office of President of the Economic and Social Council, the following result was found: they voted 226 Members, and 192 votes were recorded in favour, 31 white votes and 3 null votes. Thus President Francisco de Assisi declared himself elected. As regards the election to the Higher Information Council, 226 Members voted and 169 votes were recorded in favour, 52 white votes and 5 null votes. The elected members are Filipe Neto Brandão ( PS ) and Carlos Eduardo Reis ( PSD ), as effective members, and João Paulo Rebelo ( PS ) and Paulo Moniz ( PSD ) as alternate members. As regards the election to the Supervisory Board of the Information System of the Portuguese Republic, 226 Members voted, with 159 votes in favour, 55 white votes and 12 null votes. The candidates Mário Belo Morgado, Joaquim Carlos Vasconcelos da Ponte and Constance Urbano de Sousa are elected. As regards the election to the Supreme Council of the Magistracy, 226 Members voted, and the following result was recorded: 175 votes in favour, 45 white votes and 6 votes in null. The candidates José Manuel Mesquita, Fernando Licínio Lopes Martins, André Filipe Oliveira de Miranda, Inês Vieira da Silva Ferreira Leite, Antonio Alberto Vieira Cura, Telma Solange Silva Carvalho and Antonio José Barradas Leitão, as effective members, and Paulo Rui da Costa Valério, Carla Susana Gomes Naia, Rafael Luís Vale and Reis and Ana de Oliveira and Silva de Oliveira Monteiro, as alternate members. With regard to the election to the Supreme Council of the Public Ministry, in a universe of 226 voting Members, 167 votes in favour, 50 white votes and 9 null votes were recorded. They declare themselves elected, as effective members, Vania Gonçalves Álvares, Rui Manuel Portugal da Silva Leal, Luís Moreira Testa, Pedro Gonçalo Roque Ángelo and Antonio Manuel Tavares de Almeida Costa and, as alternate members, Mariana Polido Almeida, José Alberto Jacob Simões and Joana Maria Mendes Alves. With regard to the election to the National Elections Commission, the following result was found: 226 Members voted, with 198 votes in favour, 25 white votes and 3 null votes. in these terms, candidates Fernando Anastácio ( PS ) are declared elected, Cristiana Vera Mendes Romeira Alves dos Santos Penedo ( PSD ), Fernando José Silva ( CH ), Frederico Ferreira Valente Nunes ( IL ), João Manuel Rosa de Almeida ( PCP ) and Gustavo Weigert Behr ( BE ). As for the election to the Supreme Council for Cyberspace Security, two lists were presented, List A and List B. in a universe of 226 voters, List A obtained 174 votes and List B obtained 16 votes and 31 white votes and 5 no votes were recorded. in these terms, and in view of the result obtained, the elected members Bruno Aragão ( PS ) and Hugo Martins de Carvalho ( PSD ) are declared elected. As regards the election to the Board of Supervisors of the Integrated Criminal Information System, the following result was found: 226 Members voted, with 146 votes in favour, 70 white votes and 10 null votes. In legal terms and in view of the result obtained, the candidate Anabela Damásio Caetano Pedroso is not elected.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u621	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there are now announcements of initiatives which have been admitted, however, and I would ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha again to give us an account of them.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u622	Mr. President and Mr. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, the Draft of Deliberation No 3 / XV / 1. a ( PAR), which has already been voted on, and draft resolution No 43 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ).
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u623	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, from today on, we will enter the process of discussion, in the speciality, of the State Budget and the next plenary session will therefore take place on 23 May, having as an agenda the discussion, in the speciality, of the proposed State Budget Act. Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha still has one last information to give us, so you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u624	Mr President, I just wanted to inform the House that Mr. Miguel Cabrita ( PS ) and Mrs. Inês Barroso ( PSD ) were present at this plenary session by video conference.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-29.u625	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. I wish everyone a very good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 2 minutes.]]
