ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We already have quorum and all parliamentary groups are represented. We shall then begin our session. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the galleries to the public. There is no record to read, so we are on the agenda today, the first point of which is the current debate required by the PSD on the privatization of TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ). To open the debate, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulo Moniz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u2	H.E. Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : In December of this year, TAP will receive the last public capital injection of EUR 990 million. By adding to the amount already injected in the last two years, following the decision of the Socialist Government of Nationalisation of 100 % of the TAP, the EUR 3, 2 billion injections are made. The European Commission has banned — and well! — this government should put more than...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u3	This one and everyone else!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u4	... in the next 10 years, from January 2023. The privatization of the TAP explicitly consisted of the heritage will left in the Memorandum of Troika, negotiated and signed by the Government of the Socialist Party of José Socrates and Teixeira dos Santos, as a result of the bankruptcy to which the Socialist Party, for the third time, led the Country. [[PSD applause.]] Privatization has become urgent. It was a aggravated operational emergency. In 2015, the operational result was 117 million euros negative and there was simply no money to pay for the fuel (the planes do not fly without fuel ), no money to implement the urgent fleet renewal actions and to meet the lease commitments (TAP does not exist without planes), no strategic definition of business modernization and rejuvenation and there was a need to promote the alienation of ruinous businesses — TAP does not exist without workers, and they need to, and they deserve, stability. It was up to the PSD/CDS government to find a solution that, by the good name of Portugal, would honour the commitments signed and signed by others and that, at the same time, would guarantee stability and dishonor the Portuguese state and taxes of all Portuguese taxpayers. The government of António Costa decided to change ideologically, but without a strategy, the rules of the game: the state had to stop 50% of the TAP. The « PREIC », an ongoing ideological revision programme, was one of the pillars of the exclusively dogmatic matrix of the political program of the PS. The result that would lead this new old path was of little importance, it was necessary to strengthen management. The rest was really that: the rest. To prove its subjugation to the will of the left-wing partners, Antonio Costa again put the money of the Portuguese at risk, exposing it to a repeatedly deficit company and accepting the condition of not controlling management. By translating, he paid with the money of all of us 50% of the TAP repurchasing and did not send anything to the company, never technically justifying this decision, according to the Court of Auditors, in 2018.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u6	In March 2020 the tourism industry completely stopped with the pandemic, generating an unprecedented wave of cancellations. The chance of putting TAP under the European aid programme because of the COVID-19 has gone fat. In June 2020 the European Commission announced that the TAP was not eligible for this programme by ordering a new immediate restructuring plan. This means that the Portuguese Government has not proved the viability and sustainability of the company, which has re-purchased private people. It accumulated a decade of losses, hundreds of millions of euros, and only in 2017 had a marginally positive net result. In addition to the losses of 2020, 2021 and the first half of 2022, we have reached a total of more than EUR 3 billion of losses. We all heard last week, through social communication, that TAP ordered 50 luxury cars for administration and directors,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u7	Luxury? Oh, my God! The BMW X2?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u8	... replacing the fleet in use. It was not the public dispute and the repair of Mr. President of the Republic, this decision would have been maintained. The severity of this episode cannot go unnoticed. These are immoral decisions, which discredit the State and confront the Portuguese in the restrictions and difficulties imposed on them constantly. [[PSD applause.]] Having EUR 3 billion of damage and 50 new luxury cars goes beyond the lack of common sense, extravagant and reveals the inadequacy, on all lines of action, of management not focused on containment, rigor and unequivocally good use of public money. Who has no money doesn't do this! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u9	Mr Prime Minister said in this Parliament that it would be irresponsible to ensure that the state will not lose money with the privatisation that is expected to take place in the next 12 months. As if a statement of this kind attenuated what has been done so far... Mr. Prime Minister was responsible for reversing the situation of the TAP and forced all Portuguese to be debtors of all the damage, money that the country does not have and that lacks and will do, in these times of uncertainty. [[PSD applause.]] Support for families and businesses, for the economy, for pensioners to defray hundreds of millions of euros in areas without sustainability and with dubious sustainability is decreasing. They have hurried a ruinous purchase, which has absorbed EUR 3 billion from all of us, and now they are quick to sell in 12 months, without ever having the humility to assume that they have been wrong across the line. [[PSD applause.]] In debate today, there is much more than the TAP airline; this is a debate about the decency of the management of the thing and of the public cause and the strict and partial use of the public money that the Portuguese entrust them to be used without waste and irresponsibility. [[PSD applause.]] This is a debate about the decency of political action, the rigor of governance and the dignity of the State. [[PSD applause.]] For decent people, guilt does not die single and, when it fails, it is assumed that it has failed. The PSD has been, is and will always be in front of the defense of this country, in front of a responsible government, in defense of the Portuguese and in defense of the good name of Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u10	To open the debate on behalf of the Government, Mr Pedro Nuno Santos, Minister for Infrastructure and Housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u11	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: The government has been called to participate today in an up-to-date debate on the subject, and I quote « privatisation of TAP ». It is in the spirit of transparency, humility and conviction that the Government comes to this House to take on and discuss all strategic decisions taken in relation to the airline. However, it is not possible to emphasise the irony of this debate that was required by the only party represented in this House who had never had the courage to tell the country what decision it would have taken in 2020 was government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] at the end of these two and a half years, the PSD continues to be unable to take a clear position, continues to steal an open and courageous discussion and fail the responsibility to say what was, after all, its solution to solve the emergency that the TAP faced when the impact of the pandemic forced her to leave all her planes on the ground. In the background, the PSD, on the theme of TAP, as in many others, chooses to behave more as a protest party than as a government party. The PSD invokes the budgetary costs represented by the TAP rescue. The country knows them well, the government has never hidden them: much of these costs have been financed by the taxpayers and another by its workers, who have the wages cut, and by the company itself, who today has its limited activity. What the PSD fails is how much it would cost the country if the company had failed by 2020. Without public intervention, TAP would close doors and the country would lose one of the largest domestic exporters, responsible for EUR 3 billion in external sales, of which EUR 1000 million net; a company that made EUR 1, EUR 3 billion in purchases to more than 1000 national companies; a company that avoids EUR 700 million in imports into tickets, which, in the absence of TAP, Portuguese would have to buy foreign airlines to travel.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u12	That's not what's at stake!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u13	But the end of TAP would bring more than the end of a company; it would bring an end to a business model that makes Humberto Delgado Airport a hub, a rotating passenger platform that TAP brings from the American and African continents and distributes through Portugal and across Europe. Portugal is an entry and exit door in Europe because of the TAP and the hub. The disappearance of the TAP would not only require the Portuguese to take connecting flights to Madrid, the end of the TAP would mean the delivery of a business of billions of euros to Spain. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are two false ideas in this whole debate that the PSD continues to feed. The first is that the government nationalised TAP in 2020 because of the partial reversal of privatization made by the right in 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u14	Because of the management!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u15	They had no money to pay wages!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u16	This, however, is a narrative which has no basis;...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u17	Don't you? Oh, my
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u18	... and it does not have to be because the nationalisation of the company in 2020 would have to be done even if the TAP was, at the same time, totally private. Public intervention was not made for the company to be on the side of the State; it was made to ensure that the company did not close. What was at issue was not a public TAP or a private TAP, what was at stake was the survival or failure of TAP. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In view of their financing needs and the inability of the private shareholder to guarantee it, the State or intervention of the TAP at that time or let it fail. For us, it was always obvious that we couldn't let TAP fall. It was not therefore by any ideological whim that we intervened with TAP, but rather to prevent the damage resulting from its failure to the country from being much greater than its rescue cost. The second idea fuelled by the PSD is the narrative that the opening of the capital of TAP is a new idea of the government, torn apart from a strategy, even contradictory to the other narrative that the government would have nationalized the company by impulse or whimsical.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u19	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u20	This idea has no basis, because, from the beginning of this process, the government was clear in those who were their future plans for the company. I recall that at the time of the presentation of the restructuring plan already approved by the European Commission on 21 December last year, he said, and I quote, «we are working for TAP to be in a large aviation group, because it is the most solid way for its long-term viability »,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u22	... as it had also stated a year earlier, in December 2020, even before the plan was sent to Brussels, which, I quote, « is very difficult for an airline to survive alone in the global aviation world ». This position is the one which, with great consistency, I have defended since the beginning of this process. It was always clear to us that in such a highly globalized and competitive market, TAP would not be able to survive alone in the medium term. The integration of TAP into a group would create important synergies and would bring resilience to face the volatile nature of aviation. This can be the only way to ensure the viability of a strategic company for the country. The opening of the capital of TAP will be decided in time and in the way that best defends the national interest, but a guarantee can be given: we will not repeat the sale made by the right, finished at the closed door, two days after they know that your government would fall, into a business that, even today, has not been sufficiently explained to the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD MP Protests António Proa.]] They sold TAP for EUR 10 million, but the State took responsibility for all the debt prior to privatisation and also for the future, if the new owner of the company went into default. And the State has made this commitment through several letters of comfort—I have them here, if you want to see them — passed to banks and other financial institutions, where it undertakes to buy all the shares of the TAP SGPS (Sociedad Managere de Participantios Sociales) in the event of a definitive breach by the company. In practice, according to the Court of Auditors, mentioned above, the State assumes responsibility for the financial debt of TAP SGPS invests it objectively in a position materially similar to that of the quality of public shareholder. That is, if the business went wrong to the private, the state would buy the company and pay the debts. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u23	Mr. Minister, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u24	I will finish, Mr. President. As if this were not enough, they still announced a capitalisation of EUR 224 million by the private sector, which, in practice, resulted exclusively in more financial commitments for the company, a value far higher than what was injected by the new owner. With this government, an opening of the capital of TAP will always have to ensure conditions for the company to be more competitive and sustainable in the future and at the same time allow the expansion of the largest activity of national aviation: our hub. The hub gives Portugal the centrality in the Atlantic which does not have on the European continent. Protect it and defend it is the best way for TAP to serve the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u25	At the conclusion of the debate, we started the first round. The first speaker is Mr Carlos Pereira of the Socialist Party. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Mr Secretary of State, Dear Members, Mr Paulo Moniz, I cannot help but comment, which I believe is quite relevant after the intervention which Mr Minister for Infrastructure has just made. This is not a 'decent debate', as you said. This is a debate promoted by people who lie, as has been demonstrated by the Minister of Infrastructure. [[All right!]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u27	I'll demonstrate what you just did. In view of the fact that the honourable Member has decided to make a sort of timeline on what happened with TAP and has hidden a set of information that was relevant to that timeline, I will remember those that did not. The honourable Member said that in 2015 it was very urgent to privatize the company because it had negative results of EUR 217 million. I said that. We realize that this urgency was so much that Dr. Passos Coelho made this privatisation, negotiated it - in pre-campaign, made the agreement when the elections had already ended - it was not government - that he did the privatisation at 25. The hour, in a hidden office, in the dark, at night. PSD protest.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u28	That's also what the PS does! It's always through the silence of the night!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u29	When I knew the PS was against it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u30	We all know what that means from the point of view of the transparency of the process, when I knew that in this House there were parties that were absolutely against this privatization. But he said that at that time it was urgent because there were 217 million euros of negative results. Now, that « stairway vain » partner that you found to privatize the company between 2018 and 2019 had promised 220 million euros of profit. You know what happened? Oh, my God! We had a hole of EUR 400 million in the company — I repeat, EUR 400 million! Not only did we have no profit, as we have suffered losses of EUR 160 million. [[Protests by PSD Member Paulo Moniz.]] That is what you have done with the privatization options! But more, Mr President: after all these years of pandemic — it was in 2020 that two years have passed — the Minister remembered, from that rostrum, and very well, that the honourable Members. PSD Members, all of them in the front row, had the opportunity to talk about the TAP, and all of you. Members had the opportunity to say what they would do with the company in 2020. This is perhaps the most important answer the Portuguese have to know, because you either want to be the Arrival, or the Free, or the Left Block, or whatever, because you do not want to be responsible from the point of view of the country's government options. They define, once and for all, what they want to do with TAP, or what they would have done with TAP, when it was in a difficult situation because of the pandemic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, Mr President, you have not responded, nor do you answer, because you have no idea what you would have done at the time, they had no plan for the TAP, no plan for the TAP, no B, no C, no D, no E. they had nothing, they did nothing. It was this government that determined that it would endure the company, not for profit reasons, as you often like to say, or the Liberal Initiative likes to mention, but for macroeconomic reasons, because it seems obvious to me, for reasons that have already been widely disclosed over the past few months, that TAP has a significant impact on the country and would have a negative systemic impact on the country. The government chose to support the company. That's what we did and the result was a restructuring plan. This is a restructuring plan that was tough, difficult and required very difficult negotiations with trade unions. Not all were well, because there were reductions in wages, there were layoffs of workers. But this restructuring plan is under way, and that is absolutely essential. What I see in this debate today is that you follow the line of action, let me use this expression, « made by Luís Montenegro », because they remind me of what happened in the years 2016 and 2017, about the General Deposit Box. Well, it's worth remembering, because I think it's very important to remember that. Do you know what happened to the General Deposit Box? Oh, my God! I will tell you: there was a restructuring plan negotiated by the Portuguese Government. During these years of negotiation, do you know what Luís Montenegro, Passos Coelho and the entire PSD bench did? I will say, reading some news headlines: « General Deposit Box — PSD has many doubts about the cash recapitalisation process »; « PSD supports new Committee of Inquiry on Cash recapitalisation » A company, a living bank, and you wanted an inquiry committee. [[PSD protests.]] « General Deposit Box — PSD or recapitalisation plan in the commission of inquiry » ; « PSD questions the existence of recapitalisation for the General Deposit Box. » They even questioned the existence of recapitalization! More: « Thirty questions sent to António Costa — what the PSD wants to know about the General Deposit Box »; « Process called to Parliament to explain damage to the Box. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Today's TAP!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u31	Mr President, we understand what you are doing because you have done the same thing with the restructuring plan. As long as it was not approved, you made a mistake so that the restructuring plan for the TAP would not be approved by Brussels.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u32	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u33	But it has been approved by Brussels and there is a course to be taken to save the company.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u34	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u35	Mr. Member, we know that all this is difficult, but what we're doing is to save such an important company...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u36	Mr. Carlos Pereira...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u37	I'm done now, Mr. President. To save a company...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u38	Mr. Carlos Pereira, I am sorry, unfortunately, you are a bit of a user in this, but first of all, when I speak, you have to interrupt your speech to listen to me. [[Applause from the CH.]] After that, you have exceeded your intervention time and I therefore ask you to conclude. We have a very heavy agenda this afternoon. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u39	Thank you very much, Mr President. I conclude by saying that, for the Socialist Party, on the subject of this debate, it is very important to say that we have never changed our mind about the importance of having a strategic partner in the company. [[PSD laughter.]] This importance will be emphasized in the coming days and we will do everything we can to avoid doing what you have done, which was to have a partner of "scale vain" who made the company what we know. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u40	On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulo Moniz now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Carlos Pereira, began by speaking on the PSD solution for TAP. Mr. Deputies, this is starting to be a bit chronic. Let me remind you that you did the same at the airport, for which, for seven years, you have not been able to unblock a process which is, in fact, fundamental to the TAP. The President of the TAP Board of Directors says that much of the constraints happen because the problem is not at the airport solved. Fortunately, the PSD helped the PS see the light and could do the study, so that within a year it had the airport. [[PSD applause.]] Mr President, I am beginning to be concerned because, if the Socialist Party understands that it wants the PSD to give all the solutions to govern, we will have an immense difficulty in being opposition and, of course, being consultants of the Socialist Party. [[All right!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u42	It is up to the government to govern, and that is why it has this responsibility, but the different thing is to govern well. When he brought up the issue of PSD intervention in the privatisation of TAP, he forgot a detail and failed the truth. I'm not saying you're a liar, I'm a person who has a good opinion of colleagues, but you've failed the truth because you've just forgotten. With regard to this matter, what has happened is that the solution found by the PSD/CDS Government was the only possible solution in the emergence of no money for wages the next day. You know why? Oh, my God! Because the European Union did not allow capital injection, because it was a State aid which was prohibited by competition. This part you didn't say! [[PSD applause.]] With regard to the Minister in April, I had the opportunity to try to help him and tell him, before a government that did not seem very supportive to me, at least because of the physionomies, that, this year, the loss of the TAP would probably be a grand order close to what you wanted to put in this year's budget in April. We heard that the semester closed with 200 million euros of damage. We have heard from Mr President of the Management Board that there are fears about the second half of the year, and if we are to extrapolate — usually even more — we will have values in the order of EUR 400 million, those I have warned you that they could be dangerous for their political survival and survival. But I admit until they're gone. I admit it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u43	Yeah, it's better!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u44	I don't like to make predictions, I'm very strict in my analysis, but what happens in this case is important. Notice: you made a proposal for a privatisation business model at which time you wanted Parliament to speak. As you recall, Mr. Prime Minister gave him his first draw of ears and said: « Mr. Minister, you are government, you have to rule! Parliament has its mission, the government has an executive mission. » It is certainly remembered that first of Mr. Prime Minister's ears are drawn.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u45	And you've been grateful!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u46	In fact, today I am beginning to feel that Mr. Prime Minister knew what he was doing, because he inevitably knew that Mr. Minister, at the end of the restructuring plan, would lose EUR 3000 million from the Portuguese. When that happens, it will no longer be enough for you to apologize for a serious mistake, because the Portuguese will lose EUR 3000 million. That's the point! [[PSD applause.]] Does the Minister know, per day, in 2020, in 2021 and in the first half of this year, what is the burning of tax money that TAP makes to the Portuguese? It is EUR 4 million per day. When it comes to midnight... [[Protests by the Minister of Infrastructure and Housing.]] These are the results that are recorded, Minister. Don't say no, it's the results. If divided by the number of days, every day, when arriving at midnight, more than 4 million euros of Portuguese taxes were burned. [[PSD applause.]] Are you convinced, Mr Minister, that the buyer of TAP, whoever he is, will carry out the added value compared to the EUR 3200 million that we — we, people, us, countries — have injected into TAP? Are we going to make a more-value, recover them, and perhaps even make a profit? Lufthansa and the German state did so. The German State has placed EUR 3, EUR 8 billion in Lufthansa. It has already left, but it has come out with a further value of EUR 760 million. Do you think we're going to have a more value in Portuguese operation? We're not going. No, we're not gonna have, don't get any illusions! At the end of this, we will be at the same point of departure. We are going to have a company with losses and a very serious problem, which is the Portuguese with less than EUR 3000 million. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u47	This, Minister, has a political responsibility, due to the harmful political management of a dossier which, politically, is very expensive to the Portuguese. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u48	This responsibility is yours and the one who will crush you is Mr. Prime Minister. Get ready, I told you in April, and now I fear it will be inexorable. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u49	To take part in the debate on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party, Mr Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u50	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members, other members of the government, Minister, the reason why we are here is not only about TAP, but also about its enormous political fragility. If we are here today to manage a difficult dossier for the country, it is up to the position in which Mr. Minister is, after announcing an airport that was not a airport, two airports that were not, after all, not two airports, in a solution in which no one believed in his bench, except his friend and parliamentary leader Eurico Brillante Dias, and that the Prime Minister himself ultimately came to deny, with all the bullshits that have been his, or, worse, his government, disallowing him. The reason why we are here today is because you are here alone, without support from anyone on the bench of the Socialist Party and of Antonio Costa as Prime Minister. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Yes, Minister, there is no doubt — because no one already has them in the country — that if anyone wants to take the carpet away from him, it is not enough either the Liberal Initiative or the PSD. If anyone wants to take off his rug is Antonio Costa and two thirds of the Socialist Party bench. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u51	I would ask you to listen carefully.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u52	Mr Minister, having your support board to talk about the General Deposit Box should at least be embarrassing. I don't know if it's another million at midnight or not, sir, but there's one thing I know: since the administration of the Socialist Party government, we spent 20 billion at BES ( Banco Espírito Santo ), the General Deposit Box and the TAP. Repeat : in BES, in the General Deposit Box and in the TAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u53	Ah, O BES! That was about the time of the PSD government! BES is more to this side!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u54	Twenty billion costs — and I wanted people to know — €70 per month to each Portuguese worker. The honourable Member is sitting there on 70 € of each worker, for TAP, BES, the New Bank and the General Bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u56	Therefore, when listening to any bench about the General Deposit Box, Mr. Carlos Pereira, I should put a poster ahead of you saying « shame of myself, shame of the PS and shame of those who, in this Chamber, make us steal money ». [[Congrats from the CH.]] But, Mr Minister, I think you should have the notion that Mr Carlos Pereira said: "The PS never changes its opinion on these matters. » It never changes, it's something inside and they never change their mind. In strategic business matters, they never change, except when they change, but, moreover, they never change. So I have here, for the Minister to see — I will bring you here, Mr Carlos Pereira — two news with the same man: Antonio Costa, Prime Minister of Portugal. The speaker showed two news stories. The first says: « António Costa determined to reverse privatisation of TAP and collective transport. « We must save the company, it is a fundamental strategic company » — António Costa, December 7, 2015. The second of September 29, 2022, says : « António Costa will reprivatize, with loss of money for taxpayers ».
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u57	They never change their mind!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u58	That is, they never change their mind, except when they have to change their mind and when they recognize the brutal failure that PS management has done in this matter. [[Congrats from the CH.]] So they never change, except when they have to change. The Minister said today, in his speech here, that the PS, the Government and the Minister recognise the strategic importance of the TAP and therefore recognize the importance of the TAP. First, they renationalized, then they said it was a good option, then they began to see that maybe it wasn't, the pandemic sent TAP completely "to the tank" and now they're going to privatize it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u59	You didn't understand anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u60	Yes, sir. I just don't understand how it was that one month ago the national strategic interest was so important and now it says it is important to give it to a European group, with privatization. By the way, maybe it would be important to explain that. How does a company — I wanted the Portuguese, at home, to realize this — that they have no money for wages, that they are making layoffs,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u61	He's hiring!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u62	...that you have already sent to the street I don't know how many people and that you are closing contracts every day with small businesses on which the Portuguese economy depends... [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] ... makes luxury purchases of Vista Alegre dishes, to put in the executive class, where the gentlemen travel. Ministers and where does the President of the Republic travel? [[Congrats from the CH.]] They have items from Vista Alegre dishes, paid with taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u63	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u64	They have executives in Madrid, who film themselves with phones like this,... [[Right now, the speaker showed a smartphone.]] ... with the money of the Portuguese taxpayers and who, above all, go, when they can, buy 79 luxury cars, worth 4, 5 million euros, when there is no money for strategic routes, there is no money to pay wages and there is no money for careers. Shame of the government and shame of the Socialist Party! That's what we have here in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u65	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u66	I shall conclude by saying the following: Mr Minister, I do not know how much longer you will be Minister of Infrastructure. I think that little, if I still know anything about the law of this country, but, above all, I know the Prime Minister who leads our government. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u67	But there is a file that will take you with you forever, whether you are a minister or not: it is the TAP management disaster, which will cost us all millions of jobs, millions of euros and millions of our lives and our economy. That will remain forever with you and with your government. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u68	To speak on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr Bernardo Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, we will quickly move on to the ideological side, which we already know makes a difference. Obviously, first of all, we argue that each family should not be obliged to pay 1000 euros for an airline that does not use. Secondly, we argue that the 3200 million should never have been put in the TAP, should have remained in the Portuguese pocket, in productive activities or, at least, in the minimum, have been used for policies. I recall here that the 2023 budget in support of families does not even reach the 990 million that will be put in the TAP this year in December. Thirdly, we stand for—I have not yet fully understood what the Minister is defending, because every month he changes — that the TAP should not have been nationalized and that it should be private, as is the overwhelming majority of Europe. So let us turn to the most practical questions. In 2015, a civic association led by various left-wing figures, socialist comrades and even Francisco Louçã, filed a complaint against the previous government, due to privatization, accusing him of damaging management, which then the Public Ministry, basically, withdrew. And one of the major criticisms was that which Mr Minister has made: that the state — also erroneously, in our view — has assumed the commitment of the debt of hundreds of millions. I don't know where those socialist comrades are now, but if those hundreds of millions were harmful management, what would be waste 3200 million euros? [[Applause from the IL.]] It is therefore easy to see that even the unions themselves now accuse the current management of being a harmful management and that several Portuguese say the same. It is that there is no kind of economic rationality presented and there has never been. By 2020, the first instalment of 1200 million was based on a liquidity plan that we had been asking for -- including, we had to go to court. There it came, after the deadlines passed, and there were three sheets, two graphs and one table, to justify EUR 1200 million. So I don't know what will be damaging management. The only way this is not to be harmful management is if TAP returns the money. So the first question is: will TAP or will not return the money? It is because we have been two and a half years, in fact, saying that this was not a loan, as the government has been saying — and lying — to the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u70	It's nothing like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u71	This was a donation. There are several statements, even the Prime Minister, saying this. It was no loan and it was soon realized when, in the supplementary budget, the 1200 million were placed as capital expenditure. So there was no loan anymore!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u72	You never understood!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u73	Now, it is even clearer when the Court of Auditors, in the opinion on the General State Account, says what? It says that "this can never be considered as a financial asset, it is an effective expense, because there is no financial return. Do not keep on seeking. ” Well, that's what we've been saying two and a half years ago, but it seems that Parliament and the country are starting to understand.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u74	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u75	What I am asking is whether you have the real courage to say here that TAP will not return a euro to the Portuguese people, because that is the truth. Or, then, you can assume that you're going to turn around and tell me how you're going to cover this hole. What the Liberal Initiative proposes is, as the PS did a few years ago, when it proposed the Court of Auditors' audit of reprivatization and repurchasing, we will also do an audit of the nationalization process. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u76	This is the most expensive socialist joke in the history of the country and therefore responsibility needs to be established. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u77	To speak on behalf of the PCP bench, you have the floor of Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Minister, in his speech, Mr Minister referred to the importance of TAP, the role of TAP in our country, which can contribute to the development of our economy. It is true that TAP has, in fact, a strategic role in terms of territorial cohesion, liaison with autonomous regions, liaison with Portuguese communities and Portuguese-speaking countries and intercontinental links. So the question I put to you is: recognizing the importance of TAP, why does the government intend to privatize it?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u79	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u80	It is more than proven that the privatization of TAP is harmful to our people and is harmful to our country. Just look at the examples of the various privatization attempts that have already occurred and when it has even been privatized. As long as it was possible for the private to withdraw from the TAP advantages, everything was very right; from the moment they began to arise difficulties, it disappeared. The questions that are raised and which I would like the Minister to be able to answer are: what is the Government's outlook and strategy for the TAP? Is it saving TAP and then privatizing her? To enter this cycle, which does not solve any problem for our country nor does it allow the development of the company itself to be put at the service of the interests of our country, of the national interests? This is what is necessary. We believe that public management is essential for this. It's true, the company's public control. It's a fact! But more is needed, it must be a management that is in fact at the service of national interests.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u81	And that's not it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u82	... and that these strategic principles that we have presented here are, in fact, ensured in that management. But does the Minister think that if TAP is ever again privatized by a large multinational company, these strategic objectives will be present? You think they're gonna be insured? Do you think so? What will effectively dictate management, as it has been in previous processes, is effectively the profitability and maximization of profit by these multinational companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u83	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u84	Therefore, when we present here the need for public control, to place the PATT as fundamental for the development of our country and for our economy and fundamental for territorial continuity, it is precisely because we consider that its management cannot be in this logic, as it has been, in fact, with the imposition of this restructuring plan. This plan no longer looks like a piece in this privatisation process,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u85	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u86	... where the company is already preparing to be handed over to a multinational, where workers are fired, cuts in wages and reduces the operation by the company, which can and should give much more to the country, as it has already done at various times.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u87	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u88	Therefore, Mr Minister, in this regard, to conclude, I would just like to say the following : if the privatisation of TAP had been realized, in the past, particularly with Switzerland, TAP, today no longer existed. Is that what we want for our country?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u89	But Swissair was very good! He was a great partner!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u90	Is that what we want for the development of our country? I don't think you are, Minister. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u91	To speak on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is no surprise about the right position on the TAP. The privatisation will is prior to the injection of public money into the TAP and is independent of the financial performance of the company. The PSD has already privatized very profitable companies in the past, this argument does not match. But whether or not it agrees with the injection of public capital into the TAP, I must say that I regret Mr. Paulo Moniz's statements, when he praises the fact that the European Commission has banned any further intervention in the TAP. Good or bad, decisions on national resources must be sovereign and must be taken by the Assembly of the Republic and by the Members elected by the country. [[PSD protests.]] I think it is regrettable that you are here to praise Parliament's freedom to make decisions on national remedies. I can also point out that in all this debate the PSD cannot say one thing: whether or not it would let TAP fail. It's very simple. Did you let TAP fall or didn't you let TAP fall?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u93	Of course I did!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u94	Coming to debate, talking about loudness and criticizing without ever presenting an alternative is very easy, but we can't understand, either about the TAP or about the airport, what is the PSD option for decisions that are important to the country. Or do you want the European Commission to decide on this, so that the PSD does not have to worry about important decisions? [[PSD protests.]] There is a surprise, Mr Minister, in the PS position because this is made of zigzags. The PS in the past wanted to privatize TAP. Then, in 2015, it understood that participation was strategic and therefore the state stood at 50 %. This participation was extended to 100 % because the private party did not want to support the company. I repeat : because the private has not been able to support the company, and only for this reason, is that the state has been 100 %. And now, in the order of the European Commission, the company is financed, workers are cut off, wages are cut off, the company's activity is damaged and the balance sheet is cleared. And for what? To privatize her? To hand it over to a private? The question put here is the only one that makes sense: if the company is strategic - and the Minister has just made a statement here strengthening all the arguments that justify why the company is strategic - why will he hand it over to a large international company? TAP will not be strategic if it is a regional line of a large international company. And in the name of transparency, which Mr Minister, moreover, criticised here that the PSD did not have, the Minister has an obligation to tell the House of the Republic — I believe that he respects it — what he will do with the TAP, that is, if he is going to privatize, who, like, when the model is the percentage. The Government must be transparent in relation to the plans of the TAP and I believe that this information is due to us. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u95	To speak on behalf of the NAP, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister and other members of the government, much has already been said here today, but it is important to say very clearly to those who are there at home that the one who has been the injection of public capital into the TAP, the 3200 million already mentioned here, will cost each taxpayer 310 €, i.e. three times more than the saying 125 € of support that the government now gives as if it were a great favor in this context of inflation. Except that the problem is not just this exorbitant value and the option of privatization or not, the problem begins, from then on, in terms of injection of this public money to then sell the TAP, it is known under what conditions, if at the expense, what percentage and what is the government will actually do, even to safeguard those who are the interests of the workers. More: the problem is also the lack of respect for the board of directors for public money, because already here we spoke in the BMWs and at the cost they would have,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u97	What's the cost?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u98	... but I remember—and it is important that this be said—that in the Supplementary Budget for 2020, the NAP proposed and alerted to the case of directors who received gold wages of €30 000,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u99	Only if you're a pilot!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u100	... may end the Assembly with these kinds of benefits and, for example, the addition of home or own car. At the time we wanted to prevent these far-fetched disappearances of public money but this proposal was plunged by this Parliament, with the abstention of the Arrival, with the vote against the PS, the PSD and the Block. We have now heard a number of criticisms, but Parliament did not do so when it had the opportunity to help the TAP board of directors. So, Minister, what is important at this time is where the government's courage is to put on the one hand in the direction of the board of directors and, on the other hand, what the Portuguese can expect from this privatisation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u101	To speak on behalf of the Free Party, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u102	Mr. President, Dear and Dear colleagues, Mr. Ministers, Mr Secretary of State, in that first half of 2020, dropping the TAP was such a good solution that no comparable country followed either with Lufthansa, nor with Air France, nor with KLM, in the liberal Netherlands, although today I will refuse to ask the Liberal Initiative if it has already launched an anathema about Mark Rutte, from the Netherlands, because the Liberal Initiative runs with a little sense of humor and then launches an anathema to me. No one followed her; Portugal put 3, 2 billion, the Netherlands put 3, 4 billion. The question is not whether there has been any injection of public money—left, center and right governments have done so—the question is whether the money is returned, the question is in the value that is created through the flag company. He said recently that the issue was not between a private TAP or a public TAP, but between an operating or closed TAP, but that is still the issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u103	It looks like Sorefame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u104	There are five essential pillars of the TAP mission : to ensure the overall connections of Portugal ; to ensure national cohesion; to make innovation and development, at a time when aviation is undergoing structural transformation; to support essential sectors of our economy such as tourism and to help Portugal rise on the scale of value. The question that we have to ask ourselves, and only one, is whether a private or public TAP best meets those designs, whether or not.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u105	I now give the floor to the Minister for Infrastructure and Housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. Paulo Moniz, no party here represented in the Assembly of the Republic, the other opposition parties who are here in the Assembly of the Republic, are ruling and therefore none of the other parties who are here have fled to defend themselves and take a stand. That's a good excuse, but it's not enough. [[P.S.'s applause.]] A party that wants to rule a country has, of course, also in opposition, to say what it would do if it were in government. That's what arrived, that's what IL did, that's what Block, PCP, Free and PAN did, but PSD zero. Why, sir? I give you back this question, because the courage to rule is the courage to make difficult decisions... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests and laughter.]] ...and the PSD doesn't have the courage to take what it would do. The outcome of the PSD speech was the end of the TAP ; it is not difficult to assume that the PSD position was the end of the TAP. Mr. Paulo Moniz made the following account: «I already told you in April»... [[Protests by PSD Member Paulo Moniz.]] ... — calm down, Mr Member — 'which, at the end of the year, will be EUR 400 million in damage on my account'.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u107	That's not what I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u108	If that's not what I said, that's what we all heard.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u109	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u110	I think you have to wait until the end of the year. We have heard criticisms of the disparity and disorientation in TAP management here. There is a carefully and demanding restructuring plan with the European Commission. If there is still someone in the PSD who knows what the relationship of a Government of the Republic with the European Commission is with the European Commission, he understands what I am saying when we talk about a difficult, thorough and closely monitored negotiation by Brussels. This restructuring plan was negotiated, this restructuring plan was approved by the European Commission. It was and is planned in the restructuring plan we reached a positive operational result in 2023, a net result of the positive exercise in 2025. Mr President, let me say that in the first half of 2022 TAP already has positive operational results. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, what was negotiated and agreed with Brussels was to achieve a positive operational result at the end of 2023 and we achieved a positive operational result at the end of the first half of 2022 — a positive operational result. The evaluation of the management of the company is the fulfilment of this restructuring plan. We can make a list of what we think are mismanagement decisions, but at the end of the day, what we are going to ask the administration is to comply with what has been negotiated, agreed and established with Brussels. It is now being fulfilled before the targets that have been set with Brussels. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PSD, the IL, the Arrival - the Arrival is different and we're going to arrive there -...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u111	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u112	The great concern of the PSD and the IL, and that the NAP has now reproduced — I always doubt the position of the NAP — is about what is being lost and what the Portuguese are enduring to endure the TAP, and whether the TAP will or will not pay for what was injected there. Now, what the right does not understand — nor will it ever understand, because it cannot separate from what the shareholder is from what is the country — is that the TAP is paying to the Portuguese since the first day it was saved, on passengers transported, in the exports it makes, in the purchases it makes to the other national companies, in the support it makes to tourism. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] What is truly important is what TAP provides to the country and that is where the government's decision to invest and save TAP is measured. The arrival has a different position. They accuse the populism, but what he did here was not populism, what he did here was deceive the Portuguese people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH's laughs.]] This is because of two: either you arrive and you keep the intention to save TAP and it costs public money, or you don't want to save TAP, you don't want to spend a penny of public money with TAP and you can't do the intervention that you did. That is why, Mr President, I tell you that you did not exercise populism here, you wanted to deceive the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]] He wants to show that he is concerned about the money that was injected into the TAP at the same time as he wants TAP to be saved; what he does not explain is how TAP is saved without public money. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u113	We've already told you what it was like!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u114	Mr President, I have no problem with this file clinging to my skin, I have always done my job with the pride of serving the Republic and serving my country when we made this decision. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And, Mr President, there is one thing I assure you: the honourable Member is still leaving this Parliament and I am still going to continue here. You can be sure of that! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Enough rice.]] the PCP, the Left and the Free Block, as to the genuine intention to save the TAP, to preserve the TAP and to recognize its national importance, I wanted to tell you the following: today, in aviation, the TAP operates in a strongly consolidated sector. We have virtually no examples of successful aviation companies—then in the European framework it is obvious—that have managed to survive in recent decades alone. This is the first reason because we believe that the best way to defend long-term TAP and ensure its viability is also to ensure that TAP can integrate a large aviation group that can take advantage of and develop the hub in Portugal and ensure that TAP is not 5 to 5 years or 10 to 10 years struggling for its survival, as it has been in the last 20 or 30 years. But there's something else I want to tell you. Members: things are as they are, they are as they are, or at least they are like most Portuguese people even if they are.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u115	That's different!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u116	The truth, ladies. Members of the Left Block, the PCP and the Free Block are that in the European legal framework where we operate and that we, the Socialist Party, accept, is not the same thing as being a public shareholder and a private shareholder. Mr. Paulo Moniz welcomed himself — badly, as Mrs. Mariana Mortágua said — but the truth is that we have legislation that does not treat equally a public shareholder and a private shareholder. As long as the private shareholder can inject what he wants into an unaccounted airline, the State cannot do so without presenting a restructuring plan that has measures impacting the company like those we have finally had to adopt in the TAP. The restructuring plan has not been developed to clean up the company and privatize it. We do not have a restructuring plan to privatize TAP, we have a restructuring plan because it was the only way of, at that time when we had all the planes on the ground and a company already having difficulties before the pandemic, to save. The restructuring plan irrespective of the European Commission had to always be implemented if we wanted to save TAP. The alternative to not implementing a restructuring plan and maintaining the same size as we had, as the PCP always wanted, was to put more than twice as much of what we injected into the TAP. We had to make a choice and make a decision also in respect of European legislation, i.e. to ensure that we were able to pass through that bad moment that TAP was living and to ensure that TAP will continue to exist in the medium and long term. This is the best service we do for TAP and that is why we do not have a dogma regarding the opening of the airline's capital. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u117	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now starting the second round of this debate. So, first of all, by the Socialist Party, Mr Hugo Costa has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what Mr. Minister of Infrastructure has just said is crucial to us. The restructuring plan was the form of having a TAP, in the medium and long term, was the way of not having a company that was liquidated. The major opposition party has marked this debate for today, but continues with the typical problem of not presenting solutions, seeking only titles and sharing of news on social networks, without ever talking or commenting on what would be the importance of a true strategic partner with knowledge of the sector. The greatest party in the opposition, in this matter as in others, is transformed into a mere party of protest. For the PSD, in 2015 privatization was urgent — so urgent that for four years it was not carried out, having been held only after two elections in which it would be certain that the PSD / CDS coalition would not continue in the government. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to tell the real story. They said that with this supposed perfect privatization, debts and liabilities would continue to be the responsibility of the State. This was the privatization that PSD and CDS carried out in 2015. If it is easy for liberals to say that they would close the TAP, which liquidated businesses, jobs and the importance it has for the economy, the greater party in the opposition does not present a single solution. But we need to analyze the economic cost of non-intervention. Of course, even forgetting the mistakes of private management started in 2015, there would always have to be a capital injection to defend the company. This was the case in France, this was the case in the Netherlands, and this was the case throughout Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u119	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u120	Firstly, we would have to examine the cost of employment and macroeconomic and the importance of value for national accounts. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, with EUR 3000 million of exports per year, what would be the impact on national purchases of more than 1000 companies and on 100 000 direct and indirect jobs?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u121	Where's that?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u122	Where's that? Oh, my God! But you want a drawing? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u123	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the defence of the TAP, the defence of the national economy, the defence of the Lisbon hub are crucial, and the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will continue, without any misunderstanding, to defend this strategic enterprise for the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u124	I ask for a little more silence in the Chamber and that the conversations you want or need to have be made with a minimum level of noise possible. To continue to speak by the Socialist Party, Mr. Pedro Coimbra has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, when the PSD called for this debate, it was thought that it would finally answer two important questions. First question: What would the PSD have done with TAP in 2020? It is that a protest party, as has already been said, can say nothing, but already a party that intends to be an alternative of government must be clear and tell the Portuguese what comes to it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u126	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u127	It is not worth saying that the company was private and that it was nationalized, because we all know that the private had no money. The question is simple : With the PSD, the TAP, in 2020, died or lived? PSD has never been able to answer that. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PSD privatized the TAP at night, in the dark and in the rush, and it never became clear what happened to an order of planes for the enlargement of the fleet that was under way at that time, and was already mentioned here by several parties and Members. The second important question that should be clarified: Why has this process been interrupted? Has a new fleet been acquired with better or worse conditions than those previously negotiated? Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opening of the company's capital has never been new. The TAP needs to be viable and to be integrated into an international-scale group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u128	Move so easily! You change and you change!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u129	There are reasons for this—we are operating in a competitive, consolidated and globalised sector, where combining synergies and resources is essential. And there is another reason that has already been mentioned here — a public shareholder can never increase the company's capital as a private shareholder, because there is European regulation that needs to be complied with. The Socialist Party is convinced that the path that has been followed to save TAP is the best way to serve the country. No other company, new or existing, would make the intercontinental connections that TAP makes. The public money that is injected into the TAP is returned to the country in taxes, in contributions, in jobs, in exports, having this company more than EUR 1, 3 billion per year incorporated into more than 1000 national companies. And very important: only TAP can maintain our hub in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u130	And yet they want to sell it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u131	To speak on behalf of the PSD, Mr António Proa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u132	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members, Mr Minister, first of all, when it comes to making difficult decisions, it is appropriate that the PSD takes no lessons from anyone, much less yours,... [[PSD applause.]] ... therefore, in 2011 we had to save the country by means of an agreement signed by the Socialist Party with the troika, which largely conditioned the difficult governance we did. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] Therefore, as far as difficult decisions are concerned, Mr Minister, we do not take lessons from the Socialist Party. I am afraid that because of the bad governance that Mr. Minister in particular and the Government in general have practiced, unfortunately the country must again have the PSD to make difficult decisions and to govern.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u133	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u134	Mr Minister, with regard to this debate, I am sensitive for two reasons to your difficulty here in defending the privatisation of TAP. On the one hand, because the Minister is recognized on the left side of the Socialist Party. He lived very well—in fact, he even negotiated—with management.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u135	Left side? Far-left!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u136	Therefore, you see him defending the privatization of TAP, against this management, it is certainly difficult, and that deserves my respect.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u137	Extremely difficult!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u138	You deserve it, yes sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u139	But, Minister, it is also difficult to position today because we all remember that, shortly ago, he took an oath on the nationalization of the TAP, saying that it was strategically so important that there was no other scenario than a nationalized TAP, comparing it almost to the importance that the caravans had in the discoveries. Therefore, it is surely difficult for you to come to defend the privatisation of TAP, which is the role you are doing here. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is a debate on the privatization of TAP, but it is above all about responsibility, transparency and seriousness. Or, if you want, about the lack of these. First, the truth: the memorandum signed by PS in 2011 required privatization. The privatization that took place and that you later challenged is precisely a condition subscribed to the agreement of the Socialist Party. Second, nationalization: it was by ideological will and by necessity to realize management. This was the motivation, it was no motivation of national interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u140	What about 2015?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u141	Then, ladies and gentlemen. Deputies: they criticized privatization, they swore that with PS it would always be national, of Portuguese, like such caravans, they presented a long-term restructuring plan, buried 3, 2 billion euros of Portuguese. And all this for what? For now, in a hurry, they privatize TAP. It was an achievement. They promised that with the PS, for strategic interest, TAP would be public but privatized. They promised a national company, but today it is no more than a regional company. They promised a great TAP, but unfortunately today TAP is a « TAPinho ».
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u142	You have no idea what you're saying!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u143	Today, mortgageting any strategy—if ever they had it—they hastily privatize, without transparency, and compromise the stability of the company, the national service that they so advocated, the support of the Lusophone community and the survival of a hub. I hope, frankly, that you are wrong, but I am afraid, unfortunately, that you are right and that the disaster is really total. The Socialist Government, in an open and closed eye, lying on the ground what they defended, lightly, without giving satisfaction, with damage to the country and to the Portuguese, gave the saying for the non-said. Mr. Minister, who swore to nationalization, privatized.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u144	Privatization? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u145	There is only one lack, Mr Minister and the Socialist Party, but there is only one lack, even without recognizing, a little shame, and, with some humility, they are able to apologize not to the Members but to the Portuguese who unfortunately suffer from your failure. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u146	Mr Filipe Melo has the floor to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I would like to remind you that who comes in and who comes out of this House are the Portuguese who decide and not you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u148	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u149	It's my conviction!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u150	And more: neither you nor your Ministry sends, how much more in the will of the Portuguese! [[Congrats from the CH.]] When Mr PSD, recently in his speech, referred to the luxury cars bought by TAP, « the 50 luxury cars bought by TAP » — and it is not 50, Mr, are 79, Mr Minister embraced and said : « Luxury cars? Oh, my God! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” I know that, for you, luxury cars are Maserati, but for the common Portuguese, a BMW is a luxury car! It's a luxury car, Minister! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u151	And the Mercedes where Ventura is with a driver? Who pays? They're the taxpayers!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u152	I must say that the TAP issue, more than a matter of relevance to the country, is a struggle for socialist power between Pedro Nuno Santos and António Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u153	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u154	The TAP and the airport are the internal socialist electoral dispute between Pedro Nuno Santos and António Costa, with clear advantage, unfortunately, to António Costa. [[Rice from PS and PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u155	Thank you!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u156	It's true, it's true! I would rather have Mr. Minister in this House say some barbarities, as I said in relation to the Arrival, than the lies of Mr. Prime Minister. But the PSD, which brought this issue to debate, and very well, is a useful debate, at least should have the decency of marking position and saying what it really wants for the TAP. [[PSD protests and CH counter-protests.]] Mr Minister, I remember that the main hole in the TAP, the TAP SGPS bubble that was created, and where TAP S.A. it is touched, it began with a disaster allowed by its government, with the disastrous purchase of VM Brazil, which resulted in a loss of EUR 1000 million. I repeat, EUR 1 billion!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u157	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u158	Of course this damaging and ruinous management of the TAP, with your convivence, involved dismissals, implied the reduction of almost 30 % of its employees. Almost 30%! For 2019, there are less than 30 % of employees and operations are also at the level of this year. How is it possible for TAP to be able to perform a service with quality and excellence, which is required, with less than 30% of employees compared to 2019? Mr Minister, these collaborators—who were so mistreated by the TAP Administration, accusing him of not having a dialogue—of the restructuring plan and the temporary emergency agreement, say that the Socialist Government and the Minister who has custody, or thought he had custody until the Prime Minister entered into the discussion, threatened them to sign this agreement, i.e., they were either signing or going to social security to stretch their hands because they lost their jobs. [[Congrats from the CH.]] There is a decor and they assume, once and for all, that this TAP Administration, chosen in any headhunting process, but that you have managed, is responsible for management — and I say without fear of words — ruinous TAP. They are now moving from facilities to the Parque das Nations, where the CTT (Correios de Portugal) did not want to be, because they could not pay the rents. But TAP, with taxpayers' money, is rich and can go to the National Park. in the same way, do not deceive us to say that they cancelled the BMW contracts. It's fake! The contracts will be maintained and, I tell you more, they only don't have the 79 BMW at the door because the brand has no availability for immediate delivery.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u159	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u160	And, in a media issue, the President of the Administration comes to say, "Let's take a year off and think about what we're going to do for a year". In other words, let's think that in a year, BMW has the carts ready for delivery and you will receive them by hand and say "this was the best solution, this was the only option we had to not lose money in this contract."
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u161	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u162	Mr Minister, what we have always said and done — it is false for you to accuse him of having a dubious position in this process — it was to defend the TAP. When you, four months ago, in budget office, sat in that chair, defended TAP, with nails and teeth, and said that TAP was not to sell, we agreed with you. We said it was a flag company, which was the only way we had to reach our communities and the four corners of the world, where there are Portuguese immigrants. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u163	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u164	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u165	I should've done it already!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u166	That's the only way we have to keep in touch with our diaspora. Selling TAP, company or consortium you will not want to know about the colors you have in planes, green and red that pride us so much. They won't want to know about it, they'll want to know about the profit and they won't want to know about the hub, because the hub, for them, is indispensable. Mr Minister, there is a decorum, assumes the position that we support and maintain the TAP until we are resuscitated from the investment. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u167	To speak on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr Bernardo Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I will ask again whether it is available for an audit of the nationalisation process.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u169	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u170	Is it available? I therefore hope that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will hear it when it says that it has nothing against an audit of the process of nationalization.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u171	I do not command the PS Parliamentary Group!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u172	Secondly, the Minister said that the courage to govern is the courage to make difficult decisions. The Minister made the decision easy to use the money of others, the money of the Portuguese, and, fortunately, there was a decision of the European Commission, because otherwise this value would not end.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u173	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u174	I'm a minister! You know what that is?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u175	A short time ago, I remembered a phrase that Mr Minister said, I think last year: "TAP is ours, for good and for evil. » It seemed like a marriage sentence—he forgot to say that obviously the Portuguese were paying the wedding, 3200 million euros—but the strange thing is that, two years ago, he was already asking for the divorce. He's become a privatization fanatic! Something has changed and what has changed is simple: reality. They already realized the conditions of the company—still yesterday, the CEO (executive chief officer) of the TAP said that historically, contrary to what the PCP says, the TAP, practically, has never made any profit, so obviously the conditions were difficult—they already realized that the debts are to be paid and that for the year, the TAP will have to pay debts and the state will no longer be able to inject more money and will therefore have to sell and even with some rush.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u176	TAP is a SGPS!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u177	As regards this, Mr Prime Minister has argued that the major public works must be approved by two thirds of Parliament. Now, in recent years, I haven't seen any public spending like TAP. It's almost an airport! And there was nothing here in Parliament, the restructuring plan did not come to Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u178	They didn't want to! All I want is enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u179	Mr. Minister may say he wanted to, but Mr. Prime Minister didn't want to or didn't leave. That's what it is! Question: Will the logic of Mr. Prime Minister apply to the process or not?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u180	I already said you didn't want to! All I want is enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u181	That's fake, I told you. Will the privatisation process be voted on here or not? And what's your model going to be? The Liberal Initiative is in favour of privatization, but not any privatization to be lost. It must be a transparent process, which complies with the law and which protects taxpayers. And the process that's happening is already making me worried.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u182	What's going on? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u183	There is a number of news to refer to 'the source of government' — and therefore there are already leaks — about conversations of potential stakeholders, which I think is violating the framework law on privatization. It can be read in one of them that « the privatisation process will always be preceded by at least two independent entities ». I would like to ask the Minister if there has been any evaluation. That I know there wasn't. But, having been there, who is doing it and with what order book?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u184	It's waiting!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u185	The law also provides for the establishment of a committee to monitor privatisations, which is supposed to provide technical support to the Government in this process. That I know, there's no commission yet. But tell me: if there is no committee, who is making these contacts on behalf of the government and what title? Because there is a law and it needs to be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u186	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u187	On the privatization model itself, I have five questions, but, as I already realized, in relation to most of them, you will say that you don't know or haven't decided anything yet.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u188	Come on, ask the questions! But it has to be fast!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u189	You'd better go point the questions, Minister. First: what percentage does the State intend to sell from its participation? Secondly, and I think it is quite important in view of the criticism made by the previous model: can you say that the State will not give guarantees to debts or loss support funds? Third: how does the law command, what is the percentage of capital reserved for workers and small subscribers? Fourth: when you're going to sell Groundforce, how do I think you're on the plane?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u190	Me? I don't sell!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u191	Okay. When do you think privatization will be done?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u192	It's not me, it's the government that decides!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u193	He's only a minister when he does. He only decides when he does!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u194	That's not it! Each one has its own function!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u195	In 2019, Mr. Minister was very critical of the bonuses and prizes given to TAP managers, so I ask: is there any contract bonus in force and the CEO will receive any bonus in the event of compliance with the restructuring plan? If so, tell me why you've changed your mind about bonuses. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u196	To speak on behalf of the CFP, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u197	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in his last speech, Mr Minister has shown why the European Union's political project is a project of submission to the interests of multinationals.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u198	Clearly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u199	What is regrettable is that the government also submits itself to this, which considers it inevitable and does not fight this situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u200	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u201	It doesn't have to be like that. It doesn't have to be. It may actually be different. It is also not true that civil aviation in Europe and in the world is in the hands of private people. The policy of liberalization and privatization has advanced much, it is true, and it has advanced much for political options in the European Union — it has fallen with the PS government itself, but the PSD, the Liberal Initiative, the Arrival and the CDS have always accepted this whole way. TAP is not, in fact, a single case. We have seen this film with other fundamental and strategic companies for our country, as is the case with Sorefame and Cimpor, and see well, Minister, what those strategic partners have meant and where are these companies at the moment and what this has caused to our country. This is very obvious in the railway, but also at the economic level, this clearly shows that these options correspond. Mr Minister, I would also like to say the following: the idea of disaster and disaster that was at the origin of the restructuring plan had no basis. We have warned of this and still now the Minister referred to this fact, saying that what was expected for 2025 will be achieved in 2022 and that there are already positive results in the first half. In addition, we warned about the need for non-destruction of jobs because they would be fundamental to the resumption of TAP activity. In fact, as is being verified at this time, when the activity of TAP and its operation is not going further because of the lack of workers, but also because of the consequences of the privatization of ANA, which prevent the development of an adequate response to the needs of TAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u202	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u203	And this is not, of course, dissociated from the fact that ANA has been privatized and all interests to prevent the construction of a new airport at the Alcochete Shooting Camp, which would allow the proper development of TAP. I would also like to refer to another aspect of the restructuring plan. These positive results, which Mr Minister has mentioned and with which he was pleased, show that there is no reason for workers to keep their wages cut or their wages not to be restored.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u204	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u205	Mr Minister, I would also like to mention one last question about the costs of TAP, because there are political forces, in particular the PSD and the Liberal Initiative, which consider that it would have been preferable to have let the company be destroyed, as if this had no costs for the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u206	Where's the question?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u207	Yesterday, here in the Assembly of the Republic, we warned that this was not true. It is not true because, in addition to what it means in terms of our sovereignty and not to leave the country dependent on the interests of multinationals and economic groups, the destruction of the TAP also meant more than 10 000 workers in unemployment,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u208	Where's Excel's sheet?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u209	What is the PCP proposal?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u210	... hundreds of millions of euros in social benefits, many others in compensation and the positive aspects that it would bring to the country simply ceased to exist. So what matters right now is to leave the political options that have been adopted so far by successive governments. In other words, the problem of TAP is that, for decades now, if it has been working not on a developmental perspective, but on privatization behind privatization, which has already shown that they are not a solution. Mr Minister, the solution goes through public management, but it goes through public management not like this which is being done right now, because it is not going to meet the interests of our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u211	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u212	This is important: a public management that meets the interests of the people and our country, which enables our development and the affirmation and defense of our sovereignty. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u213	To speak on behalf of the Left Block, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortagua.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u214	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister tells us that TAP is strategic. The PS believes that in order to defend the TAP, it must be public, but the European Union does not stop. So, to save TAP, the PS will privatize her. This is the summary of the argument Mr. Minister is bringing to us. And we ask: will the government privatize how much? Will you privatize 10 %, 20 %, 50 %, 60 %, 80 %? The Minister does not answer, as he does not answer other essential questions for the survival of the company.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u215	He only answers large parliamentary groups! You're little people!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u216	The wages were cut, despite the operation being increased and until there were operational profits. When are the wages of workers recovered? The lack of workers the company feels is jeopardizing the maintenance of aircraft, with technical capacity, local, established in the company. What will happen to the company's capacity with this plan of layoffs and pay cuts? The Minister does not say what is important and what he says is not right, because either TAP is strategic and has to be public in order to save the company or, then, is privatizing it that saves it. You can't just say both things at the same time and that's what you're trying to do. I still don't understand if the PSD option was to let the company fail. The PSD doesn't say it, it doesn't take it, but I understand why they defend privatization, and it doesn't have to do with public funds. I have never seen the PSD or the Liberal Initiative ask how many public funds have been stopped at Ryanair, which is a private company. TAP, which is a public flag company serving the communities, has not received a state toast over 25 years.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u217	You didn't get it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u218	The gentlemen. Members have never cared about public funding to private companies. The concern is with public funding to public enterprises. It's pure ideological prejudice!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u219	It would be a distortion of competition!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u220	It is pure ideological prejudice that challenges reason. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, see what happened to ANA. Did ANA hurt? No, no, no. Did ANA need a public money injection? No, no, no. Then why was it privatized? Did the investment increase? No, no, no. ANA did not comply with the investment plan. Did airport charges get cheaper? No, no, no. [[CH and IL protests.]] Counterprotests by the Minister of Infrastructure and Housing. Mr Minister, I am sorry, but I think that the debate should be focused on the speaker and not on the Minister, who is not in the possession of his word. Did the fees get cheaper? No, they didn't. ANA created a job? He didn't create a job. Did the airport service improve? No, no, no. Airports are shopping and not airports capable of having a good operation or even serving TAP and Country. And the profits, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? ANA profited between 2013 and 2021 more than EUR 1000 million, which did not stay in the country because they were all handed over to a foreign company. [[CH protests.]] And I'm asking, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, why has ANA been privatized? For what? What did the country profit from? Where did the country get stronger? In what way has this privatization been for the sake of the country? There is no argument in favour of this privatisation and what I ask the Government is whether it is willing to do the same with TAP. The government has to make a decision: either the TAP is strategic and it has to be public and protected or the Minister has to take once again that he has changed his mind and defended his privatisation. The middle of the bridge is that you can't stay, Minister. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u221	For an intervention on behalf of the NAP, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u222	Mr President, Minister, let me remind you of it. The position of the NAP has always been very clear, contrary to what it has just insinuated.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u223	It's not for me!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u224	It will certainly be recalled that the NAP has always defended that any capital injection would have to correspond to an increase in the effective control and management of the State in the TAP. For us, it is not a « TAPinho », that is to say, it is not a TAP that serves only as a strategic asset for the country, at the time of the state to put money, but that we do not control it, not ensuring that strategic routes are maintained or that environmental targets are controlled – that we always discuss and that we always ask the government to demand TAP. Moreover, even questions relating to animal welfare the NAP here brought about the TAP debate, as Mr Minister will well remember. What we cannot close our eyes is the mismanagement of the Board of Directors, and I am very surprised that the Minister and the Government are constantly closing their eyes to the mismanagement that exists. In 2020 and 2021, we came to see managers of 45 000 € — repeat, 45 000 €! Today, there is a cut, but the orders amount to 30 000 €, with housing support and mobility support.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u225	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u226	This is what we cannot understand, neither the PAN nor the Portuguese outside, Mr Minister. In fact, when it comes to tightening the seatbelt, it is always the same people who are asked to: the workers, who are fired at the choices the government has to make. What we want to know is what we can expect from this privatisation. Are we going to throw out, throw out the air, the money that has invested and the requirements of good management or are we going to have a concrete route, aligned with the railway, so that the country's strategic assets are not lost? Otherwise, what we will hear - we will say - in a few days now, Minister - is: "The rings have gone, the fingers have remained! Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u227	To speak on behalf of the Free House, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u228	Mr President, Minister, we have been holding an urgent debate on the privatisation of TAP for two hours and so far the following has not been clarified: what privatization? Is it total or partial privatization? It's to privatize now, is it to privatize later? Mr. Prime Minister, a short time ago in this Chamber, spoke of privatizing and establishing a date. I said I wanted to privatize within 12 months. Now, who privatizes quickly, doesn't privatize? Who sells an asset in a hurry doesn't lose money? The TAP Executive Director told us that the future of aviation was green hydrogen, and the government has a strategy for green hydrogen. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u229	Dear Mrs. Members of the far right, they may learn something.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u230	We're not extreme-right! Go study!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u231	'Will you beat the boot with the partridge' the strategy of the Government of Hydrogen and TAP? That is, if the country loses control of TAP, doesn't it miss an opportunity to be on the front line in technological innovation? Mr. President of the TAP Board of Directors said that he was dissatisfied with the degree of involvement of workers in the management of TAP. A public TAP—which is now—does it not have to accelerate the involvement of workers in the TAP Board of Directors? Oh, my God! I end up with a note. It is not because it is in any text of European law that, by chance, the state's lost investments have a regulation. It's a little hard to see me pedagogy about this, because if the states could put all the money they wanted in their airlines, I would win whoever had the more money. And Germany put everything she wanted in Lufthansa. [[CH protests.]] Mrs Mariana Mortágua, a caricature of Europhobia cannot lead us to justify what is basically the unbridled competition of state capitalism between Germany and Portugal, where Germany always won.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u232	Sure! He wins!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u233	Always! He blew up with the competition and monopolized the airspace later! Therefore, you may have opted for a nationalist drift from the left, but that does not prevent us from telling that we in the Free are Europeanists... [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u234	The honourable Member has to conclude, and the honourable Members. Members have to create conditions for you to conclude, and everyone has to listen to me. Sir, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u235	I shall conclude, Mr President, when you let me finish. As I was saying, the Free is a Europeanist and it is by regulated capitalism, the State and the private. by the way, there are those who are by private regulated capitalism, but accept an unbridled competition between states, in which Portugal would always lose. [[CH protests and L-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u236	You're going to unprotect the Portuguese to protect the Germans!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u237	The period between interventions is a separate zone. To speak on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister for Infrastructure and Housing has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u238	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue was about privatization and it was transversal to a number of you. at the moment, the main priority of the state and government is to ensure that the restructuring plan is successfully implemented. No privatisation process has begun. That is why we are not in a position to tell you anything about when, how and how, because there is currently no ongoing privatisation process. We have always said that, and that is why I said in the initial intervention that there is no zigzag, I gave you the dates — and I will do so again — when we presented the restructuring plan approved by the European Commission on 21 December last year. We are working so that TAP can be in a large aviation group, because it is the strongest way for its long-term viability. In 2020, when the plan was sent to Brussels, he also said that it is very difficult for an airline to survive alone in the global aviation world. We did not intervene in TAP to make it 100 % public. We never said that! That has never been our position, and that is why there is no zigzag today. We intervened with TAP so that it would not fail, so that it would not cease to exist. That was the goal! Either we were speaking to TAP or she was closing. [[P.S.'s applause.]] TAP is not a regional company, Mr António Proa. TAP is a company that ensures the connection of the Atlantic to Europe. It is the first European airline to connect Brazil to Europe. It is the first European airline to connect several African countries to Europe. It's not a regional airline, it's not a national airline, it's even an international airline. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD MP Protests António Proa.]] No, sir, it wasn't anymore. Even after the restructuring plan negotiated in Brussels — when many said that a « TAPinho » would definitely leave there — TAP today has more planes than it had in 2016. It's not smaller, TAP is developing. We've got Mrs. Members fixed in the administration and focused on examples of cars and headquarters. We've already started here discussing the issues...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u239	What does that matter? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u240	Mr. Deputy, it's interesting! It's interesting! But what is really important is whether or not the restructuring plan is being met, whether or not the goals are being achieved. And the goals are being achieved and the restructuring plan is being fulfilled!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u241	And the repayment of the investment?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u242	This is how you measure whether management is doing good or bad your work. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PSD used much of its interventions to say that process management has been a disaster. [[That's it!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u243	It is the position of the PSD, you have the right to take it and defend it. But once again, we are almost finishing this debate without the PSD explaining what would make it different so management would not be a disaster.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u244	I told you! Mr. Minister, you didn't hear!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u245	No, no! Today!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u246	Calm down, you'll know!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u247	If the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen want and ambitions for the Portuguese to trust you, the Portuguese have to know what the PSD would do differently so that what is happening is not a disaster! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Since the opening speech, Mr Paul Moniz has said, 'quietly, he will know! », but we are already going to the second round and we continue without knowing and without understanding what the PSD would have done! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, the PSD has one last opportunity today to show itself and to present itself as a power party that can say: "Here it is wrong, we would do so! Do not keep on seeking. ” That is the opportunity you still have in this debate. At the closure, Mr. Paulo Moniz, Mr. António Prôa, parliamentary leader Joaquim Sarmento, have the courage to say « we in 2020 had let the TAP fall »... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... or « we had not let the TAP fall, but had done so ». Thus, they present themselves as a party that is not a party of protest, but a party that ambitions to rule Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u248	And he'll rule soon!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u249	To correct your nonsense!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u250	It helped the Portuguese understand how you want to solve our nonsense, and you can't explain what they would do differently to solve our nonsense! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Filipe Melo — and this is no longer the first time — brought an important issue about the history of TAP. The purchase of VEM ( Varig Maintenance and Engineering), M & E Brazil and what it meant over 10 years on TAP. You may remember who did, who is responsible, but, in the midst of these criticisms all that makes the administration, you have not been able to say so far that if there was someone who finally put an end to that cancer, this administration and this government have been able to put an end to it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u251	It was Brussels!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u252	No, it wasn't! No, it wasn't! No, Mr, it wasn't Brussels! It was in the restructuring plan that we initially presented Brussels. It was a proposal from the Portuguese Government and from this administration. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u253	Brussels has forced itself to comply!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u254	Do you understand, Your Honor? [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was not bad for him, since he identified this serious problem that weighed a lot in the accounts of TAP for more than 10 years, saying that it was this government and this administration that solved it, that put him to an end!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u255	It was Brussels!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u256	It wasn't the PSD, it wasn't the CDS, it was us and it was this administration!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u257	It was the European Union! It was Brussels that gave instructions to be so!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u258	It continues to repeat what the PSD says—"when is the money returned? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” And the arrive, unlike the PSD, should perceive and have an obligation to realize, by the positions it takes on the TAP, that the TAP returns to the Portuguese every day. Ask the workers of the TAP, who they meet with, if they do not feel that the TAP returns every day. He had already returned, only he continued to return, Mr. André Ventura, because we intervened with TAP. If we hadn't spoken to TAP, it wouldn't give Portugal anything! Today we were able to transport passengers from Brazil, Africa, the United States, distribute them in Europe, leave more than EUR 3000 million in Portugal, because the state intervened the airline. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u259	What do you want to sell for? Oh, my God! Explain! If it's so good, why do you want to sell? What's good for us! It's not sold!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u260	I would like to answer the IL's questions. Once in an intervention, I believe that Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo or Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto put 10 questions and I answered the 10th. But now there is no ongoing privatisation process. We didn't start it. It is an already stated objective, assumed and defended since 2020. That's nothing new. But he did not start and I cannot answer the first three questions, Mr Bernardo Blanco, because there is no answer at this time for them. We will have time and it will always be a process accompanied by everyone. About Groundforce, he's in a insolvency process right now. Insolvency managers will be selling the part of the previous private. TAP does not have a time limit for its sale at this time. There is this compromise, but we have no time limit. In TAP, as in any company, IL knows that objectives are defined and that there are obviously bonuses in administration if these objectives are achieved. It's nothing new for the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u261	There's damage to it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u262	The main objective and mandate of this administration is to comply with the restructuring plan. The failure to comply with the restructuring plan is obviously not a bonus. That's how you run a company, whether private or public. And that is an important issue for me to now move on to the left of parliament. The first question was asked to me: "Why do they not resist the rules of the European Union? We work in the European framework, with our partners and how often we disagree and defend our position. Portugal always defends its position in the European framework — always! — either Mr Prime Minister or his ministers. That is our work, constant and permanent. We do not question whether we remain in the European Union, on the contrary, and that means that while we are in the European Union, and the Socialist Party wants to continue, we comply with the rules we share with all the countries in the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u263	Mr Minister, only one technical matter. We will now start the closing period of the debate and my suggestion is that the Minister will continue to answer, using his closing time, which is five minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u264	May I finish, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u265	Yes, but Mr. Minister will speak right away. Therefore, if you want to continue to use the word, time is cut off for the closing period, unless you are another member of the government to make the closing intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u266	No, no, it's me. I don't want to abuse, but I think I still have some time tolerance, just like the parties had. [[CH's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u267	All right, Minister. Please, because it's no less than the others. [[CH's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u268	Even he gets it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u269	Until? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u270	Mr President, allow me, then, to leave only one fundamental note. TAP workers have done extraordinary work so that TAP continues to operate, with great sacrifice. All Portuguese have contributed to save TAP and its workers, and unfortunately they make a greater contribution, because they are suffering heavy cuts in their wages. TAP is recovering, it's true, faster than expected,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u271	Will you go there? Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u272	... but it still hurts. When we increase labour costs in a harmful company, we are increasing the damage. We are making a recovery path of the company and we will only be able to put an end to the cuts when we have a healthy company, able to restore the situation of its workers. The administration remains open to work with the workers. This work continues and will continue to be done and many results have been achieved. What we cannot anticipate is the end of the emergency agreements signed by all trade unions while we have a company to harm, and that is the main reason for us to do so now. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, there are no directors to win 45 000 € on TAP. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u273	We shall now begin the period for the end of the debate. The Minister for Infrastructure and Housing has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u274	Mr. President, I am very sorry to you. That was not so long ago I stopped being Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, but in fact I was not aware of what Mr President was saying to me. I am very sorry, but I have already focused on the answers and, as the closing intervention was already ready, I will do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u275	The Rules of Procedure are new!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u276	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: Portugal, by its geography, we all know, has a peripheral position in the European context. This situation makes it difficult to develop the country's economic and social development. at the same time, Portugal has a privileged position in the Atlantic context which, as part of its history, has always sought to value as an entry and exit port of Europe. But this privileged position, for many opportunities it gives us, is not enough. The geographical centrality is translated into strategic centrality only if it is constructed by policies that allow the country to explore all the potential its geography gives it, in particular if the country is able to establish and deepen links with the outside. For centuries, this connectivity was exclusively maritime. Today, it is also air, essential for the ability to approach destinations, transport people, dynamize the economy and contribute to the country's wealth. For air connectivity to fuel our strategic centrality, it depends on two development instruments. Firstly, it depends on an efficient hub, that rotating platform that distributes throughout Europe passengers from the American and African continents. Secondly, it depends on an airline that is able to capture this transatlantic traffic. TAP is the only company that can exploit all the economic potential that this platform represents. TAP and hub coexist in deep interdependence. A strong TAP feeds the hub and an efficient hub adds value to the TAP. Together, and in synergy, they guarantee connectivity to the country, materialize its strategic centrality and value exports, wealth and employment. That is why we need an efficient, competitive and sustainable TAP. And that's what the right never understood. The importance of an airline is not simply measured by the volume of flights it carries and the number of passengers it carries; it is measured by the profile of connectivity and destinations that enables it to connect and measure itself by its concrete business model and by the type of relationship it maintains with the hub, which, in turn, determines the value that the company adds to the national economy. That is why, when you wonder whether TAP will return all the money that was invested by the State, the real answer is: TAP has already started to return that money since its failure was avoided back there in 2020. [[P.S.'s applause.]] He began to return money to the country by the passengers he transported, by the exports he guaranteed, by the economy he irrigated, and began to return money to the state by the taxes charged to this economic activity. This is the fundamental idea that political myopia does not allow some parties to see: that the return that TAP gives is indirect, diffuse, capillary, but not less real; that TAP, before serving its shareholder, serves companies, serves people, serves the country. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, sometimes the defence of our strategic centrality requires difficult decisions by whom to govern. Because governing is just that: facing complex problems, having to decide, even when it was easier not to do anything, and taking the decision with courage and conviction. That is what we did when in 2020 we avoided the failure of TAP. Losing the company would make the country lose strategic centrality and deliver it to Spain. It would be to choose to be peripheral. Don't count on us for that. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u277	Even during the closing period of the debate, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u278	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Social Democratic Party has scheduled this debate to halt the wave of information, half-truths and enormous inconsistencies with which the government has conducted the TAP process. All this is shocking and has to be denounced without half words. Even the Socialist Party's position in this debate shows that it is wrong and does not learn. Nor does he learn with his own mistakes! When do they ask « what did the PSD do? and "what does the PSD do? » I respond: when the PSD ruled did what was necessary, difficult and courageous. We did! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] The so-called « flag company », TAP, is of little interest to the Portuguese, they believe. Little interest in Portuguese. TAP has already been the « girl of our eyes», it has already been the « presence of Portugal in the world », it has already been the national pride for the quality of service, security and connection to our immigrant communities. That's it! But in recent years, TAP has been constantly a source of bad news. The beautiful TAP passed through the black hole, where money and socialist ideology are buried, and it's in the news every day for bad reasons. And it is impossible not to attribute added blame to the government — always the same government — which made the TAP a toy of affirmation or misfortune of Minister Pedro Nuno Santos, with incomprehensible advances and retreats and the welcome of — always the same — Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u279	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u280	Do not speak to me in « flag company ». The flag? Oh, my God! In Porto and in the North it is not even a topic of conversation, because we are focused on looking for alternative partners and increasing the airport. The air bridge between Porto and Faro is no longer made by TAP,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u281	So it's made by who?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u282	...and our emigrants find better price and service in competition. He stopped being proud to travel in the TAP, and the blame is not for the workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u283	And why is it no longer a cause for pride?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u284	If the title of the TAP is of little interest to the Portuguese, there are two issues that certainly concern the Portuguese: the workers of the TAP and the immense fortune buried by the last governments in the socialist experience in the company. The PSD does not accept that workers are used as cannon meat in this matter,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u285	That's what you guys are doing!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u286	... they that all agreed to save the company and that yesterday and today, in this House, more than nationalization or privatization, demand management, good management of the money that is ours and theirs. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u287	What's your position? Do they sell or not sell?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u288	As we know, weak leaders fail the strong nations and the TAP is proof of this truth. It must also concern the Portuguese and be a cause of indignation and repudiation the huge bag of money buried—yes, buried—in the TAP. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, EUR 3200 million is really a lot of money! It is three times the money that has been stolen from the future of pensioners in this country! If we think that our IRS — blood, sweat and tears — each year amounts to about EUR 16 billion, they will realize that the government has allocated a fifth of this value to the TAP, and this has to outrage us in a failed project! And the regabof will only stop because the European Union has already warned that the government cannot inject any more money into the TAP for 10 years. What now? As I said yesterday, when the money of others ends, socialism ends. And the same government that had 1000 certainties to nationalize the TAP changes principles, changes certainties and, after all, bets everything on the private. After all, we're back in privatization. In order not to call privatization what you want to do, call private « strategic partners ». We know zero about this, but it's to do in 12 months. This is to play with those who work and play with our money! [[PSD Members' laughs.]] This process cannot be forgotten or excused. Who answers? Who's responsible? Who's sorry? Nobody! And the PS keeps that self-satisfied air he learned from our Prime Minister. In the meantime, the Portuguese lost 3200 million euros and there is no one to guarantee that they will be recovered. The absolute majority turned into a curse for the Socialist Party. Apologies, management and opposition ended. We'll only do what the PS and only the PS wants and the PS proposes, and if so, we're all... miserable! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u289	What about the PSD? Do you sell or not sell? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u290	We have thus closed the first item on the agenda, so we can turn to the second item: the general assessment of the Bill No 24 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Mental Health Act and amends related legislation, together with, in general, the Bills Nos 335 / XV / 1. a (L) — Creates a mental health plan in educational centers and prison establishments, 339 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Creates the mental health check, in order to ensure timely access to psychiatry consultations and psychological consultations and 346 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Law of means for mental health and draft resolution No 177 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government put the National Mental Health Plan into action. To present the bill, Mr. Minister of Health, Manuel Pizarro, addressed in his first speech in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u291	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The issues related to mental health take great centrality in our country, because of its high incidence and the great impact they have on people and society. The priority given to them by the Government and the use of the Recovery and Resilience Plan ( PRR ) is therefore justified to accelerate the qualification of the country's response capacity in this area. This is a sensitive subject. What is at stake concerns health, but goes far beyond a view of health isolated from the social problems of human beings. One of the main determinants of the high incidence of mental health problems in Portugal is still related to the persistence of inequalities and poverty. Therefore, the priority given by the Government to a policy for improving income, reducing inequalities, promoting access to education, health, housing and social protection and combating poverty are virtuous elements to promote better mental health, and it is understood that this should be seen as much more than the mere absence of disturbance. in this context, the health system and the National Health Service (NSS ) play a central and essential role. The Mental Health Act which has been in force since the end of the 1990s has been a major step forward for the conceptualization of the model of organization of services and the provision of mental health care, as well as for the definition and consolidation of a progressive vision of human rights and citizenship in the context of the so-called "compulsive hospitalization". With the current law, it was possible to initiate a fruitful course of combatting stigma, promoting the dignity of the person with mental illness, deinstitutionalizing services and patients, bringing mental health to the community. However, during the 20 years of the law, important developments of a scientific, legal and human rights nature have occurred in Portugal and at international level, which impose an update on legal standards. It is not clear that several European countries are currently in the process of reviewing their mental health laws, often going to meet the one who has been the way in Portugal. Our country has been on the front line at the end of the last century and the proposal that the Government bring to the Assembly of the Republic goes in this direction, to keep the country in line with the best practices to defend the human rights of people suffering from mental illness, using the best scientific knowledge available. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The proposed law presented by the Government results from the work of a group of experts, who was, in fact, appointed by my predecessor, Marta Temido, today Deputy, who here greets, and who was led by Prof. Maria João Antunes, of the University of Coimbra. I want to transmit to the coordinator of this group and to all the personalities who joined him, particularly Prof. José Miguel Caldas de Almeida, Dr. Joaquina Castelão, Dr. António Leuschner, Dr. Diana Andrade, Dr. Teresa Sousa Carneiro, Dr. Fernando Vieira, Prof. Paula Távora Vítor and Prof. Miguel Xavier the most vivid thanks for the quality and depth of the work done. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The review of the Mental Health Act is based on a legal and conceptual framework that included very important contributions that should form a strengthened humanist approach to mental health. I highlight the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities adopted in New York in March 2007 and approved by this Assembly of the Republic in 2009. by ratifying this Convention, the country has undertaken to transpose into national law the provisions on human rights. The new legislation on the figure of follow-up was evaluated, in particular with the new wording given to it in the Civil Code and the Code of Civil Procedure, as a result of the law passed in this House, in 2018. This proposal also incorporates the recommendations of the Comprehensive Action Plan on Mental Health, approved by the World Health Organization, in 2013, the Strategic Action Lines for Mental Health and Welfare adopted by the European Union, in 2016, and takes into account the latest recommendations of the Bioethics Committee of the Council of Europe. The bill emphasizes our humanist vision as an indispensable component in health care of excellence, giving centrality to the concepts of autonomy, dignity, participation, opportunity and recovery, placing human rights as one of the structuring pillars of mental health. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This proposal takes into account the data of scientific knowledge that has been accumulated — the high prevalence of mental health problems, its strong social impact, the dependence of well-known social determinants, the greater effectiveness of comprehensive and decentralized care organization models — aiming at continuity and proximity to populations, with reduced stigma. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this set of assumptions results from the options we have made for the articulation of the law. Respecting the provisions of the Basic Health Act, the proposed new Mental Health Act has on the definition, the foundations and objectives of the mental health policy, giving particular attention to the provision of care, universal access to mental health care, the effective ownership of fundamental rights, the fight against stigma, the effective participation of people in need of mental and family health care in the definition of mental health policies and plans, the guarantee of equity in the distribution of resources and the use of services, knowledge based on scientific evidence and the coordination and cooperation of services and bodies with direct or indirect intervention in the area of mental health. This proposal is innovative in the terminology used, and that is not a minor issue. The words tell and we understand that they must count in the right direction, reaffirming the progressive values associated with this proposal. Thus, expressions such as "psychic anomaly" or "compulsive hospitalization" are abandoned and the categorization of "person with mental illness" is refused, first opting to refer to "person with need for mental health care". People's rights and duties have been reviewed and updated, in line with the new Health Bases Act, with legislation related to the anticipated will directives and the legislation that creates the legal regime of the major accompanying. It is expected that the person in need of mental health care will be supported or represented in the exercise of his rights, according to the cases, by the companion, by the health care attorney, by the representative with a view to monitoring and by those who exercise parental responsibilities, guardianship or to whom he has been entrusted. Rules are laid down on the management of the heritage of the majors who are not covered by follow-up measure provided for in the Civil Code, overcoming a persistent gap in the regulation of the management of the heritage of persons in need of mental health care. Special attention is, of course, given to the essential issue of involuntary treatment, previously referred to as "compulsive", in a thorough manner, paying attention to the deprivation of rights associated with it, seeking an innovative approach. In this field, I note the definition of the assumptions and principles of involuntary treatment, distinguishing situations of danger to legal property of the individual or third parties, the admissibility of two modalities of involuntary treatment—in outpatient or inpatient—and the preference for involuntary treatment in outpatient, plus an instrument to combat stigma and isolation of people in need of mental health care. In the same register, clinical-psychiatric evaluation leading to an involuntary treatment decision may be carried out, and may even take place at the home of the applicant if it is deemed useful. The judicial decision of involuntary treatment, in all its phases, will always have to be adequately substantiated and all persons in need of mental health care will have the right to respect their will and preferences, either in the form of pre-emptive directives of will or through the appointment of health care attorney or representative with a view to monitoring. Restrictions on will and preferences arising from involuntary treatment will only be strictly necessary and appropriate to the effectiveness of treatment and to the safety and normal functioning of the involuntary unit, and the right to participate is recognised to the person undergoing involuntary treatment—of course, to the extent their capacity! — the preparation and implementation of the respective care plan and to be actively involved in decisions on the development of the therapeutic process. The use of coercive measures, including isolation and use of means of physical or chemical containment, is surrounded by special care. I would also point out that it is proposed to put an end to the regime which in practice allows the permanent admission of impedables by proposing the repeal of Article 92 ( 3 ). that of the Criminal Code, which enables the successive extension of security and internalisation measures. Portugal abolished life imprisonment in 1884, still in the 19th century, and was one of the pioneer countries in this area. We understand that it is essential to recognize that all people should be treated equally, with monitoring and review of the measures that are necessary, in respect of human dignity, and that this is, of course, a matter which can be deepened and strengthened in a transparent and informed public debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the review of the Mental Health Act is part of the process of mental health reform that is under way and that the Government, using as a accelerator the resources of the PRR ( Resolution and Resilience Plan ), intends to conclude until 2026. We are doing so by implementing a large investment plan that provides for EUR 88 million exclusively devoted to the completion of this reform. This investment is aimed at the qualification and strengthening of different levels of response. On the one hand, in hospital care, four new hospitalization units will be constructed in general hospitals and we will definitely eliminate the hospitalization of acute patients in psychiatric hospitals. at the same time, in continued care, up to 1500 new places dedicated to mental health will be created. Investment will also aim at better integration between the different levels of care, through the creation of 15 integrated responsibility centres and the re-qualification of the facilities of 20 institutions of local mental health services. Finally, 40 new community teams and more residential responses will be created in the community, taking safe and secure steps to deinstitutionalize care. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a proposal for a health law, but it is at the same time much more than that. The protection of mental health and of people in need of mental health care, especially those suffering from the most serious forms of disease, is at the heart of our concerns. Having health is to have access and this is one of our priorities, without subalterning the needs of mental health to those of other diseases. In the context of mental health reform, we are providing the SNS with more and better conditions for this response, which we want progressively faster and more humanized, knowing that this is an intersectoral path. To that end, we need a much greater involvement of the community. Mental illness cannot be treated as a separate subject, surrounded by taboos, silences, somewhere between forgetfulness and measles—we have already spent too much time separating the brain from the rest of the body in health. You have to break the stigma at once. The need for mental health care must be met at all levels of health care, and the most complex cases are for specialized units. The answers should be where the patients are and it is up to us to enhance the opportunities at various levels of care. This is a debate on human rights, on the intransigent defense of the human dignity of all people, with particular attention to the most vulnerable. in this field, the Portugal of democracy has been at the height of its responsibilities and it is at this summit that this new Mental Health Law will maintain us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u292	The Bureau records six requests for clarification and is informed that the Minister will respond in two blocks of three requests. To request clarification, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u293	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on the content of the bill, I will speak more deeply in my speech, but I would like to take this moment, as long as I have available, to ask Mr Minister a question. Mental health is a challenge, in particular, as it is obvious, in promoting its protection and improvement, but also in combating discrimination and stigma associated with the various diseases that are treated, diagnosed and evaluated. We know that these were already the challenges prior to the pandemic, but it has brought added challenges: it is estimated that depressive disorders — from anxiety, depression, burnout — have increased by about 25% after the pandemic period. We know that this affects specific age scales, particularly young adults, but also professional sectors, such as home workers and health workers, which, in relation to burnout, have very high diagnostic rates. From this point of view, over the last year — that is, in the period when a response would be most necessary in terms of mental health care — we saw a huge increase in waiting times for mental health consultations and care, particularly in the psychiatry of childhood and adolescence. For this reason, the law that brings the discussion fits into a reality that is negative in relation to the period resulting from the pandemic. The law provides for investments, resources and professionals. Mr. Minister tells us that he is going to seek money from the PRR for part of investments and resources, but we know from the State budget for 2023 that the salary in the Public Administration, as far as the health sector is concerned, will fall from the increase in inflation and even from the average increase expected by the Government for the Public Administration. So, Minister, the question I want to ask you is very direct: where are you going to look for professionals to ensure that this will not be one of those laws that never come out of paper? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u294	Mr Rui Cristina has the floor to make a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u295	Mr. President, Mr. As and Mr. Members, Minister of Health, Portugal is the second country in Europe with a higher prevalence of psychiatric diseases, with psychiatric disorders also occupying the second place in the global burden of diseases in our country. More than one in five Portuguese suffer from psychiatric disorder. About 700 000 Portuguese people live with depressive symptoms and, in this context, about 70% of people diagnosed with mental illness have no access to adequate health care. Minister, these are some of the great numbers of mental health in Portugal. This is the portrait of the Real Country, quite different from the country of fiction in which the Government of the Socialist Party seems to live. A good example of this lack of means—which was still reported in the press this week—is related to the lack of transport cars for professionals who support people with mental illness at home. Indeed, the 10 community teams to support people with mental illness, created under the PRR, have been waiting for the promised cars for over a year to be able to work.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u296	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u297	I therefore ask you, Minister: when will the said means of transport be delivered to these teams? Worse, in the National Health Service, only three hospitals have hospitalization and urgency of pedopsychiatry, and there are only 136 mental health doctors for children and adolescents. Throughout the Algarve there is only one pediatrician working at the SNS at the Faro Hospital. I ask you, Minister: are these resources sufficient? Do you have any proposals to increase the ability to admit SNS and the number of medical mental health specialists? Finally, Minister, I have three questions for you. in this context of a serious lack of response from the SNS, does it consider that there is a good link between public hospitals and those of the private and social sector? What will be done to improve community services that care in the area of mental health? And finally, what is the reason not to be a priority yet to improve the access of people with mental illness to adequate health care? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u298	Mr Pedro dos Santos Frazão has the floor to request clarification on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u299	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate Mr Minister, because he seems to be ready to come to Parliament, but he did not respond to our demands. The arrival had already given two demands, which were plunged by the socialist majority, to call the Minister to Parliament, but it seems that he is already ready to come here so long after he has taken possession. Congratulations and welcome, Minister! He came to Parliament, not to answer about the chaos he inherited in the National Health Service, in the national health system, so to speak, but to present a law that was not written by him. Let me tell you, Minister, that it seems that this law is made in an Instagram color filter, called "PS", which sees the country as a pink scenario, a country of wonders, but which does not correspond to the desires of the Portuguese. And it doesn't correspond because we know that the access time for psychiatry consultations in Portugal is, on average, four months, and I can give you the example of what happens in Santarém because I went to the SNS website itself to get the data on the average waiting times. In Santarém, the District Hospital of Santarém has a waiting time of 131 days for urgent cases; the Queen's Hospital Santa Isabel, in Torres Novas, has no psychiatry; the Hospital Dr. Manoel Constâncio, in Abrantes, has no psychiatry; and in the Tomar hospital, for priority psychiatry and pedopsychiatry, 215 days are recorded. The speaker displayed graphs relating to the data you mentioned. But it's not just there, Minister. At the Coimbra Hospital and University Centre, one of the main university centres in the country, in addition to waiting time being quite high, in the next two years — latest news, Minister — 40% of psychiatrists are going to retire. The speaker posted a printed news. In Lisbon, at the Hospital de Santa Maria, we also have six-month waiting times for consultations, for example, of diseases of food behavior, bulimia and anorexia. All the measures that Mr Minister has spoken of in the rostrum are not the result of this law itself, but of the investment of the PRR, which we have some reservations that it is actually being implemented. Also in the State budget, which announces a great deal of EUR 13 billion for health, only 5% are granted for mental health. Mr Minister, how are we actually going to get mental health to the Portuguese? What concrete measures, immediate, that will reduce waiting times by people who are suffering for their mental health and want to quickly access health care, is the question I leave you with. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u300	In response to this first group of requests for clarification, the Minister for Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u301	Mr. President, Mr. As and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to answer in an aggregate way, even if I give one note or another to the questions that have been asked, because I think there is something in which I might not have made myself explain in the initial intervention. It is that the theme of mental health is much broader than the theme of specialized mental health treatments for the most serious patients. I am sorry that they concentrated only on this aspect, in fact, because this was even the aspect in which they sat the stigma in relation to the problem of mental health. It is to take in the most serious cases and treat it as if it were a separate case. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I must also tell you, Mr Pedro Frazão, Mr Rui Cristina, that I do not share the conviction that you are convinced. Members seem to have that doctors in general, other professionals, are unable to deal with mental health problems. The overwhelming majority of patients, fortunately, are treated in health centers, are well-accompanied and are improving their health situation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[No, no! That's a lie!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u302	Yes, yes! We need more specialized professionals and more specialized teams, it is an absolute truth, and for that we are training more professionals. But I can also give you news: in the last six years — responding to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares' concern about the increase in the incidence of mental health problems in younger people — our teaching system has recruited about 1,000 psychologists, who are currently working in schools, and there are 50 more psychologists in health centers, regardless of the outcome of the competition for admission of 40 professionals, whose final list of candidates is per day, leaving. We need to strengthen resources in the same way. Yes, we have a lack of equipment and that is why, in the context of the PRR, a competition is open for the acquisition of more than 700 motor vehicles for primary health care — an investment of around 23 million euros — which will be distributed as soon as possible. But I understood everything, Mr. Rui Cristina. The honourable Member spent half of his intervention on defending the SNS and then asked how much money I will give to private hospitals to defend the SNS. It's really a change of perspective! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u303	In order to make a request for clarification, Mrs Joana Cordeiro of the Liberal Initiative has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u304	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mr as and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by congratulating the Government that it has finally brought to the agenda a matter so relevant and so decisive to millions of people, such as mental health. However, this is a new Mental Health Act, it is regrettable that we find that the proposal is poor, too focused on involuntary treatments and hospitalizations and coercive measures, restrictions on rights and freedoms, not presenting a densification on what must be an integrated and positive approach to mental health. Until we agree with the Minister when he said that we cannot maintain a certain stigma about mental health, but where is this thought reflected in this proposal? Moreover, with this proposal, no one knows what the definition of mental health policy is, nor does public disclosure provide so little. How can the common citizen easily and in an accessible language access this mental health policy? And how does literature for mental health be promoted without being taxed by the Mental Health Act itself? Then it seems serious to us that we do not make a single reference to mental health policy in a school and educational context, speaking specifically for children and young people. In article 7, we can read that people in need of mental health care have the right to access comprehensive quality health care appropriate to their family and social environment. For this reason, I wonder if the school and work environments were forgotten. It is not to be remembered that mental health is transversal to all areas of our lives, that school and work environments have a very important weight and that, often, these are exactly the environments that enhance or expound mental illness. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u305	In the same article, it is said that people in need of mental health care have « the right to freely choose the health care provider », so I cannot fail to ask you whether this « freely choose » includes in the Government's view the private and social sectors. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u306	Private? If you pay...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u307	Because, if you include, we even applaud. If not included, we regret the restrictive and centralizing concept of the government on what it is to choose freely. A true mental, comprehensive and inclusive health policy should include all relevant entities, irrespective of the sector to which they belong, public, private or social, because any discrimination is unacceptable and may call into question the full effectiveness of a true strategy to combat mental illness. Yes, sir. Members of the Left Block, we have noticed that in your initiative they want to exclude the private and social sectors. They cannot put the interest of patients above your centralizing ideology. Well, you know we don't compact with that. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u308	They know what that is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u309	I cannot end by not stressing the fact that the Government has failed to follow this bill of law from any reference to prior consultations or hearings which have neither, nor, so little, to opinions that may have been requested. It is a misunderstanding from the Government to this Parliament that a bill with this relevance is not accompanied by anything but fundamental, but it is just another example of how this absolute majority behaves. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u310	To make a request for clarification, Mr João Dias of the CFP now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u311	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister, I want to tell you that, with regard to the integrated response to mental health, we will now go there, because the debate is only at the outset. Allow me first to address this bill which is under discussion. In fact, the CFP recognises — it is notorious! — the Government's efforts to guarantee the fundamental rights of the person with mental illness. It's notorious and it's a merit. We believe that this effort is relevant, but we must not fail to make two or three exceptions, which mattered that in this bill they were soon seized. One of them is the balance that we believe must be made and has to do with the fact that if we want to have a proposal and such a guarantee of these rights, which in itself may constitute a difficulty, because we go too far, and then, in practice, we cannot succeed. That is to say, because of this concern, so demanding that it is, it risks not working. It is a concern that we should have, because we want it to be a pragmatic solution, naturally guaranteeing rights, but also applicable and compatible with what is clinical exercise. Then there is also a question that is very sensitive and very worrying. This law relates to advance decisions of will and it is necessary to understand the limits of what can, or not, be defined as involuntary. In fact, the law defines voluntary treatment, but does not define or caution what involuntary treatment is, and in this sense, Minister, there has to be a difference between voluntary treatment and involuntary treatment. Of course, we must consider that what is involuntary must be subtracted from what is the early directive of will, because, if it are involuntary situations, we can hardly consider that they may be contained in an early decision of will. in this sense, since the bill does not save, we find, Minister, that it would be advised that there was a request for opinions on this diploma to the Superior Council of the Magistracy, the Superior Council of the Public Ministry and the Order of Lawyers. I would be advised, so that these situations could be considered and saved. [[PCP applause.]] [[At this moment, he took the presidency of Vice-President Adam Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u312	I would like to congratulate the Members and the Members. Members, the Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, the Minister for Health and the Secretary of State for the Promotion of Health. You have the floor immediately, to make a request for clarification, the Member of the PSD Parliamentary Group Sara Madruga da Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u313	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, the ratio of the new mental health law is based on the treatment in the outpatient clinic of mental patients and in boarding as the last resort. The PSD agrees with the principle, as a way to humanize, to dignify the patient and respect his rights. We also agree that coercive measures are limited to the essential and that it is not possible to keep prisoners with mental illness hospitalized beyond strict compliance with the penalties as well as with other aspects of this proposal. However, Mr Minister, the PSD will, of course, never accept other intentions less noble than safeguarding the rights of patients. The PSD will not accept, Mr Minister, that the rules can be used as a subterfuge to solve the problems and constraints arising from the government's inaction and de-investment in health care and the prison system. Nor will he accept that the Ministry of Health resigns itself from those who are its responsibilities and transfers them to others, particularly to the family members of the patients or to the Ministry of Justice. That is why it is crucial that the Government and the Minister explain to us how they intend to implement and operate these new rules. Mr Minister, what assurances will the patients and the community have that there will be adequate medical treatment and follow-up at home and due to patient supervision? And what conditions will family members have in order to fulfill this function? How will the government also improve and increase the treatment capacity of psychiatric patients who commit crimes or who constitute a social danger, avoiding the overload of the prison system? Minister, how will the government increase the ability to hospitalize psychiatric patients in prison hospitals? This, when it is known to all the screaming lack of beds for hospitalization in psychiatry in forensic units, of which is an example the Caxias Prison Hospital. As far as young people are concerned, Mr President, he does not understand what the intended answers are and when the creation of an autonomous therapeutic unit for the acute problems of these young people is a very worrying reality in our country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u314	To respond to these three requests for clarification, Mr. Minister of Health, Manuel Pizarro.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u315	Mr President, I will try to clarify, but in fact, in some areas, we do not speak exactly the same language. While I'm talking about fighting stigma, approaching community treatments, approaching people who need mental health care from families and the place where they live, you talk about isolation, prisons... I find it hard to understand that we are in a debate about health and human rights. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] This view of psychiatry as a kind of concentrational service is a vision of the past, it is an outdated vision. [[Protests by PSD MP Sara Madruga from Costa.]] in this matter, we are very comfortable. All progress made in the country, in recent decades, was at a time when it was the Socialist Party that was in government. The law in force was passed in the time of the Socialist Government. The creation of the continuous mental health care network, the deinstitutionalization of patients and the closure of some of the old concentration psychiatric hospitals—such as that of Lorvão, Coimbra, the hospital in Amarante or Miguel Bombarda, in Lisbon—all this was done with the governments of the Socialist Party. In fact, there is someone who has an intention of progress and it seems that this progress is not perceived, because they are always looking to see "how will I transform this disease into a stigma, put a label on the patient, put him away from the family, take him away from the community, put him away from the nearby medicine? This is not our vision! The most complex cases require more specialized treatment, but this more specialized treatment has to be reserved only for these cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u316	Stigma is waiting for five months!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u317	Having said this, Mrs Joana Cordeiro, I have liked some of the proposals she has made to us, but I must say that, in this matter, there is a vast space to work in the specialty, and that was the challenge that we also presented to the House when we presented this proposal. We will certainly be very willing to provide the technical support that is being requested in this area and, in the matter of consultations, it seems clear to me that. The honourable Member asks for this, and I think you are right to ask for it, but at the same time, Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa asks what I am doing to enforce the law. But, seriously, it was serious that I was implementing a law which Parliament has not yet passed, but we will finally see how we are going to evolve in this area.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u318	How will you regulate the law? He doesn't answer, he doesn't know.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u319	Mr João Dias, I follow you on the idea that it is very important that we make supplementary consultations and a public debate, which I find very interesting, not only for one body or another, which must certainly be involved, but also for the Portuguese society as a whole, given the relevance of this issue. But I must tell you that I do not think your example of will-precipitated directives is a good example. There are many people who need mental health care at a certain stage of their lives, but who do not always need them, because they have stages in which the completeness of their ability to decide is preserved. It is in this context, knowing well their disease and being adequately informed, that many of these people can be involved in a process of greater commitment and participation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u320	Can you refuse a priori isolation?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u321	It depends on the rules of the law. [[PSD and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u322	Mr. Minister, just a moment. I'm asking the ladies. Members who give the Minister an opportunity to clarify. It is, of course, important for the whole Parliament. Mr Minister, you would like to continue with the respect this Parliament has for you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u323	Thank you very much, Mr President. I find that the prison and concentration theme is very enthusiastic about a part of this House, but what really motivates us is the theme of mental health care and a humanist vision and respect for human rights in this context. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u324	This part of the debate is thus concluded, which had to do with requests for clarification from the Minister. Let us turn to the speeches of the parliamentary groups or Members who have taken initiatives. To submit Bill No. 335 / XV / 1. a (L) — Create a mental health plan in educational centres and prison establishments, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor today — not 1 minute! - 2 minutes. Your time has grown in an extraordinary way! You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u325	Mr President, I hope to make good use of this eternity that is granted to me. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is true that the issue of mental health cannot be restricted only to the concentrational context, but it is also true that deprivation of liberty cannot be an obstacle to the right to mental health, on the contrary. It is essential that, in restrictive contexts, there is adequate intervention in prevention, but also in the treatment of mental illness, for the benefit of those who are temporarily in prison context, for the good of society out there, for the good of the community there. Therefore, health policies, including mental health, educational centres or prisons should be integrated into national health policies, since health care provided under these conditions should look at people as users rather than as persons deprived of their liberty. We therefore propose the creation of a specialized and autonomous plan, which takes into account the need to integrate health professionals into the educational and prison protective systems; the formation of technical teams already affected by educational centres and prisons; the possible adequacy of infrastructures and the creation of specialized health units; and the articulation of this whole system with existing community or hospital services. This plan should be seen as an integral part of a genuine mental health reform in Portugal, which is guided by improved access to specialized services and which in fact enables the treatment and prevention of mental illness. at the same time, we are discussing the Government's bill, which, in global terms, from our point of view, presents an improvement of the Mental Health Act. However, there is no reference to measures to prevent mental illness and the proposed law is omitted in relation to the contribution and relevance of psychology in mental health. in this sense, we will present amendments to this bill within the scope of the speciality.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u326	Thank you very much, Mr President, and above all, I would like to thank you for your time. To submit Bill No. 339 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Creates the mental health check, with the aim of ensuring timely access to psychiatry consultations and psychology consultations, has the floor Mr. Pedro Frazão.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u327	Ex. Mr. President, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: World Day of Mental Health, this Monday, October 10, we marked and commemorated. According to the World Health Organization, mental health is much more than the absence of mental illness. It is a state of well-being in which the person is able to use his/her skills, to rebalance from the stress of his/her daily life, to be productive and to contribute to the well-being of his/her community. But, year after year, with the degradation of national responses, with the stress brought by the prisons and with the impoverishment of the country, mental health in Portugal only gets worse. I therefore want to pay my sincere tribute to all the victims and their families, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival. They are people who suffer in the hands of the systemic neglect of mental health policies, as a result of the wrong decisions of the last Governments of Portugal and also of this government, which is present. We don't forget and we'll always fight for these victims. Unfortunately, many of the victims are no longer here. Thousands found the only answer for their deep psychic pain in suicide. It is true that in Portugal three people are killed per day, but there is still a huge lack of courage to talk about suicide. Silence is total, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, we all have responsibilities in this silence. Bad political decisions and ideological prejudice cause those who cannot pay a psychologist or a private psychiatrist to be neglected. Let us look at just a few data: one in five Portuguese does not have mental health; Portugal is 2. the European country with a higher prevalence of psychiatric disorders; there are 24 000 psychologists in Portugal, but only 1% are in primary care, i.e. only 250 psychologists; in psychiatry services, the average waiting time for priority patients is four months; there is a huge insufficiency of beds for hospitalizations in psychiatry. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: They are data that embarrass us all, like Portuguese, as a nation and as a people.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u328	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u329	On the day when there were no means to take care of mental health of more than 2 million and 500 thousand Portuguese patients, on the same day, October 10, World Day of Mental Health, the socialists, the bloggers, the Liberals and the NAP asked Parliament services to distribute the joint text of a new law of death, a law that ensures quality psychiatric and psychological monitoring, in good time, to those who ask for euthanasia or assisted suicide. in an act of total hypocrisy, the Jacobean State, which is unable to ensure a consultation of psychiatry and psychological follow-up to a patient who has an incurable disease and a great suffering, but who wants to live, is the same state that will provide a psychiatrist or a psychologist at the same time that the same patient asks to be killed in the SNS. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: I think this will be a great maneuver to make a bypass to the waiting lists in psychiatry. This delusional reality could only be the product of mind's hallucinated in a Marxist political class, but bourgeois at the same time. Please stop hurting the dignity of human life.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u330	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u331	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have an assembly that is concerned about the healthy development of children and young people, but the government that supports is the same as spending millions on schools in doctrine in gender ideology, which, according to some experts, is responsible for the current pandemic of exponential increase in children with gender bias; it is the government that denies the recruitment of the appropriate number of psychologists for schools to accompany these and other children; it is the government that fails with the pedagogical support for children with special educational needs; it is the government that has the support of the parties involved in legalizing the consumption of mild drugs, even knowing that these mild drugs increase the risk of developing mental illness and psychotic outbreaks. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : We have no doubt that, in good time, access to psychiatry and psychology consultations is resolved with our proposal to create a mental health check in cases where the SNS does not respond, as is already the case, for example, for millions of children and pregnant women, with the dentist.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u332	Well remembered, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u333	If the PS praises the dentist's program, only ideological blindness or contempt by Portuguese can cause them to reject our proposal for a mental health check. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese who are in line for a consultation of psychiatry or psychology are looking at you—they are looking at you, Minister of Health! — and only hope that they will not give up their unbearable suffering. Arrival is the party that leaves no one behind. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u334	To submit Bill No. 346 / XV / 1. a (BE) — Media for Mental Health Act, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u335	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is no worse way to devalue the impacts of mental health and insult their victims than, for example, the previous intervention, which for such an important debate brings the debate of euthanasia. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] It is incomprehensible, but it is the populism of the extreme right and it is the insult to a considerable part of our population.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u336	That's why we are 12 and you are five!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u337	But Mr Minister, it is not acceptable either—and it must have been now that, when they have indicated it to the office, they have catalogued it as 'a political minister' — that when asked 'alhos' responds with 'bugs'. And, above all, with a tactic that is more extreme-right than the Socialist Party, which is the tactic of insult, saying that whoever asked him questions began by stigmatizing mental health and the victims of the mental health pandemic.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u338	Have you seen the last polls? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u339	It is incomprehensible, because none of the questions had that content and, indeed, Mr Minister used only this rhetorical, argumentative escape to answer the most essential question, which is this: what are the means, what are the professionals to put this law on the ground? [[CH protests.]] But let's see Mr. Minister's answer. Mr. Minister says they're stigmatizing... [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u340	Mr President, I am sorry, but I must appeal to the House to respect the speaker who is speaking.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u341	It is the same respect he has for us, which is none!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u342	That's true! [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u343	You would like to continue, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u344	The Minister has come to say that we are stigmatizing mental health, for example, with the way in which the law looks at cases of hospitalization, as he does, and only by addressing this reality here. But that wasn't the question that was on the table. It is because when the Minister says that "with this law we are going to spend health care on primary mental health care", the question remains exactly the same. [[CH protests.]] Will the same family doctors who are missing for everything else not be lacking for mental health? This question is indisputable! I am talking about resources, people who are able to face up, consult and not just numbers and statistics, because otherwise we know who will not respond, along with the government : to our population. On this point, the Minister did not respond. I insist on this point: the State budget says that in the Ministry of Health expenditure with staff will increase by about 2, 5 %,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u345	What is the project? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u346	... where the government says that in its forecasts the inflation rate will be 7, 4 %, proposing a rise in public administration income of 5, 4 % and an average rise of 3, 6 %. Therefore, the wage mass in the National Health Service will grow below the average, which the Government proposes, of wage valuation. The Minister could say here: "Well, this is because health wages are higher than in other sectors of the state and, therefore, in the rule that we have done, they are less benefited. In practice, I would say that I would recognize the loss of purchasing power, but it did not even respond. I believe that this is the question of debate: Mr Minister, is it true that you will have less money to pay to professionals, that you will guarantee the impoverishment of them, leaving even less attractive careers in the SNS that are no longer attractive, and, as such, leave a law again — which apparently is even a good law — in the drawer? [[Protests by the Minister of Health.]] That is the question, that is the fundamental question in this context. But I'm going to the content of the law. The Minister proposes a law that reverses the current mental health law and, in our opinion, it seems a good proposal — I say it without ambiguities — because it reinforces some of the rights of people with mental illness, states that the outpatient clinic should be the priority, that only last resort should be made to involuntary hospitalization and that even involuntary admissions the rights of patients are strengthened. That, for us, is positive. Most of the law even deals with a case in which involuntary hospitalization is decreed in court. On these aspects, what I conclude is what I said recently: it seems to us that the proposal is generally positive.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u347	You don't know what you're talking about!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u348	When we look back, for the way societies, health systems and psychiatry have already treated people with mental illness—disposing of rights, voice, participation—we know that looking to the future is exactly guaranteeing the opposite of what has already been done, i.e. guaranteeing rights, listening to people and safeguarding their participation. As far as the bill is concerned, we will be available to help improve it in the field of expertise, but we have a fundamental debate on this subject, which is the media debate. The government made a multi-annual agreement a few weeks ago. He has presented a multi-year investment plan in the Ministry of Defence and he is pleased to want, now, to plan for several years. So I think it makes sense for the Socialist Party and the Government to look carefully at the proposal that the Left Block brings to this debate, which is to guarantee a multi-annual plan of investments in mental health. The Socialist Party will say that this must be "considered, must be seen, must be framed", and our response is that, yes, it must be seen, it must be framed, but we must guarantee the instruments — whether in investments, whether in resources or in people — with a temporality that allows them to bear fruit on the ground, and not with the casuism that we have seen so many times in the past. This would be called 'CL' - good public management, there is will for the government and for the Socialist Party to accept. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u349	Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares, Mr. Ex.a, was very present because he left 19 seconds to respond to the two requests for clarification that the Bureau, in particular the Members of Parliament Cláudia Bento, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, and Joana Lima, of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. Therefore, in order to make a request for clarification, Mrs Cláudia Bento has the floor immediately.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u350	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate you. Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares, I welcome the legislative initiative of the Left Block, which proposes a law of beginning for mental health on the agenda of the day and draws our attention to the problems associated with it, which we know are serious, serious and with a sharp incidence of worsening in Portuguese society in all age groups. Nor should the effects of the pandemic on the mental health of Portuguese people be overlooked, which occur in a country that has one of the highest prevalence of psychiatric disease in Europe, in which it is admitted that up to one quarter of this population suffers from this problem. The foreseeable increase in needs puts the National Health Service in the face of this new challenge, to which, so far, the National Health Service cannot respond in an appropriate and timely manner. This is a serious problem, because in its genesis is the lack of strategy, the lack of investment, the lack of resources and, above all, the lack of realisation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u351	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u352	In recent years, despite all the problems identified and known, there has been only government propaganda and no investment. This fact is recognized in your bill, when it says, and I quote, that "many of these aspects derive from the lack of political commitment in the area of mental health." It is true, but it is also true that the honourable Member was part of the management...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u353	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u354	... and, as such, is responsible for the current response of the National Health Service on mental health. You have had more than enough time to apply the measures suggested in your bill. Finally, I ask you, honourable Member, if you think that the National Health Service has been able in these seven years to give an early response to patients with mental illness. Do you think that this answer is appropriate today? If your response is negative, what measures do you consider should be implemented immediately to give these patients a timely and adequate response? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u355	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs. Joana Lima.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u356	Mr President, Minister — whom I welcome and whom I welcome to this House of Democracy — Mrs Minister, Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Members, this bill and the projects presented have called us all to discuss the new Mental Health Act. It is therefore a discussion that brings us together, in which we can all make our contributions and everything has already been very well explained. As far as mental health is concerned, the proposal presented by the Left Block is mainly about strengthening the budget and strengthening human resources. On behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, I cannot but follow your proposal and thank you for your initiative for this debate. But, Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares, your proposals — which are welcome — are already practically reversed, either in the State budget proposal for 2023, or in the PRR and the National Mental Health Plan. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I can also give a review of everything we are doing, particularly in the hiring of more psychologists, either for the National Health Service, which has already been hired about 50, or for schools, and a procedure for hiring about 1000 psychologists is under way, which reflects the government's commitment to promoting mental health. So I think we have good news and we are going to meet our claims, to meet Portuguese claims. Within the framework of the reforms provided for in the RPP, where the mental health area specifically refers to, we have an investment of EUR 88 million channelled to human and material resources. This investment aims to support the realization of mental health reform, thus contributing to the strengthening of the SNS and, in particular, to the improvement of the response to the mental health needs of the Portuguese population. The aim of this investment is to create residential responses in the community; to build four units of admission in general hospitals; to create 15 integrated centers of responsibility; to requalify existing facilities, intervening in 20 units; to create 40 community teams with the ratios defined in the National Mental Health Plan; and to extend the National Network of Continued and Integrated Mental Health Care, with the progressive increase of the number of places until 1500. We have more to present here, but my time is running out. I shall finish by telling you the following: we have a convergence with your bill, but your proposal is all in the Government's bill. I tell you this without irony, thank you for your contributions, thank you for telling us, from that bench, that it is available to contribute to the Government's bill — that is very important for us — we are together in the fight against disease and in the defence of mental health, and welcome to the debate! We will also be here to help improve, if necessary, although we look very closely at the Government's bill and stand by that proposal. We have a different view of the right view and we are certainly supporting this proposal for the law of our Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u357	To reply, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u358	Mr President, Mrs Cláudia Bento, the answer to the main question which you have already put to your colleague, and I will give it as often as necessary. The last time the Left Block voted in favour of an annual budget of the Socialist Party Government was in November 2018. And why? First of all, because of health issues, because we felt that the answers that were being given, also regarding mental health — six years ago that the plan was planned and never implemented — did not go to the ground. That's what separated us.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u359	Time's up!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u360	So I have all the legitimacy to say that it was because we differed in the way public health was being conducted in Portugal, in the National Health Service, that the government went away from what was a more left view, that we had. With regard to the question that Mrs Deputies put, on how to respond immediately—only talking specifically about psychologists, but we could go to other professionals—there are about 25,000 psychologists in Portugal. Of these, only about 1000 are in the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u361	I would like to draw your attention to time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u362	I have a sentence left to finish the answer, Mr President. Therefore, there is the courage to pay better, to create better careers and they will have no difficulty going to the public service. In response to Mrs Joana Lima, on the content of the law, it does not alter what she said, we generally agree, but on investment is that there is failure. The government transfers the investment to the PRR and says that, as for the rest, it is soon seen in the State budget. However, this State budget fails to invest in the necessary professional and, in careers, we see nothing. Mr. Minister says he'll meet, but we don't see anything. But by now, I will return the question to you and we will see the answer tomorrow. It says the Socialist Party that it is generally in accordance with our proposal and has a desire for dialogue. We will see whether we agree with this or whether this is the dialogue that Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes was talking about, that is, we dialogue, but in the end, the PS votes and leads everything. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u363	To present draft resolution No 177 / XV / 1. a, has the floor to Mrs Inês Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u364	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government present: The impacts of the pandemic and recent conflicts in Europe, associated with the loss of employment, the worsening of working conditions, the isolation of young people during the pandemic or the increase in the cost of living, have had a very significant impact on the mental health of the Portuguese population. Mental disturbances are, among chronic diseases, the first cause of disability in Portugal, a reality that has not been properly accompanied, due to the lack of human resources and the inability to view this problem as a serious matter, and not as the poor relative of health, and which, in the view of the NAP, should be given priority and cannot, continuously, be postponed. In addition to strengthening means, we consider it essential to engage in prevention, either in a school context, including at the level of higher education, as young people asked at the time of the pandemic, either in the context of wear and exposure to violence, as is the case with police officers; or even in the area of health, human or non-human, such as veterinary medicine; or in complex social phenomena, such as accumulation, including the accumulation of animals, which calls into question welfare and public health, causing suffering to pets. It is true that we have already advanced over the years, particularly with the Mental Health Act, through the forecast of the extension of the National Network of Continued Care to people with mental illness, but the measures are still manifestly insufficient and with very significant geographical asymmetries. We have recently heard Mr Minister say that we should not bet on institutionalization. We can no longer agree, but for this to happen, there must be close mental health and there must be geographically adequate responses. If not, what will the Minister tell a mother who has been waiting for more than half a year for a consultation of psychology, who sees a daughter being hospitalized at miles and kilometers of home and who has to change her whole life in order to be able to accompany the minor and, of course, to be able to have a quality mental health service? Oh, my God! That is why we must have proximity services and we must have human resources that seriously address this problem, which must be given priority. The NAP, today, presents an initiative to recommend to the Government that promote the necessary efforts for the effective and urgent implementation of the National Mental Health Plan, with the strengthening of the recruitment and establishment of professionals for the prevention and treatment of psychological forum diseases in health centres and for the most effective intervention in childhood and adolescence. Here we will also be for the work in the specialty, hoping that the government and the PS will pass on to the approval of the dialogue.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u365	Let us now turn to the speeches of the parliamentary groups which do not have legislative initiatives on this subject. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, Mr Luís Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u366	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Members: « All human beings are born free and equal, in dignity and rights» — that is what is read in Article 1. the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. World mental health policies have also evolved, in order to reduce the restriction and suspension of the freedoms of people with mental health needs, promoting equality in access to such care, ensuring the dignity of the person and extending its range of rights. Freedom, equality and dignity of rights — that is also what this proposal for a government law on mental health is about. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is a proposal accompanying the evolution of this perspective and compatible Portuguese legislation with European and world conventions and regulations. Otherwise, let's see. It is a proposal that promotes freedom, because the bill is further removed from the models of suspension of the freedom of persons with mental health needs by changing the concept of 'compulsive hospitalization' for 'involuntary hospitalization', however ensuring a balance between the will and preferences of people and the protection of the legal goods of their own or third parties. It is also a proposal that promotes dignity. It promotes dignity, reaffirming the objective of deinstitutionalization and reintegration into the community of institutionalized people, ensuring their continuity of care, respecting the will of patients, promoting their capacity and autonomy and not subjecting them to treatments and admissions with perpetual, unlimited or indefinite duration. But it is also a proposal that promotes equality. Of course, because it fights the stigma associated with people with mental health needs, reaffirming the certainty that mental illness is not an isolated disease and, above all, it is not a disease of people who have to isolate themselves, on the contrary, it is a disease of civilization and that must be treated in the community. It is a proposal that enshrines and extends rights. It is a proposal that clarifys and extends rights, which stands out, from the very outset, the participation of respect for the will and preference, whether or not, of the patient or the person of his confidence in all procedural acts, but also in the implementation of his care plan. It allows clinical gains, as it becomes possible, at every moment, the involuntary treatment, despite hospitalization, that is, the restriction of the right to freedom of the person in need of mental health care is no longer a condition for involuntary treatment. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members: The circumstances of various parties have presented initiatives and concerns means, almost unanimously, that there is a need to continue investing in Portuguese mental health. But isn't that really what politics is for? Oh, my God! Isn't this what this house is for? Oh, my God! So I leave a challenge: that at the end of the day, we adopt instruments that enable health professionals, in the area of mental health, to provide better care; tools that allow patients to receive better care, that allow families and their caregivers to ensure better rest and that enable society to ensure a balance between the interests that they must preserve. For these reasons too, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we reject a view of compartmentalized mental health based on the acquisition of avulge services, which distance people who need care, their families and their caregivers from cross-versal and multidisciplinary responses. We are faced with diseases, unfortunately, more and more common and whose prevalence grows when poverty grows, when inequalities grow, when work grows unworthy, stress and burnout. It is also for this reason that mental health policies must be transversal and community-based, disease prevention and health promotion. This is what we are defending and is what we are doing, first, by fulfilling the National Mental Health Plan, according to the concern now expressed by the NAP, then by implementing the programme of requalification of the system of social reintegration and educational protection, according to the concern of the initiative of the Free, but also by mentioning more means that respond to the concerns now stated by the Left Block. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, the great media law is the means we put on the Recovery and Resilience Plan. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members: I have in my childhood memory an image that the 1998 law of the authorship of a Government of the Socialist Party helped to erase and that the bill we are discussing today will permanently erase: a house, a window and a young man. A young man imprisoned because that was the answer to his illness. A semi-hidden young man, because the mental illness was a stigma. I spent every day, and every day, he was there, in the window. But it is by this memory that we can proudly affirm that we have made progress, but it is also by utopia that we need to continue to move forward, with balance. Maybe that's the name that best spells out this bill. Today, we are further removed from the frightening policies of intervention, based on the restriction of freedoms, with a proposal that deepens freedom as a constitutionally guaranteed right, which promotes equality in access to mental health care, respect for the dignity of the human person, of people who need care, but also of families, their caregivers, their desires and preferences and their rights. We will therefore continue for the specialty process with the intention not only to listen to the parties but to listen to them. Listen, yes, it's listening with your heart. Listen to all those who want to contribute to improve this proposal, but above all listen to the representatives and associations of users, family members and caregivers. Mr President, freedom, equality, dignity and rights, this is what we are dealing with in this bill. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u367	Mr President, the Bureau records Mr Guilherme Almeida, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, for a request for clarification, so I give him the floor immediately. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u368	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members, Mr Luís Soares, mental health should be one of the priorities of health, the crucial importance it has in people's quality of life and the social and economic development of nations themselves. As scientific studies show in Western societies, psychiatric disorders and mental health problems are among the main causes of public disability and death. The diseases of the mental forum have been exacerbated during the recent pandemic, which is even more dramatic with the economic and social crisis in which we are now immersed. The truth is, unfortunately, the National Health Service continues to fail in response to mental health patients. In recent years, episodes related to mental illness have increased to worrying levels. The average waiting times for consultation have worsened, and it may take up to six months, and 60% of Portuguese have no access to mental health care. Psychiatric emergencies, associated with suicide attempts, situations of sexual violence and traumatic death of relatives or friends, increased 156 per cent. And the consumption of tranquilizers, tranquilizers and other psychotropic drugs increased by 9 to 4 %. We have excellent modern and progressive plans and laws, but plans do not come out of paper and legislation has little correspondence to the reality of people and the country itself. An example of this is the National Mental Health Plan, approved for decades and a half, but which, still today, remains largely to be implemented. We are also grateful that this proposal for government law, in practice, has little benefit from the accessibility of patients to mental health care and little support to their caregivers. More than words and promises, mental health needs acts. For all this, the question I address to the Socialist Party is the following: how will the chaotic situation in which mental health is found in Portugal be resolved? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u369	To reply, Mr Luís Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u370	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate you, thank you for the question and tell you that in the recitals, on the importance of mental health, I believe that we are all in agreement. And even it would be intellectually dishonest not to admit that the system does not yet respond to all the needs of citizens. In fact, that's why we're here approving a law. This is the first step: we recognize that the legislative instruments we are discussing and approving are crucial to the work we want to continue to do. I gave an example of the rostrum, which is a personal example, but I think it can be common to either of you. Members of this Chamber. To say that, from 1998 to today, we have not made any progress, too, intellectually dishonest. We did, we made many advances! And that is why we proudly say that these advances took place, above all, when the Socialist Party was in government. In response to the concrete question which leaves me, on which measures we have, I say that they are well placed in the Budget which we have approved just over six months ago, those which we are discussing today, at the national level, which has been supported in a technical position, and there is a set of measures that are already on the ground, that we all have knowledge and that I am now sorry to reproduce. But there is an appeal I leave to the honourable Member : do an act of contribution and tell this House what the PSD did for the defence of mental health when it was in government. Just go back to 2013 to realize that much of the policies that were planned were suspended, and we well know who were responsible. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u371	Continuing with the interventions, you now have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u372	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On October 10, World Day of Mental Health was marked, but we do not need a specific day to remind ourselves that having mental health is not the same thing as not having a mental illness and therefore are important every day to remember the importance of all of us taking care of our mental health. For more than 20 years we have been talking about a mental health reform that will define a mitigation strategy and, above all, prevention strategy, but this reform has never seen the light of the day, because it has never been considered a priority by successive governments. After taking on particular importance in the context of a pandemic that has brought serious consequences to the lives of all of us, it has taken political importance for this government, which has presented a bill in this Parliament, thus initiating a debate which has long been called into question. This proposal expresses a particular concern about the definition of rights and — no doubt! — the duties of persons with mental health needs, saying to protect their freedom and autonomy and saying, at least, that they should aim, to respond to the needs of protection and treatment in the area of mental health in Portugal. Today, we all realize the importance of addressing this issue with seriousness, frontality and no stigma. Our mental health is not constant, varies and is affected by what happens in our lives. About one in five adults has a mental illness at some point in their life. A person with mental illness may be a family member, a friend, a workmate, simply a acquaintance or someone we see every day on television. Exactly, mental illness is real, as real as any physical disease and can affect any one of us. The stigma and discrimination around mental illness prevent many people from asking for help, because they feel ashamed or afraid, which only makes these health problems worse and hinders or prevents treatment and recovery. Only one quarter of people with mental disorders receive treatment and only 10 % of them receive treatment that is considered appropriate. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know about you, but as for me, this data shocks me. And the irony is that, in most cases, with adequate care, mental diseases and psychological disorders have treatment and recovery. And it shocks me even more when the data on the impact of mental health on young people are analyzed: according to a study by the Higher School of Nursing of Coimbra, conducted in the school year of 2021 / 2022, in schools throughout the country, including in the Autonomous Region of Madeira, it was concluded that depression increased in adolescents and already affects 42 % of young people. among young respondents, 28, 5% had symptoms of severe or moderate depression and girls presented worse indicators in the area of mental health. If we remember that access to mental health care in the National Health Service is far from meeting the needs and that most families do not have the economic capacity to bear these costs of their own purse, it is easy to conclude what was least desired: people do not even seek specialized help, and do not seek, because they cannot. This is once again the state failing at all levels! Having said this, this proposal does not value or promote the autonomy of the person in need of specialized care, being exhaustive in predicting criteria for involuntary treatment, to the detriment of the importance that should be given by facilitating access to any citizen to voluntary treatment and, in the first line, mental health care of proximity, within the framework of primary health care. On the other hand, this law is poor in definitions and failure in defining an essential concept, the concept of « mental illness». Failure, because it defines it in a highly stigmatizing way, making no distinction between a serious mental illness and a minor mental disease. It also fails to admit the same restrictions on rights, freedoms and guarantees for all cases, without taking into account the specificities of the different pathologies. This contributes to a negative view that already exists on this issue and that it is urgent to reverse. We are concerned about various aspects of this proposal, which are not guaranteed rights, freedom and guarantees. In the field of specialty, the Liberal Initiative will take a proactive stance on improving this proposal, contributing to ensuring, effectively, quality mental health care and greater protection of the freedom and autonomy of the person being treated. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is still a long way to go. Little by little, mental health is no longer a taboo, especially with my generation. It is up to this House and each one of us, in particular, not to let this theme fall again into forgetfulness. Because of our responsibility, the Liberal Initiative and I in particular will not let that happen. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u373	For an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Helga Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u374	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing today the bill approving the mental health law and amending the related legislation, together with four projects dealing with the same matter, a matter of greater relevance that should be seen and treated as a political priority of the government for the well-being of people and their caregivers. The figures place Portugal as the second country at European Union level on the prevalence of these diseases and the fifth in antidepressant consumption ( pre-COVID data ). Ladies and gentlemen. Members, one in five Portuguese suffer from psychiatric disorders. We do not question the goodness and relevance of the proposal put forward by the Government, however, we must bear in mind that in the post-pandamy period the policies and support of the Government are not in line with the worsening incidence of psychiatric disorders and the increased consumption of antidepressants. Mr Minister, we have verified in the proposal a symbolic exchange of expressions: that of 'compulsive admission' to 'involuntary'. With this exchange, the Government intends to humanize mental health policies, but for the PSD, humanize mental health policies is equipped with human and financial means capable of eliminating constraints and degradation of the National Health Service, such as the lack of doctors. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: In August there were 649 psychiatrists and 136 pediatricians, a manifestly insufficient number, which is reflected directly in the waiting times for consultations of psychiatry in childhood and adolescence, in patients not identified as priorities—and I refer to data from the SNS portal of yesterday—Hospital Infante Dom Pedro, in Aveiro, 221 days; Hospital José Joaquim Fernandes, in Beja, 206 days, i.e. more than 7 months waiting. Adult consultation: Hospital Doctor José Maria Grande, Portalegre, 200 days; Hospital Infante Dom Pedro, 164 days. Other factors of concern are added: the small size of the continuous care network integrated into mental health, whose capacity should be increased; the geographical asymmetries already identified, which should be corrected. The reorganization of mental health services may not call into question the capacity installed at the level of hospitalization. This is because it is expected to reduce to half, with the closure of the 221 beds of acute hospitalization units in psychiatric hospitals, to be replaced by general hospitals. This reduction, Minister, indicates a lack of respect for people and for informal caregivers who need rest. Mr Minister, the establishment of Community support teams for people with mental illness is a more valuable, when they have the means and spaces to work and perform the necessary therapies. As already mentioned, what is happening in the Algarve is serious. In conclusion, this year's motto for World Mental Health Day is to make mental health and well-being a global priority. The PSD is available to make its contribution in a matter that should be a priority for all of us. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u375	Mr João Dias, by the Parliamentary Group of the CFP, now speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u376	Mr President, Minister : With all sincerity, I would like to tell you that the CFP has been concerned to leave the legal issues here and to caution, both in the field of rights and even the heritage, the implications that this bill may have. But we are concerned that the Minister treats the CFP alerts as attacks, which reveals that he is probably not even committed to dialogue, which is important. And the CFP is available for the constructive dialogue around this proposal, in the sense of improving what is being discussed here.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u377	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u378	In addition to the bill, other proposals are also under discussion, so it is important to say that the CFP has a clear position on mental health. And in fact, Mr Minister began by talking about what is the integrated view of mental health. Of course, Mr Minister, I would like to tell you that, in the context of mental health, in addition to all perspectives — and you have either forgotten or have not spoken, probably because you did not have an opportunity to prevent and rehabilitate, but since you talk a lot about treatment, I will already go to these two — there are many other areas that need to be careful, including education, maternal and child health, quality of life,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u379	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u380	... access to conditions such as housing and even many issues related to habits. All this is decisive in the mental health of the population. Mr Minister, when we talk about prevention, we have to think about where mental illness prevents itself. And you know, of course, that you prevent yourself from investing in childhood and adolescence.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u381	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u382	And where? Essentially, in the community, primary health care. So I want to talk to you about three or four aspects, and we could talk about many others, because, in fact, prevention has that dimension. in this House, in the Assembly of the Republic, in April last year, a resolution was adopted with about 50 recommendations to the Government. What is needed in order for all these recommendations to take place in the field of mental health? They're not great technical means, they're not big devices and technological innovation, they're professionals...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u383	They're people!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u384	...are people taking care of other people.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u385	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u386	This is what we need: professionals! We need — also in the community — psychologists, mental health nurses, psychiatrists, pediatricians. And we need a very important thing, Minister, which is the link between the various levels of care: primary health care, multidisciplinary teams in the community and hospital care. If we do not work on this articulation, we will continue to fail in the necessary response in mental health.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u387	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u388	Mr Minister, let me tell you that when you talk about stigma and discrimination, this cannot be just words, because "words carry the wind" and the role holds what you want to put there. I am sure, Minister, that you have to move from words to action. We have to see the measures in the services, in the treatment units, in the rehabilitation units. We have to see measures in people's lives. And the question that arises, Minister, is whether it is available, because I felt very satisfied. We need eggs to make the omelet,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u389	They're not showing up!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u390	...we need what melons are bought with, and what melons are bought with is the State Budget. But the State budget, Mr. Members, who should represent, in investment, only for mental health, 10 % of the State Health Budget is far from that value. We are so far concerned that, in fact, year after year, State budget after State budget, it ceases to invest. And, with Budgets from the Tacan state, it does not respond and it does not arrive there. Mr Minister, I would like to challenge you so that you pay attention to mental health and not to do the same to mental health that has been done 24 years ago, with deinstitutionalization. Deinstitutionalisation has created serious problems with which we are debating ourselves today, in terms of Community response, because it has not been done, carefully and carefully in the community, with the necessary services. That is why I would like to say to you, Minister, that concrete measures are needed on the ground, and for this we need, in fact, a strong wager in mental health care. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u391	For an intervention, you will now use the floor by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u392	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: During two decades of the current Mental Health Act, there are several developments in the context of the evolution of society. From then on, scientific and pharmacological developments, developments in the provision of care and requirements in the protection of fundamental rights. over time, a model of intervention has been established, based on prevention and care delivery, which guarantees full freedom of the general citizen and the person with particular mental illness. It is important to review the current law, incorporating norms, in respect of the international obligations to which the Portuguese State has bound itself. The priorities were identified: the promotion of mental well-being, the prevention and identification of risks associated with mental illness, the dignity of the person, his autonomy and the role of the community in this process. The Government has inserted the completion of mental health reform as one of the investment lines of the National Health Service, in the regional recovery plan and in the national plan for the organization and planning of mental health, at a value of EUR 88 million, to be realized by 2026. And, honourable Member, the coordinator of the National Mental Health Plan is the first to say that there has never been an investment in mental health in history. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mental health reform is under way, but what is legislatively lacking, particularly in terms of human rights, the approach of patients, autonomy and participation, which needs to be resolved, and the social and family context, the reintegration, access and proximity of the community in the treatment of the patient, which needs to be included. These weaknesses were detected and a commitment was made to develop and approve a new legal diploma establishing the guiding principles of the organization, management and evaluation of mental health services. To this end, a working group was formed, which we have already applauded here, and we must recognize the work developed and its constitution, the extended form as they contributed to the purpose of this law. We must also not forget Decree-Law No 113 / 2021, which has already been approved, which sets out the general principles and rules for the organization and operation of mental health services, which represents a great advance and an important evolution in the provision of mental health care. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I'm sorry, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely thought that this advance, this development in the provision of care, provided for in this law, would be recognized by this House, but unfortunately there is still a stigma that needs to be combated.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u393	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u394	The problem is waiting lists!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u395	Advances which, as Mr Minister said, allow for leaving residual situations for psychiatric hospitals and organizing services at regional level at local level. And we already have on the ground community teams, mental health units, an outpatient treatment regime. We have four mental health centers to remove patients from psychiatric hospitals. There is an important principle to be retained: we do not have to "psychiatricize" the patients, we have to treat them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This diploma presents a set of relevant reasons and grounds, including the alignment of mental health services within the framework of human rights, autonomy, reintegration, proximity of care, reasons, which justify the approval of this diploma by the importance of it. E, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we can request opinions, including proposals for improvement. This is not the end, it is the beginning of a process that, in the specialty, we can improve with the contribution of all. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u396	The objectives of mental health policy are expressed in this new law and ensure a set of guarantees and protection of freedoms and the autonomy of people who need to safeguard and guarantee. There is a way along, there is work done, the commitment is to continue. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, they spoke about October 10, when the World Day of Mental Health was marked. It is important to mention here what Mr. National Coordinator of Mental Health, Dr. Miguel Xavier, said: « the reform of services is taking place and at the right pace ». I regret that the PSD did not mention in this House, when he spoke about the National Mental Health Program, the delay that involved in this program, when he abandoned it, creating a delay that lasted six years to recover. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u397	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u398	Ladies and gentlemen. Members: To conclude, I sincerely hoped that today, in this House, that many of us call the House of Democracy a non-number of times, the advance that this law represents would be recognized and supported. Combating stigma is a great challenge for each one of us, and it must begin. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u399	I'll tell you what the stigma is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u400	For an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Fernanda Velez has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u401	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With the COVID-19 pandemic, the lives of Portuguese changed radically. The confinement, the physical distance, the fear of contracting infection, the economic crisis and uncertainty in the future forced us to postpone plans, adjust habits and routines. Now, the consequent increase in stress and anxiety have caused the mental health of the Portuguese to become very damaged. But, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, the truth is that, long before this pandemic, there was already a high prevalence of mental illness in our country, the result of the chronic disinvestment that has existed in this area. In fact, it is the government itself that acknowledges this failure when it states in the PRR, and I quote, that « Portugal is, today, with great difference, the most backward country in Western Europe as regards the degree of development of mental health services. In fact, when it is estimated that the financing of mental health services does not reach 5 % of the total expenditure of the SNS, it is not surprising that the response to the needs of the population is insufficient. Because of the crucial importance in the quality of life of people and in the social and economic development itself of our country, it is therefore important to reformulate the system of governance and financing mental health care. For the PSD, mental health is a cause that everyone should join, demanding of the government, more than plans, words, promises and announcements, the taking of concrete and effective measures that respond to the real needs and needs of the Portuguese. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u402	We will therefore vote in favour of all the legislative initiatives under consideration, not because we agree with all the proposals, but because we believe that they all deserve to be discussed in the specialty. It should be noted that the PSD would like to rejoice at the fact that the new Minister of Health, unlike its predecessor, has agreed with the PSD in the need for better coordination and interaction between public and private hospitals and the private sector, either between themselves or with the institutions of the social sector, as well as with the services of the community that provide mental health care. Unfortunately, contrary to what he has said for years in the public sphere, the Minister shows that he has the same ideological blindness as the Prime Minister and other members of the Government. At the conclusion of this debate, we reaffirm the willingness of the PSD to improve the Government's proposal in the field of expertise. This is a matter that calls us all, because, more than divergences, our focus is on people. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u403	I now give the floor to Mr Pedro Frazão on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u404	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to stress Mr Pedro Filipe Soares' lack of courage — who is not here anymore — because he must have noticed that I was going to reply to him —... [[BE's laughs.]] ... that, instead of asking for clarifications regarding our bill, he chose to go to the rostrum and say that he had no respect for the arrive instead of presenting his own bill. And here's the back of the applause management, because it soon broke out applause from the PS bench. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I must say to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares — who must be looking at the Chambers — and to the Left Block Parliamentary Group, who should, yes, democratically respect the coming party. [[Laughing.]] You know why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? Because we've had twice as many of your votes in the autarchics, twice as many of your votes in the legislatives...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u405	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u406	...and four times the votes of your presidential candidate! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Democratic respect is very nice and Mr Pedro Filipe Soares is old enough to have it. In addition, one who should be ashamed was the Left Block itself, which comes here talking about mental health, while promoting a bill to legalize light drugs, such as cannabis, when these are responsible for 600 hospitalizations for psychiatric outbreaks in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]] You're here, ladies. Members :« Hospitalizations of cannabis users increase almost 30 times in 15 years. Episodes are serious and occur mainly in men close to 30 years of age. Almost 600 cannabis users are hospitalized each year with severe psychotic outbreaks. Do not keep on seeking. ” With regard to Mrs Susana Correia, I would like to tell you that the stigma is the waiting lists. Mr Health Minister, I want to ask you why you did not come with your CEO. [[The Minister of Health's laughter.]] Minister Fernando Medina said the CEO would cost the Portuguese 10 million. In your interview with RTP ( Radio and Television of Portugal ), you said that the closure of maternity was no longer up to you, the CEO would decide. Minister, is your function empty?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u407	He's not doing anything there!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u408	Why didn't you come with the CEO? If he's the one who's gonna decide, he's the one who has to answer. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u409	The Bureau does not record any more entries and, therefore, I am going to give the floor to Mr Health Minister for closure, who, in addition to the 2 minutes available for this purpose, has to add the remaining minutes of the debate and which are already on the panel, i.e. has 4 minutes and 26 seconds. You then have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u410	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This was a debate that, in a brief analysis, we could judge less enlightening than it should have been, but I think it was quite enlightening, because it made it clear who is concerned about an integral approach to mental health, and with the absolute priority that must be attributed to the human rights of people who need mental health care, and who prefers, in fact, to walk around lateral themes,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u411	Come to the committees!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u412	... being even difficult, at the end of this debate, to realize, after all, what several parliamentary groups think of the Government's bill. The proposed law of the Government is a proposal resulting from a group of experts whose name is known, people from various areas of Portuguese society, the area of health, surely, but also in the area of law, who have given the best of their effort to this bill. And, yes, this bill certainly deserves a wider debate, a greater consultation, the possibility of being changed, of being improved—and there is all this openness—but it deserves, above all, that the political parties of the House as a whole speak clearly about it, on the central issue of the protection of human rights, instead of fleeing to lateral issues in the debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, from this point of view, there is an attitude of clear openness by the Government, and I welcome the fact that this openness is also accompanied by the parliamentary majority that supports the Government, in fact, I believe that this is a clear mark of this debate. Then there are little notes I can't stop making. Several of the Mrs. Members of the opposition parties referred to issues of budgetary incidence. I have the greatest pleasure in having this budget debate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u413	We'll be there!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u414	... but I must tell you that, from this point of view, the news is indeed, for the first time, there are money allocated specifically to mental health. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is something that only a PS government can be proud of. There is no more government to be proud of that. We're even a single case! I think it was Mrs Helga Correia who said very startlingly that we are going to reduce the number of beds for hospitalizations of acute patients in psychiatric hospitals. I must tell you, Madam Member, that the honourable Member is wrong. Our goal is not to reduce, it is even to abolish beds for acute hospitalization in psychiatric hospitals, because this is anachronism, it is a technical error, it is a thing of the past that has no understanding of the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u415	We're here to see!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u416	It is not yet possible to do so, because unfortunately we have not yet been able to provide all acute hospitals with conditions for psychiatric admission. We are, in fact, doing so, precisely with the words of the PRR. And I must tell you, Mrs Deputies, that, finally, just because of lack of experience on the spot—and I do not want to be, in any way, offensive—is that someone may miss these old psychiatric concentration hospitals. I met several of them, when they were still in operation, such as Lorvão Hospital, Travanca Hospital, near Amarante, Miguel Bombarda Hospital, here in Lisbon, and I am not even denying the importance of the services these hospitals have provided at a time of their own history, but I am very proud to have been part of the government team that closed these psychiatric hospitals. What we are going to continue to do is a reform that will abandon the idea of stigma. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u417	What about the beds? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u418	It is that the overwhelming majority of patients who need mental health treatments do not need hospitalization, do not need ultra-specialized professionals, and there must certainly be availability of a network for proper treatment and for the reception of that number, fortunately, relatively rare, in the context of the incidence of the disease, of people who need this specialized follow-up.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u419	What about the beds? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u420	This law has all this logic, from the point of view of the organization of services, to give priority to the need of people and to the understanding that mental illness is not a world apart from health, to be treated in an almost prison environment, but rather to be treated in a humanized way, respecting, to the extent possible, the rights of people and the autonomy and participation of these people and their families. Yes, these patients are not to be separated from families, they are not to be isolated from the community, they are to be treated as much as possible in their own environment, and that is a huge advantage.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u421	Look at what you're saying!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u422	Mrs. Member, there may be, and there are, I know well, many difficulties, many problems, but these difficulties are not solved by returning to psychiatry in the 19th century or in the early 20th century. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, I am very calm in this matter, because I can transmit to this House that I am supported in scientific and technical opinion, in the scientific knowledge of the overwhelming majority of the psychiatric and psychological community in Portugal. They are professionals who are of soul and heart with this reform and with the meaning of this reform. That is why we feel so calm about the scientific and technical validity of this reform. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u423	Here we are to evaluate!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u424	We take this opportunity to thank the Minister of Health and the Secretary of State for the Promotion of Health for her presence and now move to the third and last point of our agenda, with the general discussion of the Bill No 36 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to transfer to municipalities an additional municipal social fund specific subsidy in 2022. This last point will take our work up to about 19 hours and 30 minutes. In order to present the bill, she immediately has the floor of Ms. Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs, Ana Catarina Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u425	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by thanking all parliamentary groups for allowing them to schedule this bill, since it is absolutely essential for the lives of our municipalities. First of all, because it is a legislative authorization to transfer money from the State budget of 2022 to the Municipal Social Fund ( MSF), which means for the areas of education, health and social action, which is absolutely essential to address, in fact, the demands of these times, in which higher prices are a reality in people's lives, and also in municipalities. For this reason, it now emerges because it follows a standard approved in the State budget for 2022, which would require the amounts to be cleared from the State budget to the Municipal Social Fund. However, this amount has been assessed, the work has been done by fulfilling a law of the Assembly of the Republic, the State Budget Act, and it has been realised that there are EUR 104 million that must be transferred to this Municipal Social Fund, which is why we present it to the Assembly of the Republic at this time. I would also like to take advantage of the presentation of the bill, the request for authorisation, to stress the importance of local power, the importance it has in close proximity to the people and in responding to their problems, and the way in which this Government respects the autonomy of the local power, fulfilling the Local Finance Act and thus fulfilling the transfer that is necessary for municipal budgets. That is why in the last eight years we have seen an increase of around EUR 825 million transferred to local authorities from the Financial Balance Fund, the Municipal Social Fund, participation in the IRS ( income tax for natural persons ), surpluses established under the local authorities'financial system and VAT revenue transfers ( value added tax ). In addition to this increase, the amount transferred also has an increase of EUR 361 million from the Decentralisation Fund, which increased from EUR 843 million in 2022, and will rise to EUR 1204 million in 2023. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, all of this to say: yes, this legislative authorization is necessary to comply with the State Budget Act; yes, this legislative authorization is necessary to transfer what is due to our municipalities; and yes, it complies with the Local Finance Act and fulfils what is a requirement of the central power to the municipal power. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u426	Mr. Minister, you have two requests for clarification, the first by Mr. Firmino Pereira, by the PSD Parliamentary Group, and then by Mrs. Paula Santos, by the CFP Parliamental Group. Mr Firmino Pereira has the floor immediately, and the Minister will respond together to the two requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u427	Mr President, Madam Minister, first of all, good afternoon, this long afternoon that you are here with us. We must indeed welcome this initiative by the Government to support municipalities and local power, because it is important.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u428	All right! All right! [[CH's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u429	But there is something about which I have to question today, which also has to do with the funding which is promised and which is not guaranteed. I'm talking about the financing of the pandemic fight. Frequencies were an essential pillar in the fight against the pandemic. They were on the front line of the fight thousands of autarchs, collaborators of the parish, and arrived first, when many did not arrive.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u430	And the workers of the parish board!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u431	The Government, through DGAL ( Directorate-General for Local Authorities ), launched an expectation that it would be possible to offset the costs of the parish with the COVID-19 pandemic. Yesterday, through the Secretary of State of the Local Administration, who hoped to see here, we learned that the parish boards reported EUR 23 million of costs and expenses with the pandemic. Former Minister Alexandra Leitão, at the latest congress of ANAFRE ( National Association of Frequencies ), said at the end of the congress regarding the Government, « we are here », « we are here », learning, to solve this problem. And it is important, in fact, that this funding be settled. The government, in my view, has to meet and pay these costs to the parish. I leave the question to you on this issue, which I think is important: when does the government think it will pay the fragesias and how does it intend to pay the costs of the pandemic? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u432	For a request for clarification, you now have the floor of Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u433	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members, the Minister mentioned in her speech that the proposed law that brings the debate is to comply with the rule of the State budget, to comply with the Local Finance Act, and indeed, in the years 2019, 2020 and 2021, the money that was transferred under the Municipal Social Fund did not meet the criteria set out in the law. And these are money that is due to the municipalities. What the government is not fulfilling was the commitment it made to the municipalities, to compensate for the expenses with the epidemic of COVID-19. Moreover, the municipalities report an amount of EUR 211 million. The Government has allocated EUR 55 million — far from EUR 211 million — to them as part of the REACT-EU ( Recovery Assistance for Cohesion and the Territories of Europe) programme, with EUR 156 million missing. The question I would like to ask is exactly this: will the government, or will it not, comply with the said word and, or will it not, comply with the commitment it has made to the municipalities, to compensate for the unexpected funds in the context of the fight against COVID-19?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u434	That's the point!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u435	And the same is true of the parish, which, of course, also had unforeseen expenditure and which must also be duly compensated. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u436	In reply, I have the floor of the Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u437	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a long afternoon, but it's with pleasure that I'm here. Mrs. Members, first of all, what we are talking about is the proposal for a transfer of funds — EUR 104 million — of the State budget, fulfilling the State Budget Act, which was approved in this House for the Municipal Social Fund. This seems to us, in fact, to be a fair claim and it is, of course, to underline the fulfillment of our promises. Which means, too, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on the question they are asking, which is the same, on compensation for expenditure with the COVID-19 pandemic, as we all know, government, authorities, civil society, we have made an effort to deal with this pandemic. From what I know, there's also a strict lifting of expenses...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u438	You have to hurry!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u439	...to then we can talk about the fulfillment of our promises and our commitments. You know, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this government is usually promising and fulfilling. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CH laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u440	You've got days! ... But note that she's been careful!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u441	I was careful!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u442	Tired, but welcome! We now move on to the interventions. For the first intervention by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Amador has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u443	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The open and constructive dialogue between the Government and the Portuguese municipalities, always on the path of valuing and autonomy of local power, which has been the water brand over the past few years, has had another happy outcome. After the relevant agreement reached in July with the ANMP ( National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ), aimed at strengthening the funds under the reform of decentralisation, another legitimate aspiration is now fulfilled : the replacement by a specific additional subsidy of EUR 104 million for the Municipal Social Fund in 2022. On behalf of this bench, a special greeting to the Government and the Portuguese municipalities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is a fair claim, which was also anchored in Article 103. that of the State Budget Act, and, it should be remembered, by force and by impulse of a proposal to amend this Parliamentary Group of the PS. In the norm we intended to clear these funds, which are now in progress, and that Article 103 is fully complied with. that of the State budget. So today we are discussing the proposal that reflects the spirit of dialogue, commitment and ability to achieve, with speed, by the Government and the Socialist Party. Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, we're good. We promised and fulfilled. [[PSD and CH laughter.]] The Municipal Social Fund, Mrs. Members, it is a regular transfer from the State budget to the financing of expenditure relating to the tasks and powers of the municipalities associated with social functions, particularly in the area of education, health and social action, and is therefore of the utmost importance for the authorities and comes at the right time. In fact, as the President of ANMP, Luísa Salgueiro, stressed well, « this regularisation meets the successive demands and requirements that ANMP presented in the framework of the State budget for 2023 and, in the current economic and financial situation, this is essential to ensure stability and that the municipal accounts remain balanced ». The State budget for 2023 is thus assumed as an instrument of stability, confidence and commitment and the historic agreement of social consultation reached before its presentation, as well as the proposed law we are discussing today, clearly and unequivocally represent this sense of commitment, confidence and stability in the medium term. In short, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this budget strengthens the income of families, the autonomy of local power, promotes investment, maintains commitment to sound public finances, in an external adverse environment of war in Europe and the escalation of inflation. in this national commitment where social justice and growth are defended, once again, the authorities are essential and vital agents for the development of the country. Therefore, we will always be by the local power, by the authorities, on the right path. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u444	I now give the floor to Mr Rodrigo Saraiva for the IL Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u445	Mr President, after this drunken / eraser moment, let's talk about the reality and what this proposal has brought here. In the week when the State Budget was presented for 2023, the Government proposed a small but important correction to the State Budget for 2022. Small is subjective. It was small for the central state and for the government, but quite significant for all the municipalities and even astronomical for some municipalities. With this bill, the Government finally meets the claim of municipalities — public for several months now — which is now due to the transfer of this specific additional grant from the Municipal Social Fund to the amount of EUR 104 million and which will enter directly into the city's coffers. It is a claim of the local authority which does not appear in the explanatory statement and is conveniently omitted by the Government in this bill. It also follows that the explanatory statement also omits that this bill constitutes the recognition by the Government that it has been wrong to carry out the calculations of the Municipal Social Fund over the past three years. The government has failed in the formula for the calculation of the Municipal Social Fund and it is only now right — even if it does not recognise it — to the municipalities that have already warned it about the errors in the amounts budgeted for the Fund. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a minor mistake. It is quite serious because it reveals the successive failure to comply with the Local Finance Act in the years 2019, 2020 and 2021, in which 18 million euros, 35 million euros and 51 million euros were missing, respectively, to cite the data advanced by the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities. The only wisdom found in this proposal is even the popular wisdom of « better late than ever». As was public, already in May it was known that the amount due to the authorities was EUR 104 million. As such, the legitimate questions remain: what is the reason why the Executive did not react immediately and included this amount in the State budget for 2022? What justification is there for only six months later if this failure is being corrected? The Government thus obliges the Assembly of the Republic to legislate and grant budgetary amendments when it was already a need and a correct calculation when the State budget was approved for 2022. The municipalities certainly appreciate this position by the government, but certainly regret the delay and failure of the Local Finance Act, which placed the authorities in a risky situation, a difficult situation, even more in atypical years of fighting a pandemic that required redoubled efforts by the local authorities, often as a result of decisions and limitations imposed by the government. The authorities knew that they could not count on this government and this delay is only further proof of the inability of the central State and this Socialist Party to value local power and to help Portuguese in critical hours.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u446	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u447	We therefore have a bill that is also an attestation and proof that the PS is not interested in decentralising, nor in abdicating from the power of an absolute majority, insisting on denying reality and running after injury. I conclude by saying that we have a PS proposal that is stealth, erratic, shabby and late. I'm adding up, the PS to be PS. It's just another Thursday! The PS doesn't even want to manage the public thing at the service of the Portuguese. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u448	No comments! A speech I didn't say ball! It is a total ignorance of what is an autarchy, of how an autarchy works. Don't comment!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u449	We shall then proceed by giving the floor to Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u450	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister : We are debating this debate because the government did not want to approve the proposal that we tabled during the discussion of the State budget for 2022.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u451	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u452	During the discussion of the State budget for 2022, the CFP presented a proposal for the transfer to the Municipal Social Fund not only of the COVID compensation — and the Government has not yet fulfilled this commitment — as well as of the missing EUR 104 million, which are due to municipalities and have not been transferred in the years due. If this proposal had been approved, we would not be doing this debate today and these municipalities would already have the money transferred.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u453	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u454	This shows that the Government does not adopt options to ensure that the authorities have the right conditions to fulfil their responsibilities and missions. Much has been said about the valorization of the autonomy of local power and that the law is being fulfilled, but what we know is that also the amounts that the law establishes fall short of the needs. In addition, the CFP has brought forward proposals to strengthen the financial resources for its own authorities, taking into account the importance and role they play with the communities in contributing to the development of our country. Therefore, what we have to say in this debate, Mr President, Mrs Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this problem could already be solved if our proposal had been approved. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u455	We shall now give the floor to Mr Bruno Nunes by the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u456	Mr President-in-Office, instead of starting this speech to say 'wrong', it might be possible to start by asking for respect. And I'm going to go through almost every bench asking for this respect. The Block didn't say anything about this because it doesn't have autarchs either, so it's not worth talking about. The Communist Party says 'if they had voted on our proposal'. You know this is to pay 2019, 2020 and 2021 debts, budgets that you have approved! Budgets that you have approved!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u457	And at that time our proposals were there!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u458	That is why they should have resolved at that time the situation of the autarchs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u459	You don't know what you're talking about!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u460	Then, moving on to the will of the PS — letting her scream on that side — to Mrs Susana Amador, we have to talk specifically about what is going on here. This bill starts wrong in several ways. And one realizes once again what we have said, that is, the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities defends the government with the municipalities instead of defending the municipalities with the government. This proposal under discussion was the Council of Ministers on 7 October. You may have amendments until 14 October tomorrow. It will be voted on October 19th, in general, and on October 21st, in speciality. On 11 October, the President of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities reported that the agreement is made and that the money will be delivered by the end of the year. This is a lack of respect for this House because, although you have an absolute majority, you know that the legislative process is still going on. [[Congrats from the CH.]] So wait a minute there and tell President Luísa Salgueiro to calm down, because this is not the Town Hall of Matosinhos.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u461	Are you going to vote against? Oh, my God! Are you going to vote against? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u462	Take it easy, too! No, we're not going to vote against it! You, who's all nervous there, do the following: take the time to sign up, because otherwise you're talking too low and I can't figure it out. [[CH's laughs.]] You know that this situation of EUR 104 million is to make past payments and we want to understand something. The Secretary of State is not here, but the justification given in the last few days — these days when the PSD also realized that, upon the arrival of the tow, it was important to talk about the expense of COVID and that the National Association of Freguess said that the debts of COVID are 5 million — points to 23 million and anything, as if the "something" did not come out of the Portuguese purse. Then the PS says that this is under consideration, because there is a doubt in the invoices that were sent by the parish board. We have a lot of doubt — and now I hope you will respond — in relation to the current spending values and the values presented, questioning the honesty of all the autarchs, saying that perhaps something has happened.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u463	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u464	And as I asked Mr. Secretary of State: "What happened to wrong? » You have to explain. Or someone loaded an extra key and sent a number and more, or the cat passed on the keys! The NAP is not here to defend the cat, because otherwise even the cat was responsible for sending the bills.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u465	You need to figure out what's eligible and what's not! That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u466	You have to tell ANAFRE in the hearings you have now held in the context of the COF ( Budget and Finance Committee ) because you did not trust them.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u467	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u468	You can keep screaming at your will! In a short time you'll come here with a rectification. I'm going to tell you something else, and the PSD can take advantage of it to come to the trailer of what we do. You now call on the former President of the Lisbon Chamber Fernando Medina, currently Minister of Finance, and ask how it will resolve the question of, in 2019, the President of the Lisbon Chamber and President of the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, Fernando Medina, have placed responsibility on top of all the municipalities of the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon with the creation of what brought it to the Government, the Navigating Pass, of the metropolitan transport company, to Carris Metropolitana. The municipalities have entered with all the money and now lack 31 million euros. And the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon sent an e-mail—and I think it has been wrong—to the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival to say « do not forget to account for the 31 million euros in lack of determination at the meeting of 31 June 2019 ». [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]] Don't look at the side, Mr Pedro do Carmo, asking what's going on. I'll give you a copy of the documents! However, curiously, they have now placed in the Budget, with a difference, the exact value that the former President of AML Fernando Medina had not put, because there is no money. They must have asked the trainee « places the exact value», he cheated and missed 1 €, there is 1 € difference! The former President of the House has not accounted for 31 million and has now counted them as Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u469	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u470	You have failed to respect the municipalities. The municipalities had to be heavily indebted during the COVID period and are still paying off the debts of the parish boards, because, because they have no debt capacity, they have to have protocols of collaboration with the municipal chambers to receive the money that you do not pay, despite most of the authorships in this country, unfortunately still be yours. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u471	Don't look the other way, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u472	I now give the floor to Mr José Moura Soeiro of the Left Block Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u473	Mr President, Madam Minister, it is known that since May the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, in fact in the context of the discussion in the Parliament of the State Budget, warned that the proposal for a State Budget did not include the payment of this debt of the central State to the municipalities. We are talking, as has already been said, of a debt for 2019, 2020 and also 2021. It was not in the Budget, but later it was included a mechanism to correct these accounts and respond to the protests of the autarchs, which, in fact, were quite sound at the time and therefore also needed to respond to this discontent. The proposal we are discussing today therefore deals with the transfer of money which has long been called for. It is also a matter of compliance with the law and regularisation of the Municipal Social Fund in the amount of EUR 104 million. The payment of this debt, its regularization, is even more important in the context that the municipalities are living, which is not different from the context of the other institutions, i.e. a general increase in prices, the problem of raw materials, energy, fuel, and, therefore, they are confronted with a set of costs that are getting worse. On this, obviously, we have nothing special to say except that it is fair and has to be done. It remains to be seen what will happen to other debts, as has already been pointed out, which have to do with the COVID period, particularly with respect to the Fregueses, and also what measures will be included in the State budget for 2023 — which we will discuss here, I will not do this debate today — which in fact enable municipalities to ensure the financial resources arising from their responsibilities. We have done this debate several times here about schools and the funds allocated to schools; we have done this about health and because many municipalities do not want the transfer of competences in this area, because they say they have no resources to ensure the skills they are being transferred to them, and also in the area of social action. In fact, in this regard, we have repeatedly said here that there are competences of social action that are transferred to municipalities, but do not transfer the money due and it is not even allowed for municipalities to make, for example, cooperation agreements with social security, which are under the monopoly of the IPSS. That is why, above all, what the debate will be about in the future. We agree on this.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u474	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u475	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister : It is not bad time, because it is a transfer that is due, but it is late. And the question that arises is why it has not been recognized before this transfer should be made, because our municipalities and our churches have been on the front line of support for populations at the pandemic stage, in a world that has changed with the war and the escalation of inflation. Another issue is also raised: how are the negotiations on the other transfers that the autarchs claim, in particular the EUR 150 million for decentralization. The Free is in favour of decentralization and the delegation of powers, but we will all have to agree that without the transfer of resources we will not be able to make effective decentralization and our citizens will be better served. Therefore, in addition to these EUR 104 million, it is important to know how negotiations are for the transfer of the other EUR 150 million that the autarchs claim.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u476	For an intervention, Mr Luís Gomes of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u477	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members: We naturally welcome the government's recognition of debt, although three years have been claimed by the authorities of this country. We welcome the role and performance of the social-democrat authorships at the headquarters of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, so that this legislative initiative would come to this House today. However, we note that the additional payment of EUR 156 million is still lacking, of the 211 million of the COVID expenditure validated by the Court of Auditors. We also found that the COVID expenses incurred by the parish still have no response or payment deadline. In fact, in this regard, we recall the words that then Minister and now Mrs Alexandra Leitão said at the time: "The government will be here. » But last Tuesday we learned by Mr. Secretary of State Carlos Miguel that this government, after all, was no longer there, because it is now another government and nothing has to do with the promises of the other. [[PSD applause.]] We therefore reiterate the conviction we have had throughout this legislature: what is true today for the Socialist Party, tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is no longer the case. However, there are several commitments that we want to underline and remind the most forgotten: the weather in Caramulo two years ago—there were also no written commitments regarding the support that the government has committed to give, only 25 % on the investments made. Two months passed from the prophecy given by Minister Vieira da Silva, who said that the Star's greenhouse would be better than it was before the fires, and, after two months, nothing was done, no contract was realized, no work started on the ground. The question now is to know when the Government's word, this word given by the government, will finally be honored. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u478	For an intervention by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos Brás has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u479	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members: We are pleased to receive, discuss and vote on this bill from the Government initiative. Satisfaction because, moreover, it results from a proposal for an amendment tabled by this parliamentary group to the State Budget Act for 2022, which was adopted and which, with the vote of tomorrow, which will convene all the seats, I have no doubt, will be fulfilled. With this bill the Government demonstrates financial rigour, because it corrects the formula for calculating the years 2019, 2020 and 2021, shows respect for the autonomy of local power and for the financial autonomy of municipalities and also demonstrates compliance with the principle of legality. from the point of view of the municipalities, obviously which is more than just, is deserved, and certainly the authors applaud the speed and compliance of the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u480	Let's give it a round of applause.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u481	It is more than EUR 104 million to strengthen the treasury of the Portuguese municipalities, which will surely also be a positive contribution to the pursuit of their own ends that they make so dignified every day. And it is 104 million to be transferred still this year, which is relevant. We are therefore pleased that the Government, as you know, the State Budget for 2022 has only entered into force on 28 June and we are now discussing the proposal, which we will approve tomorrow. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Members of the Liberal and arrived initiative, it is worth noting the following: there has been some confusion of concepts and some confusion about what real life is. But this is understood, because you are still babies, or better, born. [[CH's laughs.]] And, perhaps, it's because of these confusions that so many councillors elected on the lists of arrive have left. It must be because there are these confusions. [[CH protests.]] The authors of this country know that they can count on this government. And more: you know you can count on this party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u482	The Bureau no longer registers for requests for intervention, and we are thus closing the debate. I give the floor to Mrs Minister, who has, in addition to the 2 minutes scheduled to intervene in the closing, another 1 minute and 20 seconds, coming from the debate. So you have 3 minutes and 20 seconds. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u483	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I would like to thank all of you for your speeches. Members of all seats, because it is easy to see that tomorrow, in the vote, there will be the approval of the bill. Everyone agrees and everyone swears love to the local power. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we will recently: the proposal which was adopted in the State budget was tabled by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group and Mr Bruno Nunes, who has now made a huge statement to the local authority, voted against this proposal! Mr. Rodrigo Saraiva, who says : « Coitadina of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, who has not been heard! We are here to defend...», voted against this proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u484	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u485	And you know that if this proposal had been piped, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, today we would not be fulfilling a State budget which was approved in May. Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u486	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u487	And we're doing what's required in October. The National Association of Portuguese Municipalities is an absolutely essential body for the populations, first of all, and for their autarchs, all of them of all political quadrants, who have the confidence of their municipalities to represent them in the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, and which has enabled the Government, with the State Budget, to correct the lack of EUR 18 million in 2019, of EUR 35 million in 2020 and of EUR 51 million in 2021. The gentlemen. Members prefer to say 'keep failing' instead of applauding that we are doing what the state has to do with the municipalities, which is the transfer of EUR 104 million. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand the question of decentralization to escape applause to a good measure, but, we agree, decentralization is few that have defended it in this Chamber,... [[PSD protests.]] ...and it's good to hear the autoarchs, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us remember that it was very recently concluded an agreement that the autarchs say it was historic... [[PSD protests.]] ... — and I'm not the one who says it, it's the autarchs, and so are those of the PSD, Mr. Members — the transfer of money from the state to the municipalities, in order to deal with the transfer of competences. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Decentralisation Fund transfers more than EUR 1200 million to the authorities. So you swear of love to local power, let us do them, with all the pleasure, but from words to actions, fulfilling. And what the government is doing is fulfilling by transferring from the State budget to the Municipal Social Fund EUR 104 million. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u488	This decentralisation will indeed be very good! Just the PS! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u489	Thank you, Deputy Minister for Parliamentary Affairs. It was a pleasure to have her with us. We are about to finish our work, but there are two more moments left. At first, I give the floor to Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha to make a communication. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u490	Mr President, I shall be very brief. It is to account for the entry into the Bureau of the Resolution Project No 268 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which goes down to 11. the Commission, in connection with 7. a and as 13. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-13.u491	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the next plenary meeting will be tomorrow at 10 a.m. and the next item is the debate under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure, on sectoral policy, with the Minister of Education, and two more points, both without time, one on the Report and Management Account of the Assembly of the Republic relating to 2021 and the other on the Drafts of Law Nos 188 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Amends the territorial boundaries between the parish of A-dos-Francos and the parish of Vidals of the Queen's Caldas and 232 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Amends the territorial boundaries between the parish of Caranguejeira, the municipality of Leiria, and the Union of the Freguesias de Matas and Cercal, the municipality of Ourem. In the end, there will be electoral votes. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your presence and participation. See you tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 35 minutes.]]
