ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's start our work. [[It was 10 hours and 7 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the galleries to the public. Before we enter today's agenda, it is necessary to announce quite a file and to vote on an opinion from the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, so I give the floor immediately to Mr Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u2	Mr. President, good morning to all. Firstly, I take into account the opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, which reads as follows: « At a meeting held on 21 November 2022, a waiver of the mandate and replacement of a member was observed in accordance with Article 7. Article 9 ( 1 ) and ( 1 ). the Statute of Deputies, in the following terms: the PCP Member Jerónimo de Sousa ( Lisbon electoral circle ) renounces the mandate, assuming the mandate Duarte Le Falher de Campos Alves ( Lisbon electoral circle ), with effect from November 7, 2022 inclusive. When analysed the relevant documents available to the Commission, it was found that the unelected candidate, Duarte Le Falher de Campos Alves, is really the next candidate to take up the mandate as listed in the Lisbon electoral circle. The applicable laws and regulations were observed. in this regard, the Commission intends to deliver the following opinion: the resignation of Mr Jerónimo de Sousa ( PCP ) fulfils the legal requirements, assuming the mandate of Duarte Alves ( PCP ) with effect from 7 November 2022 inclusive. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the opinion of 14. the Commission which has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I would like to take this opportunity to thank Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, who was a Member for decades in this House — firstly, in the Constituent Assembly and then in the Assembly of the Republic. Your personal friendliness and sympathy are recognized by all. He made many friends in this House. I would also like to value your political contribution. Democracy lives from the debate between ideas of different political currents and the work of each and every one of us in the representation of their voters, ideas and proposals of their political forces. In all these areas, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa noted himself and is therefore here with many friends. To use a record in which you have always enriched us, resorting to popular wisdom, we can say: "To firm friendship, always open doors. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PPS, PSD, PCP, BE, L and PAN (on foot) and IL MP, Patrícia Gilvaz.]] Again, I give the floor to Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to continue reading the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I realize that we have received the request for the withdrawal of the Parliamentary Inquiry No 3 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Possible Parliamentary Investigation Commission for the evaluation of the restructuring process of the Integrated Emergency Networks System in Portugal ( SIRESP ), from the fires of 2017 to the present. I also report that they entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the Constitutional Review Projects Nos 2 / XV / 1. a ( BE), 3 / XV / 1 a ( PS ), 4 / XV / 1. ( IL), 5 / XV / 1 a ( L), 6 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), 7 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) and 8/ XV / 1. a ( PAN). I also refer to Parliamentary Survey No 4 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Possible Parliamentary Investigation Commission for the evaluation of the management of the covid-19 pandemic. Law Nos 41 / XV / 1 were also introduced. a ( ALRAA ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 42 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 43 / XV / 1. a ( ALRAA ), which falls to 5. the Commission, and 44 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), which falls to 11. the Commission. Finally, Resolution Projects Nos 280 / XV / 1 entered. a ( IL ), which falls to 6. the Commission, in connection with 4. the Commission, 281 / XV / 1. a ( Committee on European Affairs) and 282 / XV / 1. a ( PAR).
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u5	Let us then begin the discussion, in the specialty, of Law Proposals Nos 37 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Law of the Great Options for 2022 - 2026 and 38 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2023. To open the debate on Article 2. on behalf of the Government, I give the floor to Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin the debate on the budget, let me say that, having not been in the Chamber before, leave a hug and a thanks to Mr Jerónimo de Sousa for his work and contribution to Portuguese democracy. [[PPS, PCP and L applause.]] Allow me, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, at the end of the debate on the State budget, who reaffirms that this budget is responsible for the present, but has a commitment to the future of the country and of the new generations. It is an international budget built in the context of uncertainty, an invasion of Ukraine which has generated a war, in an inflation context where the prices and the cost of living of families have increased and where what is required of a responsible government is that it can respond at any time to people's difficulties. That is why responding to the demands of the present, in the face of external uncertainties, is to respond with more income, and that means, from the outset, the increase in pensions, the minimum national wage and wages in general, so that people can cope with their problems. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is also a budget that responds to the present because, regardless of the uncertainties and the external context, it continues to strengthen the social state.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u8	There is no better way to respond to the country, people and businesses than to strengthen the National Health Service ( SNS ), public school and social protection. That is what makes a robust state and that is what we have been able to do over the years, strengthening the social state. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I know, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who, for many, is strange the path that has taken since 2015, but this path, with the Socialist Party ruling the country, was that of the right accounts, able to respond to the contingencies of its governance. These contingencies over these seven years have increased people's incomes and incomes. This is what this State Budget does again: it increases family income and increases people's income. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is a path that has been strengthened in its financial policy to ensure that those who are today excluded—and we are talking about two million poor people in Portugal! — they may have the State's response to combat this poverty. That is why it is so important to increase family allowance and to protect and guarantee children to cope with the poverty of these children. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, that is why today we can talk about a budget of trust, which responds to people and families, but also to the business fabric, which responds to our businesses and helps them to continue to generate wealth and employment. That is why, in the context of international uncertainty, we can reach a lower unemployment rate than before the pandemic, which must also be welcomed here. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the final line of this budget, it is important for the Portuguese to know what they can count on. Therefore, it is important to predict public accounts that can give stability to their lives in the permanent challenges each family faces. But this government, despite having its absolute majority, does not steal from the dialogue and that is why during this month and during this week, it was possible to build bridges, build dialogue and look at and approve proposals from various sides of this Chamber. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Allow me to underline this moment, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that the foam of the days often does not allow us to look at the reality of the facts. The fact is that, in an absolute majority context, it was possible, with dialogue, to reach a social agreement that will improve the income and competitiveness of Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u10	It was also possible to find a healthy and constructive dialogue with the unions that allows us to speak today of a multiannual programme of wage increases above 5 % and this should also be emphasized in the context of the State budget. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr President, the government is here with the tranquillity and serenity of those who know that this is an essential moment in the House of Democracy. We make choices with this Budget. The government has chosen to continue to increase people's incomes, strengthen the social state, strengthen the capacity and capitalisation of our companies and continue to bet on the balance of public accounts. There are those who think that it is enough to present proposals that disbalance the public accounts to create the illusion that they are solving problems for people. Here, problems are resolved with serenity, but also with the predictability of the stability of public accounts. That is why the deficit and public debt are important. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are absolutely convinced, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, with this budget we have managed to build a society that is just from a social point of view, a society that is more inclusive and more supportive. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u11	You now have the floor to speak on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Mrs Jamila Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, today we have started an intense week of special votes in the context of the debate on the State budget for 2023, which aims to respond to the needs of Portuguese families and companies in a context of enormous international instability. We have ahead of the famous four-day and four-night marathon to accommodate many uncertainties and future needs, but we can clearly say that we have made the way and that this has always been the way to support people.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u14	This year alone, 2022, we put EUR 2400 million in the package of measures of the First Family Plan, presented in September and EUR 1400 million in the Energy to Advance programme dedicated to companies. This was all the exceptional measures previously taken to support food cabbage, energy or fuel prices. Now, in the State budget for 2023, we maintain as priorities to continue to increase incomes, promote investment and reduce public debt. We strengthen income through multiple instruments, but it is important to highlight very clearly how this bill materializes two historical signs: the agreement made with the social partners for 2023 to 2026 and the multi-annual agreement for public service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Any one of them constitutes a capital of convergence which we are very proud to underline and to see incorporated in this State budget for 2023. With this State budget, we will continue this policy of income strengthening and dialogue with the opposition to obtain contributions. We will discuss and vote during this week on measures which, in addition to their contribution of EUR 2000 million, also materialize a logic of dialogue, of strengthening this cooperation and of seeking to do more and better for people. I would like to stress, from what is already within the State budget, the maintenance of the growing trend of the national minimum wage, which will grow 7, 8 %, to 760 €, in 2023. By ensuring this trend, we also ensure support for families and the most vulnerable people. We maintain a growth commitment of 5, 1 % of the wages of the private and public sectors and we will continue to update clearly the steps of IRS ( income tax for natural persons) and reduce the marginal rate of 2. The stairwell. In addition, we have achieved a significant block of family and business support measures aimed at mitigating price increases, including fuel and raw materials. It is important to stress that the opposition, often in multiple speeches — I am certainly not mistaken if it is what I will hear immediately — tries to sell other realities. But the facts are next to the people and people know that this is a good budget,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... that makes the difference by positive, in their lives by the effective support given by the PS Government. The Portuguese know that what the right proclaims and with which he then actually presents knows a very sad bitter and that nothing has to do with the speeches they shout here. In fact, despite not risking verbalism, the opposition also knows from right to left that this is a good budget. I say this convincingly, because we are all here — I am sure that you are. Ladies and gentlemen — to do our best and to do what we believe, according to our ideologies, that is the best thing for our economy and Portuguese families. When we look at the clear convergence of all parties, in the parliamentary framework, with the articulation of this bill, I can only emphasise that this is a good budget. I say this, because the opposition, by not pointing out any substantial opposite drift, limiting the famous 1800 proposals for amendment only to proposals for the addition of suggestions, of more options, in addition to the options of the Government — the other proposals are scarce! — what you are saying is that, yes, this is a good bill, these are good choices. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests of CH Deputies.]] What you don't know how to do is to stop and have the notion that the sustainability of the public accounts and keep the right accounts, have the options for the Portuguese is not just to add options to the options, is to choose, that is to say what's good for the Portuguese and what allows us to continue to grow, we continue to be very positively seen by all... [[Protests of CH Deputies.]] ... and we continue to have great indicators, which make international organisations say « look at the Portuguese economy, look at the options of the Portuguese Government, look at and follow this path», as the European Commission does, in fact often. That is why this is the State budget that promotes a path of cohesion, which promotes a way of reducing the loss of purchasing power, never leaving anyone behind and safeguarding that we continue to grow. What I wanted to tell you is that the results achieved and what indicators say are also a good reflection of our course, of confidence in the future of the Portuguese economy and of the management of certain accounts made in Portugal. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we would all like to be living at a different international time and, therefore, to be presenting a proposal for a State Budget as well, but we have made the right choices. Everyone here believes that it was the right options,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u15	All who? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u16	... but it is necessary, despite external instability, to continue to ensure growth, economic recovery and the convergence of income with those of the European Union for all citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, we must take into account volatility and uncertainty and ensure that we continue to grow the country. This has been achieved, we will continue to achieve, making the country move forward, ensuring that we will not mortgage our collective future, always with optimism, with prudence, with responsibility, with certain accounts, with dialogue and always, I repeat, always next to those who need it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests of CH Deputies.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u17	Mr Rodrigo Saraiva, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: Today we start the debate in the 8th specialty. The Budget of the Governments of António Costa and it is the 8th Budget in which nothing structural changes. Nothing changes structurally, because the Prime Minister believes that nothing needs to be reformed, he believes that it was enough to reverse measures from the time of the memorandum that the Socialist Party has negotiated with the troika or to make a few remedies to prepare the country for the future, but it is not enough. at the end of seven years of governance and eight Budgets, the Prime Minister presents an enclosed budget in the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ). Without the PRR, where more than 70 % of the funds go directly to the State and public bodies, public investment would be unrealistic. Without the PRR, expected growth would be null or little more than that. The Socialist Government presents another budget without ambition, another budget that demonstrates the PS's inability to grow the country and the inability to combine stability, moderation and ambition. Because, yes, it is possible, even before the world framework we live, to have ambition. That is why, as much as they try to do, this is another resignation budget. The Prime Minister is pleased with growth, says that Portugal has grown more than the European average since 2015. What does not say is that this average in this period has been low, because Germany, France and Italy — countries that are only the three largest economies in the European Union and which have their own problems — have ceased to grow. [[Protests by PS MP Miguel Matos.]] The truth is this: between 2015 and 2021, Portugal grew by 2, 8 % and all other economies outside the top 3 grew by 3, 9 %. See if it's from this that socialist propaganda is defeated. We grow less than the countries of our championship. Mr. Prime Minister and the Socialist Party are satisfied with exactly what? Oh, my God! In view of the inability to bet on growth, they present a budget of remedies, small steps. They are unable to take strong, consistent and reformative steps. There is no tax reform,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u19	There, there!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u20	...there is no health reform, there is no education reform, there is no social security reform, there is no public administration reform. There is not a reform, point, nor is there a lamp that points to the release of any reform—not one for sample! What does this State Budget show? Oh, my God! It shows some measures that the propaganda of the Socialist Party tries to sell as brilliant and decisive, but that, in fact, they are no more than breathless remedies and, above all, without effectiveness. Good examples of these propaganda measures are the IRS Youth and the Return Program. It's very little, very little, ladies. Members of the Socialist Party. This State budget also shows misleading measures, such tricks in which the Prime Minister specializes: the trick in which they cut the base of updating pensions for 2024, which will result in a cut of at least EUR 1000 million, without ever admitting what they are doing and presenting, in a few months, four different scenarios of system sustainability — a tack of an impressive dimension even for the Socialist Party's standards. Another trick is to turn off the value of the minimum of existence, up to which people are exempt from IRS, of the value of the national minimum wage, and to index it to the indexer of social support. We all realize that this change will lead to, perhaps from 2024 onwards, people who take up the national minimum wage will pay taxes via IRS, another incomprehensible effect that the PS did not admit either. So we have a PS that shows no ambition, nor wants to change anything, because it is conformed to the mediocrity that led this country. Because the Liberal Initiative does not comply with the state of the country. [[Protests by PS MP Miguel Matos.]] It will therefore be important to see, in the next few days, the Socialist Party's sense of vote in relation to the proposals presented by the Liberal Initiative to, for example, strongly degrade the IRS of those who are in the first five steps. I'm not talking about those remedies in 2. the ladder, but a real breakdown for workers who gain less. This new version responds to your arguments in the last State Budget. We want to see now what reasons they give for not approving a reduction in taxes for those who need it most.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u22	I also refer to the proposals of the Liberal Initiative to help those who have difficulties in bearing the costs of housing, energy costs and the costs of essential goods; to help those who want and need effective access to health and education at various levels of education; to end the unfair discrimination of those independent workers with liberal professions, so mistreated with regard to retention rates, discounts for social security and the application of the simplified regime. Perhaps the adoption of these proposals does not satisfy the Socialist Party, but it would certainly give these Portuguese many reasons to be satisfied. This budget could have the slightest ambition, but it doesn't. I could ask about relieving families and businesses at this time of trouble, but it does not. This is a budget that comes from a government that is resigned and incapable, and it leaves no doubt that a socialist-born budget will never become liberal. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u23	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Hugo Carneiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we are starting the discussion on the speciality of the State budget, which we are voting against and do because this is a social injustice budget. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u25	They've said that a month ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u26	This Budget has a brand, which is the mark of impoverishment. The government, contrary to what has just been said, postpones the future and does not resolve the present. You can handle European money and tax collection. In two years inflation will be 11, 7 % and tax and tax revenue will have increased 16 %. This is not, as the Government says, a revenue recovery budget. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] This is a Budget of Recovery of Poverty, and this truth has to be said. [[PSD applause.]] In two years, public servants, pensioners and beneficiaries of social benefits lost one month's salary, one month's pension and half's social benefits. There is a real loss of income, but the government often hides behind the measures it announces as a pamphlet. However, the reality the Portuguese know is only one: the price of half-fat milk has already increased by more than 38 %, between February and November, the price of couver-heart has increased by more than 33 % and the price of whole chicken, carrot and eggs has grown by more than 30 %. This is the reality that the Portuguese know, it is the reality of rising prices, for which the Government has not found a real and definitive solution. [[PSD applause.]] But this budget is also marked by a deep insensitivity with regard to pensioners, with the cut on the basis of EUR 1000 million which will harm all pensioners over time. In the midst of such a promise, it is appropriate to say « look at what I say and promise, do not look at what I short or what I pay». [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u27	For what you've been taxed! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u28	The IRS is updated in a value below the inflation of the two years, companies have no real stimulus or there are no incentives to productivity and competitiveness and even the social agreement, which we do not devalue, forgets, however, the elderly and the young—with the PS, there is no future for young people. Young people face the reality of housing costs and having a family and the PS completely ignores this. The government has no solutions and young people have no way of dreaming of the future. In public investment, the Budget itself confesses the failure of this government when it says that it has not executed EUR 1000 million and we are amazed because if this government lives both from the money helicopter coming from Europe and it is not able to execute the expenditure related to this investment? [[PSD applause.]] But they can execute expenditure related to TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ) — it is EUR 3, 2 billion! — or with EFACEC. For those who say they know how to manage public accounts, this is the question that must be put: there is no good management of public finances when the investments that the government makes are not the investments that generate growth or wealth for the country, but they have on the basis of, only and simply, an ideological question. In public services up to 2021, and in the face of 2011, we have another 14 000 civil servants and we know well, when we go to public departments, that the services are working worse, but it is not because of the employees' lack of government management, which fears not to solve these problems. The PSD will present in the discussion, in the speciality of this Budget, a set of proposals that do not make it a better budget, but that aim, uniquely and exclusively, to improve the lives of Portuguese people, and that our interest is to improve the lives of Portuguese people. [[PSD applause.]] It is to improve the lives of Portuguese people in health, family support, tax area, businesses, environment and treat the country as a whole, particularly in autonomous regions. We have a mark, it is the mark of social justice,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u29	Oh! Oh, my God! Oh, my
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u30	...is the mark of merit and equality, is the mark of having no stake in encouraging private initiative. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u31	Mr Ventura has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Dear Colleagues, I welcome them. Mr President, you will allow me to make a previous note on the situation in which the Government is coming here today before the debate on the State budget itself begins. This is a government that reaches the State Budget with the Deputy Prime Minister already outside the Government and is also the most fragile Government of the legislature, after suspicious business after suspicious business and the hemosty of António Costa. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u33	It's just that the absolute majority isn't enough to hide what you want to hide. The absolute majority is not enough to try to protect yours. The absolute majority was due to the Portuguese votes, but justice always makes its way and it is very fair that Miguel Alves is no longer present in this debate of the State budget. [[Congrats from the CH.]] But this is a sign of this socialist prepotency...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u34	Prepotence? The Constitutional Court explains that!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u35	... that says 'no, no, no' until the evidence no longer leaves and the democratic institutions are definitely discredited. This is to the point of being Members of the Socialist Party's bench asking for the release of the member of the government from Antonio Costa to defend him and we will end up in this very sad figure, with an accusation from the Public Prosecutor. [[All right!]] Sadder there could not be and if there is one who today contributes to the fall of the regime and to its discredit is the socialist government and is the bench of the Socialist Party. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government also reaches this State budget with a very peculiar feature and I would like to mention it in this initial speech: for the first time, since 25 April 1974, the Government that sits here takes on, likes, delights and enjoys humiliating our police forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u36	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u37	From this bench, and on behalf of thousands or millions of Portuguese, I wanted to say that they can offend the police, the security forces, throw them anathemas or names, for us they will not pass and we will continue to defend them whenever we have to do so in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Having said that, Mr President, the Arrival registers and notes that it is the Minister for Parliamentary Affairs who opens the budget debate, saying that Portuguese can rely on this Government, as already, they have seen and quote « in the updating of pensions and increasing family income ». The government can get something unpublished: to keep the same lie from the presentation to the end of the Budget, when everyone knows that pensioners will lose purchasing power.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u38	Don't go, no! Read the Budget!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u39	When everyone knows that the real income of families is going to decline, when everyone knows that the government has not done what it could in energy prices and in the brutal tax burden that will occupy families next year, the government, from the first to the last day of the Budget, insists on lies, insists on deception and insists on cheating. No, Madam Minister, this is not the Income Budget, nor the Pension Budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u40	Yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u41	This is the Budget of the biggest lie to the Portuguese, of the last decades in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]] All parliamentary boards were contacted at the last hour by the PS who said that a proposal was going to come out of time. Mr President, I confess to you that on that day I was hopeful and optimistic, I thought that the Socialist Party's big proposal would come here, the one that would truly update pensions at inflation level, or perhaps the one that would lower the real tax burden that the Portuguese will pay next year. But that was not what the Socialist Party's proposal brought, what it brought was forgiveness for the fine of friends, of administrators of the Regulatory Energy Services (ERSE), which, if it were approved here in this Chamber, would, for example, forgive millions to Ascension Simões and Victor Santos. That is, on the day and night of the greatest suffering of the Portuguese, when we waited for the PS one last proposal that would increase wages, that of this pension and dignity, the PS brought what he knows best: to forgive friends with one hand and tell the other that it is already all right. Mr President, I know that the proposal has already been withdrawn, but a democratic House can no longer call the Socialist Party's attempt to whiteen a conduct that justice has to investigate. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, come to the debate of the State budget saying that they were able to make bridges. But they made bridges with whom, my God? Bridges with the Free and the NAP were the only ones that have been able to make, bridges with the two single Members of this Parliament — who deserve all my respect, but are single Members. Now it is curious that an absolute majority government cannot bridge with any of the major parliamentary groups and must bridge with the single Members who are unique in this Parliament. What concert was there when the CGTP is going to do another strike? Oh, my God! How much did the cops have at the door of the Prime Minister's house last night? Oh, my God! When did the embassy officials announce a strike? Oh, my God! When did the Public Administration announce a strike? Oh, my God! But what social dialogue is there?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u43	We must stop having this virtual reality in which the government lives that it is to arrive here and say that we are building bridges with the parties. Zero! We're building bridges with society. Zero! We're doing social consultation. Zero! We are at a level of conflict as we have never had, and the government is here talking about consensus and social dialogue. Mr.Minister, you are convinced of one thing: it only makes social consultation with a force, which is that of your bench and the Socialist Party. There is no consultation in your government with anyone else in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]] And this is called prepotence, because it is only with the absolute parliamentary majority that makes social consultation. Outside, the social forces, the companies, the workers, no one already believes in any social consultation of the PS. This is the point where we came to the discussion of the budget in the specialty and, when we thought that the debate was going to start seriously, Mrs Jamila Madeira says that we delivered 1800 proposals and that this is a sign that we like the PS Budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u44	How many are plagiarized?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u45	The honourable Member has been able to see what no one has seen, i.e., that there are 1800 proposals is a sign that we appreciate the Socialist Budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u46	Tell me what changes? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u47	Now, ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you that this is precisely the opposite. If there has been a record of proposals this year on fire-related matters, doctors, police, health professionals, highways — in which we have to pay tolls, with 10 % rising prices — an increase in wages, pensions, degradation of communication routes and infrastructures, it is because your Budget is not worth anything. That is why we have submitted 1800 amendments to the budget. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr President, I shall finish this speech. By saying that it is also paradigmatic that the government reaches the end of the State budget with the motto « families first ». In fact, there are families who are always at first and it is curious and iconic that we arrive at this moment with the news that young Tiago Cunha, 21 years old, affiliated to socialist youth, entered directly to the office of Ms. Mariana Vieira da Silva, who is not here today, earning a salary as a member or superior to that. It is the total motto « families first», but with a difference: socialist families before the families of others. For us, they won't pass! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u48	Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias, ask for the floor for what effect.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u49	Mr President, it is an inquiry into the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u50	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u51	Mr. President, it's just to restore the truth,... [[Is it an inquiry or is it to restore the truth?]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u52	... because Mr. André Ventura, knowing -we, lied in this House, but it must have been for a while, certainly. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has indeed called on all parliamentary groups to submit two proposals beyond the deadline. None of them is what you say we have withdrawn, but it is true that one of them is the one that will allow the government to update pensions based on inflation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u53	Mr. André Ventura, ask for the floor, I imagine, for the same purpose. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u54	Mr President, it is for the same purpose. The Group of the Party of European Socialists will request that the documents be delivered to Mr Eurico Brillante Dias, who certainly did not mention all the news and information relating to the proposal that the Socialist Party delivered and the effect that two energy service administrators had to forgive. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u55	For an intervention which will be listened very carefully to on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The proposal for a State Budget submitted by the Government is a programme to deepen inequalities and injustices. It is a budget proposal with no substantive answers to the country's problems. For our part, the opposition of the CFP to this Budget is also due to the presentation of proposals and alternatives. Where the Government deepens the impoverishment of the majority of the population, the CFP proposes and defends the recovery and enhancement of the purchasing power of public administration workers and pensioners, from then on, with increases of pensions without cuts and at least 50 €, now.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u57	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u58	Where the Government maintains the free wheel over the prices of essential goods and services, the CFP proposes and defends the control and fixing of prices for food cabaz, fuel and energy, as well as the reduction of VAT (value added tax) and the enforcement of a regulated rate in electricity and gas, including gas. We propose strengthening the right to housing, so that no one is left without home, with emphasis on a lower limit on income updating, or also on responding to the rise in Euribor rates, with a reduction in bank fees and other charges charged by banks. Where the Government deepens the deresponsibility of public school and the degradation of the National Health Service, the CFP proposes and defends measures for strengthening public services, in particular, and, urgently, of the SNS, with an exclusive dedication regime, wage increase and counting of service time for the purposes of progression, hiring doctors and family nurses, measures that extend to all public services.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u59	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u60	Where the government extends tax bills to large economic groups, the CFP proposes relief on the lowest incomes and taxation of millionaire profits and the end of tax privileges, to get the money where it is accumulation. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u61	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on this budget will take place in the confrontation between the options that the PS Government intends to impose and the alternatives that the CFP proposes and defends. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u62	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this budget is the symbol of a dissonance between what the government says and what it does. Mr. Prime Minister already knew about the increase in inflation when he announced paragraph 1. the May year, which the Government's objective was to increase wages in GDP ( gross domestic product ). Five months after that promise, the Government shall submit to the Assembly of the Republic the State Budget which consolidates the largest transfer of the millennium of earnings from work to capital and which condemns all workers and pensioners to real losses of wages and pensions. Mrs. Minister, don't talk again about family income increases here. All workers and pensioners will have real loss of salary and pension over these two years, 2022 and 2023.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u64	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u65	in this process, first, the government starts by denying the inevitable, saying that inflation will not rise. Then he twists the argument that inflation is temporary, knowing that inflation can be temporary, but that just means that prices will not continue to rise. However, the prices that have already risen will not come down, and that means that every cent of unpaid price increase in wages is a real cut in wages and is a real cut in pensions. In view of this evidence, the government is now telling us that the phrase "we are all going to impoverish, it is inevitable". I mean, it's inevitable that we all impoverish. We all know that inflation is caused by supply, we all know that there is abuse of speculation, that there is abuse of profit margins that are causing inflation. But knowing this, the government chooses not to control prices and not to control profit margins. It also maintains a generous palette of tax benefits to non-standard residents, digital nomads, real estate, and extends the tax benefits, this time also to large companies, also to crypto-moods — digital assets exempt from taxation was a major contribution of the Socialist Party to this debate and presented a proposal for a change to the budget! ... The government's choice goes further, in fact, because it replaces wage increases and pensions that people are entitled to on-the-spot support. Public servants will lose more than one month's salary per year, but the government gave them € 125 in October. As far as pensioners are concerned, the government has managed to cut off future rights for all and present this to the country as a generous and extraordinary support. We therefore have a government that chooses an extended country for every support that the Government intends to give in the future, rather than a people who are respected in their wages, in their pensions, in their right. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, impoverishment is not inevitable, impoverishment is not fate, it is a government choice, it is the choice of this State budget and we will therefore vote against it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u66	Mr Inês Sousa Real, of the NAP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate we are going to have this week, until Friday, is a debate on options. The options of a government and an absolute majority bench that will choose between families and absolutely incomprehensible benefits. They will have to choose whether they want to approve a budget that is the SOS of families, which they need in this context of inflation, and in which, as the NAP proposes, they have zero VAT in products that make up the essential cabaz, which has an extension of the social electricity tariff, at least at the rate of inflation, as well as the freeness of the passes for children, young people, the elderly and the most vulnerable, or if, on the contrary, they want to approve a Budget which pretends that there is no recession in the next year, which gives 66 % of the expenditure with tax benefits at the headquarters of IRS to non-standard residents or which proposes an update of the steps of IRS which does not take into account the effects of inflation and which, therefore, will lead to the loss of income between €19 and €368. With regard to combating the climate crisis, it is necessary to decide whether we want to approve an budget which, as the NAP proposes, meets the calls we have heard in recent weeks for many young people who have gone out on the street and have manifested themselves — or even the calls we have heard recently at the COP27 (United Nations Conference on Climate Change) — and which will fight and block the point of non-return with positive measures, such as the fall from IRC to companies that have the best environmental practices, such as acquiring social passes for their workers, encouraging sustainable mobility or giving families public participation in the purchase of bicycles or using sustainable vehicles, or if we want to approve a budget that gives EUR 25 million in tax stations for large pollutants and that thinks that the solution to the energy crisis is going through incentives for fossil fuels. It is that what we see are options that require more sacrifices, but not those that pollute the most. In this respect, the NAP proposes the application of the carbon rate to private jets. This is more of the same and does not translate a paradigm shift in the commitment to combat the climate crisis and the protection of natural resources. As regards the detention of pet animals, we have data that tell us that there are currently 200 % more expensive elements, which costs families more than 30 %, which a year ago the abandonment rate shot at the arrow. But what we see is an option that maintains the value previously provided for in the Budget for collection centres and animal protection associations, rather than updating at the inflation rate. The option cannot be for a Budget that has millions for subsidies, support, tax benefits or tax reductions for livestock, fishing, hunting baronate, the lobby of the Tauromachy and then presents a fund for the protection and animal welfare that continues to undermine local authorities and animal protection associations. This is not the path that the NAP wants, nor is that the path that the NAP proposes. The NAP proposes that, in fact, we bet and choose to guarantee the reduction of the VAT of veterinary services, to ensure the increase of the budget to reach the most vulnerable families that have pets and also to ensure medical and veterinary care at affordable cost. The NAP recognises that there are options for this Budget that constitute good progress. However, in order to meet the challenges that present times require, it is necessary to go further. It remains for us to know what the PS posture will be, that is, whether it will be a dialogative posture and capable of welcoming the vision of opposition parties or whether it will be closed upon itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u68	For an intervention on behalf of the Free Party, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Minister, Faces and Dear colleagues, a serious and real-life budgetary discussion is not a discussion between those who think spending is always good and those who think cutting is always good. It is also not a discussion between those who think that spending is good when in opposition and that cutting is good when in government. I remember what I was saying in 2011, in a situation that has some similarities with the current one: going too far in fiscal consolidation could lead us to a recession. I didn't forget what I was saying in 2011 and I hope that, a little more than a decade later, the PS and the government didn't forget either, because at the time they were saying the same thing as me and now I hope they won't say anything else. We have a challenging situation in international terms, that is true. But when the government says that it wants to take off the debt platoon, or the public debt podium in Europe, and says that we will be, in terms of public debt, behind Spain, France or Belgium very soon, not only because the government gives priority to budgetary consolidation, it is because at the moment Spain, France and Belgium do more to support the economy in the face of the risks of recession. And, therefore, to say that only this path is responsible means that it is irresponsible for the governments of France, Spain and Belgium, which the Government will certainly not want to do, and means that it is irresponsible for the aggregate of the European Union, where there is a slight rise of two tenths of the deficit to support the economy in the periods of recession coming there. Governments must make anticyclical policy. The Portuguese Government, when it says it is doing what it is doing because it needs to meet the international expectations of markets and Europe, forgets one thing: it is out of the question with the European Union. If I was in a tendency with the European Union right now, I wasn't stepping on the brake in the middle of the curve, I was giving a little acceleration to the economy. I was doing so not only because the economic challenges are great, but also because the political challenges are great. The PS cannot say here, nor can the government, that the budget it presents—of course, it thinks it is good and convinced of it—is the best of all possible budgets. That is, if you do, you will be giving a sign, at this time of the Legislature, that only the PS has the right ideas, only the PS knows the way and no one else needs to hear. The political risk in this case would be as serious or more serious than the economic risk, because it would not only be by 2023, it would be until the end of the legislature. If the PS gives this signal now, it means that either it is the absolute majority or it is a situation in which the right is understood with the extreme right to present its way, which is not ours.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u70	Good!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u71	If the PS votes against the proposals on the left, and for the Free, it will certainly be very easy for those with an absolute majority. In 120 Members, the Free has 1, then it is very easy to lead the proposals of the Free. What will be difficult is to justify out there that, at a time when winter will be even more difficult in terms of energy billing, if you vote against the enlargement and deepening of Programme 3C, including a tax credit that even government members defend in the press. If they do not support or do not advance with a national rail pass for people who are dependent on the use of their private cars and who have been expelled from the cities, if they do not support Portugal's most vulnerable families with extraordinary assistance, only to 2023, the family allowance, and who is in line with what Mr. Prime Minister said to the PS bench, i.e. expenses that are only for 2023 and that do not become structural for the other years, then it will be difficult to justify the vote against proposals approaching Portugal on the European line which is currently in support of the economy, against recession and not the opposite. Therefore, that the PS understands in the next few days—and the ball is clearly on your side, because on our side the proposals have been delivered—that defending the country and defending democracy is knowing how to work together and how to support those proposals which, outside, everyone understands that they are just, necessary and, I would say, urgent.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u72	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Miguel Cabrita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when we start the debate, in the speciality, of the State budget for 2023, after the general debate and subsequent hearings, I would like to say that of course this is a budget of truth, of dialogue and decisive for the lives of the Portuguese in 2023 and in the following years.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u74	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u75	Why? Because it is a Budget that achieves a balance that none of the opposition proposals achieve or even intends to achieve; because it is a Budget that responds to short-term difficulties, but does not abdicate from the priority to the protection and increase of incomes and to the strengthening of the competitiveness of the economy; because it is a Budget that gives answers, but does not lack the right accounts, so decisive that the path of progress, confidence, predictability is sustainable over time. Fighting by people and companies, but also fighting for certain accounts, by reducing the country's debt and by keeping the deficit controlled is not sexy in the real auction of opposition proposals, but it's just not sexy because it's not matter. The accounts are balanced, the debt is being reduced, the deficit is controlled. On the day when this matter became a subject, then, yes, the opposition would be able to give courage, to criticize the government and to take advantage of the country's bad situation. That's not our way. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I support families, support businesses, but also a tax policy to serve people, family incomes and business competitiveness, with significant progress in the area of taxation to achieve these designs. This is the case in the IRS, with the steps updated at 5, 1 %, with the reduction of the rate applied to income corresponding to 2. the step, with the minimum of existence reform, so that more families with lower incomes are exempt from payment, with the deepening of the IRS Young. This is also the case in the IRC (the income tax of the public ), with the reduced rate extended to small and medium-sized enterprises, with new incentives for the capitalisation of companies, through deductions for the increase of own capital,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u76	The Liberal Initiative does not listen, it does not learn!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u77	... with the improvement of the tax system of investment support in convergence regions...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u78	Listen, listen!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u79	... or also with the new tax system of loss deduction, competitive at European level. In addition, in conjunction with the income agreement, for the first time in IRC, there is a stimulus to wage increases above 5 %, so that higher wage increases are made, so that companies can bear them and so that business taxation is friendly with family income. There is also progress towards a fairer and more transparent taxation, with fewer spaces for fraud and tax evasion, with the new crypto system of taxation, so far completely unregulated, in line with the good practices of other European countries, and with a temporary contribution on extraordinary profits, also aligned with European decisions in this area. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] Nevertheless, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has put forward proposals to improve the Government's initial text : in promoting transparency and fiscal justice; in the IRS, with the deepening of the cryptoactive regime, to also cover residents in tax havens and to pay for mining these coins, typically with a strong ecological footprint; in the IMT (municipal tax on onerous transfers of buildings), with the aim of the so-called 'technical exchanges', which are legitimately exploiting existing exemptions for permuts, and with the harmonisation of real estate gains for residents and non-residents, to be more fair with our immigrants and the Portuguese communities;...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u81	... and also, within IMI (municipal property tax), in support of income and access to housing, with an even greater limitation of the tax benefit of owners, to prevent flight practices to the roof of income increase of 2 %, and with more power for municipal chambers to aggravate the IMI in urban pressure areas in buildings not available for permanent own housing, in particular in local housing, and to declare real estate as returned at the end of a year. These are just examples of the orientation for the country's priorities and for the needs of families, but also of that which is the driving line of this State budget for 2023 and the position of the PS in relation to it, with balanced but determined solutions, to have measures and taxation at the service of people and businesses and, above all, to have a Budget that meets the challenges of the short term, but that does not ignore the strategic priorities, priorities that may not be those of the opposition, but are those of the country, ours, are the Portuguese people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u82	We have thus concluded the debate on Article 2. the next intervention concerns Article 14. o — Budget with a gender perspective and it is up to Mrs Patrícia Faro of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Minister of State, Faces and Dear colleagues, the prevention and fight against violence against women and domestic violence (VD ) is a priority area in socialist governments, and this Government continues to guarantee the centrality of this problem. Over the past 10 years, we have invested and developed strategic responses to prevention, monitoring and protection of victims, children and adults. It is more than EUR 22 million, distributed by various government areas, which aim to continue this desired policy of preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence with concrete measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u84	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u85	We emphasize the creation of the respective database on homicides and other forms of violence against women and domestic violence and the development of projects aimed at strengthening intervention within 72 hours following the complaint and integrated risk management. We also highlight the intervention manual within 72 hours, the review of the VD standard news/denunciation auto and the review of the Victim's Statute, including a new wording with a more accessible language. We also highlight the continuing training of police officers, at the level of people and the humanization of spaces, not only in the security forces, but also in the courts, who continue to move forward with the creation of victim care offices in the DIAP ( Departments of Research and Criminal Action ), whose model of intervention organization has been very positive. We continue to invest in an integrated way in the primary intervention, early intervention, repairing intervention, minimization of damage, through the construction and development of manuals and instruments that support the action of all professionals. We continue to prioritize victim protection measures and services through the National Domestic Violence Victim Support Network, including specialized responses for people over 65 years of age and for victims with mental illness and specific reception of LGBTI people ( lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transgender and intersex). We continue to potentiate protocols and direct funding for the processes of empowerment of these victims at the level of housing responses. We do not forget the strengthening of psychological and psychotherapeutic support in the approaches to trauma, with the hiring of about 70 specialized psychology professionals to integrate prevention teams, covering about 19 intermunicipal communities. We also highlight the production of alert and security intervention materials and campaigns with the media and victims, and there is a need to raise complaints and complaints about this information. It is also important to continue financing the annual joint training plan, which will include violence in dating. Need more? No doubt! We must continue to move forward, we must continue to invest. We are monitoring the implementation of the measures contained in the resolution of the Council of Ministers in conjunction with justice, which is mainly about the application of more robust measures to remove the aggressor. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is not enough to point your finger at this government, it is not enough to point your finger at this bench. We have evidence that, over time, we have followed national indicators, all European and international guidelines and we have done everything to stop this scourge. However, it is not enough to strengthen legal frameworks, there is recognition and social censorship that are fundamental to curb this crime, this attack on human rights and women's rights. This is a cause for all people, this is a cause that summons the whole community and all generations. We are sure they will join us in this fight. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u86	To intervene on the proposal of Article 14. o -A — Combating menstrual poverty, has the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we begin by congratulating ourselves that we have finally laid down a standard for this budget to be gender-sensitive and includes this prospect, a long-standing claim by the NAP. But we need to go further. We have to break down the wall of inequality, which persists, and mitigate the gap that has led to girls and women staying behind. That is why we have to bet on strengthening the financial support for non-governmental organisations and call them for support for girls and women too — and we are talking about 2 in 10 — that do not have access to the most basic basic hygiene care in this case. We must not forget that inflation has already brought an increase of 10 % in menstrual products, such as buffers or hygienic thinking. There is no gender perspective in a country where a girl ceases to go to school because she is menstruating or a woman does not have access to these basic hygiene care. What the NAP has proposed is that the government, in conjunction with local authorities and non-governmental organizations, can effectively commit a programme that gives and guarantees free access to vulnerable people. Moreover, we want to introduce a study on the pink rate, because many of the products that are currently associated with gender issues have higher prices. Countries such as the United Kingdom or states such as New York have already ensured that these studies will be developed. We want Portugal to take these steps too, that the gender perspective emerges from the role and that there are measures that will, in particular, improve the lives of women and girls, so that no one is actually left behind.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u88	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real spoke again, now to speak on the proposal of an article 14. o -A- Network of temporary emergency reception centres specific to LGBTI people. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u89	Mr President, while out there are many countries where LGBTI people do not have the right to the most elementary human rights, as is the case with Qatar, among many other examples,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u90	Islamophobia!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u91	... we must not forget that Portugal has made a path of deepening, dignity and recognition of the human rights of all people, without exception. The social responses of the State, for example in support of the victim of domestic violence, are not, however, currently oriented towards the specificities of LGBTI people, with only two responses respecting these specificities. That is why the NAP proposes the creation of a network of specific temporary emergency reception centres, with coverage from north to south of the country, and also that a Gisberta space be created, a specialized care and follow-up space, with integrated responses of support and direct intervention, specific to LGBTI people, so that all human rights in our country are fully respected.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u92	For an intervention on Article 15. o — Duration of mobility, I now give the floor to Mrs Fatima Fonseca of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u93	Mr President, Mrs Minister and other members of the Government, Mrs and Mrs Members, mobility between services enables the public administration's workers to be managed globally and efficiently. This challenge of managing and training workers is also evident in the common objectives of managing public services, which include objectives of good management of their workers, and coexist with the challenge of valuing the people working in the Public Administration, taken up in the multiannual agreement signed in October this year. On the one hand, through regular annual wage updates, review of the single pay table and other measures, the pay gap will be restored and the seniority and merit evidenced in its performance will be valued.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u94	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u95	In line with what was decided in the social consultation, this agreement now represents an increase of the public administration's salary by 5 % by 2023. On the other hand, through negotiation processes for career review, which will seek to reconcile a cross-sectional view with the sectoral views of each area, recognition of the technical differentiation and guaranteed fairness among professionals will be promoted. This is an agreement that is already being fulfilled, with the publication of the update portal of the meal allowance, the negotiation processes relating to general careers and the amendment of the General Labour Act on Public Functions are under way. The Portuguese know that the governments of the Socialist Party have valued public administration and specific areas such as the National Health Service and the public school, because this means investing in good government of the state we want for the society we promote,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u96	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u97	... by reducing inequalities and improving the living conditions of all people. This has been a responsible path, which will continue to be pursued in social dialogue, with awareness of the levels of expenditure that are comportable and compatible with the capacities of the country, which have a return in motivation of workers and workers and in the quality of public services, because we will only guarantee the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u98	To intervene on the proposal for an Article 15. o -A — Valuation of the purchasing power of public administration workers, has the floor of Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, recovering and valuing the purchasing power of workers is a priority. unlike the government, which prolongs the loss of purchasing power of workers and imposes the degradation of their living conditions, pushing them to impoverishment, when the inflation rate in October reached 10, 2 %, when energy products increased by 27, 6 % and the unprocessed food products increased by 18, 9 %, while extending the tax benefits of the economic groups and allocating EUR 3000 million to energy companies, the CFP proposes the establishment of wage increases that ensure the recovery and replacement of the purchasing power of public administration workers through collective bargaining. Since 2010, public administration workers have had a cumulative loss of purchasing power estimated to be around 20 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u100	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u101	It is necessary and possible to recover and value the purchasing power of public administration workers. The CFP also proposes: the updating of the meal allowance in the minimum amount of €9 ; the updating of the value of the transport allowance in 0, 50 € / km; the replacement, creation and exploitation of careers of, among others, auxiliary health technician, educational action assistant, general services assistant, dentist, nutritionist, psychomotorist, reintegration technician, social security lover; the integration of workers with individual employment contracts in public-linked careers, the completion of the PRVPAP(Special Regulation Programme of the Precise Links in the Public Administration ); the linkage of external workers in the Public Administration who perform work through companies; the counting of all points for the purpose of remuneration replacement, with the production of effects since 1 January 2018; the replacement of the payment of additional work. There is no lack of proposals to enhance and strengthen the rights of the Public Administration. Just don't move on if the PS doesn't want to.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u102	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u103	The question is: who is accompanying the CFP in the adoption of these proposals? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u104	To intervene on the proposal of Article 16. o -A — Increase in the salaries of employees of the Public Administration and the business sector of the State and the social sector, Mr José Soeiro, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u105	Mr President, the update of wages for employees of the Public Administration does not correspond to a real increase in their incomes. In practice, the Government does not annul the process of consecutive loss of the real purchasing power of these workers verified over the past few years, not in 2020, with the increase of 0, 3 %, not even in 2021, with the increase of 0, 9 %, which also meant a loss that accumulates in many years. And now the proposal that we speak of, although variable in terms of categories, is much less than inflation, which means real loss of wages and inability of public services attract the most qualified workers, which is even more flagrant in some special careers. It's not possible, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, demand justice or motivation when it is involved such a devaluation of these workers, economic devaluation, in the very first place — with the inflation of 8 % this year and with the expected 4 % per year, and the minimum was to protect workers and the government's proposal is far from that — and the devaluation of their functions, secondly. What we propose is that the updating of the salaries of public administration workers, general careers and special careers should be based on the increase in line with the inflation accumulated in the years 2022 and what will happen in 2023. But there is also a devaluation of other spheres of the rights of employees of the Public Administration, and therefore we propose that the 25 days of holidays that have been withdrawn from them be restored and that the precarious situations that remain be corrected. We have had PREVPAP, which should have been finished years ago, in fact, has already ended in several sectors, but there are new precarious situations that we want to correct. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u106	To intervene on the proposal of Article 17. o -A — Strengthening the fight against corruption, fraud and economic-financial crime, has the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Corruption costs the Country €34 000 every minute. We are talking about a phenomenon that represents the violation of the corollaries of integrity that must guide the state of democratic law, so on behalf of the development of the country must be a priority of this State budget. We have seen that there is a step back in this matter. in this sense, we propose three major measures that not only prevent setbacks in this area but also bring progress. Since the State budget for 2021, which, on the proposal of the NAP, has enshrined an article with measures to combat corruption, which go through the creation of centres of competence and knowledge networks with specialists in this field, strengthening human resources to combat corruption, transformation and digital modernization, which are absolutely essential in particular in the Judicial Police, and also carrying out awareness-raising campaigns. in this budget proposal, this article has disappeared and not all the measures are contained in the report accompanying it. This standard was not merely a programmatic one, it was a guarantee of the legal link between the State and the Government in compliance with these measures. We do not want this step back and, therefore, the NAP proposes that the Budget undertake these crucial measures to combat corruption.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u108	She is now registered to speak to the Secretary of State for Public Administration, Inês Ramires. You have the floor, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Public Administration we have returned to normal, but we have gone a little further, because we have given predictability for the next four years. And these advances were recognized by the unions themselves, with the signing of a multi-annual agreement, never signed before, of the valorisation of workers in public functions. This agreement is important for the government and for trade union structures, but it is more important for workers. It provides for a salary increase of 5, 1 % and also a set of other measures applicable to general careers, which we are already negotiating with the unions. For senior technicians only, we expect an increase of more than 100 € for most career pay positions, the same thing in the category of technical assistant and an important recognition of seniority for operational assistants. On last Friday, we had the publication of the portal on the meal allowance, whose value has risen, from October 2022, to €5, €2, and we have already marked for this Thursday a meeting with the union structures to listen to them about their priorities for special careers, to begin, from January next year, the review of unrevised careers. So we have a long way ahead of us, but we are recognizing him and doing so. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u110	To intervene, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Justice, Jorge Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This has been referred to as strengthening the fight against corruption. This is a priority of this government, which is not waiting for this State Budget to make this reinforcement in the fight against corruption and organised crime, since for the first time there has been a very significant strengthening of human resources in the judiciary. On the other hand, a very significant support has been invested in the formation of judges and police authorities, not forgetting that the MENAC — National Anti-Corruption Mechanism has already been installed. In conclusion, these three elements are very demonstrative that this is really a fight to which the government is giving high priority. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u112	To intervene on the proposal of Article 18. o -A— Strengthening prevention and combating violence against older people, has the floor of Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u113	Ex. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, I draw the attention of VV. Ex. for this issue — 1594. This is the number of elderly people who have been victims of violence in the past year, and the real number is even higher. These are the data recorded by APAV ( Portuguese Victim Support Association. ) Mrs. Members of the Government, how is it possible that there is not a single word in this Budget addressed to all these people? Oh, my God! It's incomprehensible! By the way, I invite VV. For example, on average, there are four elderly people who are victims of violence in our country every day. We are talking about four people a day and we are talking about extremely vulnerable people, for which this State budget does not provide a specific and targeted response. PSD does not comply. We therefore tabled an amendment so that this gap could be closed, calling for the common sense of the Members of this House and of the Members. Members for the approval of this proposal, because this is the most basic social justice. The dignity of all and of each of our elders must be safeguarded. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u114	To intervene, you have the floor of Ms. Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs, Ana Catarina Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira, as you know, over the past few months we have worked particularly to prevent and combat violence against older people. This is a problem that is on the agenda of the day and is a priority on the government agenda. I have not only said that the protocols for the creation of two houses are under way in Mangualde and Grândola, so that there is support for these people, but I also say that the Government is following this proposal, because it is necessary to continue to strengthen prevention and support the people who, unfortunately, have been — and are many — victims of domestic violence. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u116	To intervene on the proposal of Article 19. o -A — Careers and special bodies, has the floor to Mrs Sofia Matos of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the attacks on the truth and the achievements continue to be a constant one in this government, but constant and obstinate we will also remain in the denunciation of the matrices that are told to us as if historical agreements were being dealt with.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u118	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u119	This is an example of the recent agreement which the Government has signed with two trade union structures, but which has left more than 55% of the employees of the civil service out of their own rights. I'm talking about special bodies and careers. In Portugal, we have absolutely disastrous public employment management, which inevitably affects the progressive degradation of public administration services. [[PSD applause.]] Otherwise, see: our teachers are old and demotivated and our students — they are to thousands — they are without training and without classes at the fundamental disciplines. Our nurses and health personnel are at the threshold of exhaustion. They work, many of them, without stopping to eat and arrive at the end of the month to count the changes and without the minimum dignity. Justice is the anchor of the country and has been a factor of paralysis and obstruction of economic development, of absolute discredit of institutions, companies and citizens. And it was precisely these and other workers, of fundamental areas for a healthy democracy, that the Government of the Socialist Party deliberately left out of the agreement. This is what the PSD is proposing to change. First, to enforce the law. Under the law, the careers of the special regime and the special bodies should have been reviewed. There have been 14 years and there are still numerous public administration careers that are not reviewed. Secondly, so that they are all treated equally. We want to ensure that the workers of the special careers of the Public Administration who have been left out of this agreement are not forgotten, so that the cycle of loss of attraction of the Public Administration is definitely reversed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u120	For an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State for Public Administration, Inês Ramires.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u121	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, I have now spoken to say that the agreement provides, in one of the measures, for the review of unrevised careers, from January onwards. The honourable Member brings two examples of special careers. One, that of the teachers, is currently in an important recruitment negotiation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u122	It's next week!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u123	You're already running, Mrs. Deputy! Be careful and you'll see what's going on! The other is in relation to nurses, having just been closed a very important step in the recovery of time count. This step has been recognized by all trade unions as being very important in the implementation of the Government Programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So be careful, Mrs. Member, and see what's going to happen and what's going on. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u124	On Article 23. o — Provision of judicial service by retired judges, we have two entries. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the state of justice in Portugal is worrying and this year Portugal again fell on the score of the World Justice Project, which assesses the quality of the rule of law in several countries. And why? Because in this country justice is too slow and incredibly expensive, which makes it unattainable to the ordinary citizen. in a state of democratic law, we cannot have a justice that, in many cases, takes more than a decade to decide on a specific case. Judicial morosity generates a feeling of impunity that contributes to the growth of populisms and for solutions to radicalize. This is a structural problem of Portuguese justice which will only be solved with a structural reform. Since structural reforms do not exist, what remedies does the Socialist Party have to offer? It has remittances like Article 23. the proposed law of the State Budget, which enables the provision of judicial service by retired judges. We know that the current management of the justice system lacks human resources, but is this remedy effective or even dignified? What incentives do judicial magistrates already retire to continue serving? None, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. These remedies do not resolve and do not even mitigate the failures of the justice system, being far from solving the expectations in the courts. Portugal leaves for 2023 with a State budget to the image of its creator, a tired, worn-out budget whose only interest is to maintain the state of things that lead us to this stagnation, which is already walking for the third decade. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u126	I now give the floor to Mr. Paulo Araújo Correia of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the State budget for 2023, also in the fields of justice and internal administration, is a budget of victories and conquests. As far as justice is concerned, the State budget for 2023 is the highest ever, exceeding the initial budget of the Ministry of Justice for 2022 in more than EUR 90 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u128	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u129	In particular, we speak of more than EUR 3, EUR 9 million in the area of courts, more than EUR 1 million in the area of registers and notaries, more than EUR 48, EUR 5 million in the area of criminal investigation and more than EUR 41, EUR 8 million in the area of reintegration and prison services. Also in human resources, the area of justice has achieved significant and clear victories. Between 2016 and 2022, there was an increase of 157 judges in the courts of first instance, which adds the increase of human resources in the field of reeducation and social reintegration staff,... [[CH protests.]] ... plus the historical step that was taken with the multi-year programming up to 2026, in the recruitment of staff for the careers of the Judicial Police, which will allow the annual hiring of a number that can go up to 290 new elements for these careers. In terms of internal administration, there are also important achievements to note, in particular, the undeniable victory of men and women in the security forces and services, which will benefit from increases of up to 12, 7 % of the basic remuneration, which, in practical terms, results in an increase in remuneration which may rise to up to € 107. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Also in relation to this greater right which is access to housing, there are notable achievements by security forces and services. We are talking, of course, about EUR 40 million, via PRR, for the construction of new housing, which adds EUR 25 million of police contributions to social services, which will allow the immediate acquisition of buildings for housing and its prompt availability to security forces and services, and also highlights the admission of 2600 new elements, as well as more than 1400 military and military personnel who have completed their training this year.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u130	Occasional words!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u131	The State budget for 2023 therefore provides a clear example of the Government's commitment to improving not only the attractiveness of careers, but also to improving the working conditions of the security forces and services and the professionals in the area of justice. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u132	To intervene on proposals for the addition of Articles 23. o-C is 23. o-D, respectively on the reduction of procedural costs and access to law and courts, has the floor of Mrs Monica Quintela of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, access to effective law and judicial protection is expressly provided for in Article 20. that of the Constitution, which establishes that everyone is guaranteed access to the right and to courts to defend their legally protected rights and interests, and that justice cannot be denied due to insufficient economic means, and that everyone is entitled to legal information and consultation, judicial sponsorship and to be accompanied by counsel before any authority. But this is not what happens in practice, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Exorbitant judicial costs prevent citizens from resorting to the court to obtain redress for the violation of their rights and constitute a genuine denial of justice on economic grounds. We all know this! The reduction of judicial costs is necessary in order to effectively make justice accessible to all and therefore the PSD proposes to revise the Rules of Procedure with a view to its generalized reduction. The PSD also proposes that the law on access to law and to courts be reviewed — a promise, moreover, that the Government made in 2016 and that it has not changed from « thirty-one mouth». Legal support leaves out the generality of those who lack it, which, together with the imbecile costs, means that only those who do not have income or who are very rich—is such justice for the rich and the poor—is that they have access to justice, which we cannot tolerate. The first because they are covered by legal aid and the second because they have a lot of money. From the outside is the overwhelming majority of the Portuguese, from the outside there is justice. It is also urgent to review the tables of fees of informal lawyers in order to meet the criteria set out in Law No 34 / 2004, which determine the need to guarantee fair and dignified remuneration to lawyers working in judicial support. It is necessary to repair the shameful pseudo-upgradations of 8 cents and 32 cents—repeat, 8 and 32 cents! — which the Government did in 2020 and August last, which are absolutely outrageous, I have no other expression, and incompatible with the dignity which the Constitution wanted to give, and gave to the forensic sponsor, as enshrined in Article 208 of the Constitution. the term, asking the PS and the government : will they follow the PSD on these proposals to carry out the rule of law? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u134	To intervene on Article 24. o — Recruitment of workers in public higher education institutions, Mr Tiago Estêvão Martins of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, in fact, this is a good budget for higher education. It is a good budget because we now add a new impetus to the reforms we propose after years of expansion of the system. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, this budget meets the highest level of future governance: neither money without reforms nor money-free reforms. In fact, we know today, by the words of Mrs. Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education, that we will have an increase in the funding of universities and politicians, that we will have more scholarships in 2023, that we will have an increase in the value of scholarships by 10 % and that we will have an increase in the value of FCT scholarships ( Foundation for Science and Technology). We also know today that this Budget consolidates a path of public policies in the area of higher education with the brand of the Socialist Party, that we are proud of. Strengthened a path built with legislative contracts, consolidates a path of continuous increase in the number of students in higher education, consolidates a path in scientific employment, but does this, precisely, by pointing to future reforms in the system. Therefore, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no other way of looking at 2023 without being recognized that it will be a great year for higher education.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u136	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u137	I must highlight the institutional evaluation of universities and polytechnics by A3ES (Assessment and Accreditation Agency for Higher Education), the institutional evaluation of R & D units, the revision of the model of higher education financing, the evaluation of RJIES (Legal System of Higher Education Institutions) and the revision of the model of access to higher education, which prove that 2023 will in fact be a great year for science, a great year for higher education. This brings me to my last note, because it is important to take up these reforms, but it is also important to highlight the nature of this reformist momentum. As we see, structural reform does not have to mean less state, but it can mean a new impetus for valuing and qualifying institutions. Mrs. Minister, this is what the Socialist Party's mandate is for: to do! That is why this is a good budget, because it is a budget with more means, but also with better public policies. It is still a budget to do, because that is why we have been elected and that is what we continue to do next to the government by a Portugal of science, culture and knowledge. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u138	To intervene on a proposal for an addendum to Article 24. o -A — Recovery of all time of service in the career of teacher, I give the floor to Mr Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u139	Mr President, Mrs Minister and others. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the arrival presents a proposal for the total defrosting of the time of service of teachers of basic and secondary education for the purposes of career progression, because there is a lack of thawing the essential, which is about six and a half years. It is a matter of justice and respect for whom you have worked. We are also against the access quotas at 5. a is 7. the steps of the teaching career. There is no excuse for the Ministry of Education not to solve this problem within a maximum of three years, which is the time of this legislature, since we are already in the 8. Budget of the Socialist Party. Two conditions are enough: firstly, to treat teachers with respect; secondly, to reform the state in the field of education. The arrival does not hide him from defending the hierarchy, authority and order in schools.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u140	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u141	We defend, without hesitation, honor, good name, moral and physical integrity, labour rights and the authority of teachers in all classrooms.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u142	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u143	If the left, the extreme left and the PSD trusted the teachers they would not have delivered the privacy of the classrooms, often to uneducated, lazy, undisciplined, relaxed, violent students. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The loss of authority and prestige, demotivation, psychological and physical suffering or the depression of teachers represent the essence of the culture of the left and the extreme left, which are never available to cut into the extreme financial wastes of the Ministry of Education. The rationalization of curricula is enough to save perhaps EUR 1 billion a year, and this should be done precisely in the current cycle of lack of teachers. The problem is that the left and the extreme left are always concerned about fattening the state, which destroys the teachers' career, destroys the quality of teaching. on this bench, fortunately, we read Thomas Hobbes, John Locke and Rousseau. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u144	We defend the social contract that guarantees the rule of law and democracy. Thus, the arrival is intransigent in respect for the relations between who governs and who is governed. Today, the ignorant call for the fulfilment of this duty « populism».
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u145	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u146	The reform of the State is no longer to extinguish the intermediate organs that paralyze the relations between those who govern and those who are governed. This causes enormous financial waste in the various ministries. The Ministry of Education has several parasitic organisms that have to be extinct! If there is no money for teachers' careers, if there is no money for special education, if there is no money for music teaching, if there is no money for works in schools is because the left either or because the left is, in fact, very incompetent. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u147	To intervene on proposals for the addition of Articles 24. o -A — Update of monthly maintenance grants for research grants and 24. o-E...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u148	No, Mr. President, it's just about one.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u149	I'm sorry. To intervene on the proposal for an addendum to Article 24. o-E — Programme to prevent and combat violence against women, Mrs Joana Mortagua has the floor. I'm asking the Left Block if that's the case.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u150	Mr President, it is to intervene on the proposed amendment to Article 24. o -A, concerning higher education, which is what is being discussed. We have asked to postpone the interventions, but I will not be able to give the remaining indications by telephone, and Mrs Joana Mortágua will be able to intervene on our proposal for an addendum to Article 24. o -A.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. For an intervention, then I give the floor to Mrs Joana Mortágua of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u152	Mr President, before presenting our proposal for an amendment, I could not fail to show my perplexity for knowing that the arrival wants to cut EUR 1000 million, a budget that does not reach EUR 7 billion, only in streamlining.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u153	It's over the years!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u154	Therefore, I would like to know how many teachers are going to be fired in the proposals for amendment of the Arrival, because it is the only way to make that cut. [[It's reading the proposals!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u155	I would even like you to tell me, until the end of the debate, how many teachers do you want to say goodbye? [[CH protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the scientific system is marked by brutal precariousness. The government believes, as it has found in the past, that the country can grow with a model of precarious science, which is necessarily a model of cheap science. This is also the mark of the FCT's research scholarships, which, in fact, masked precarious research work, with wages that are paid 12 times a year—they should be real wages, but they are scholarships — and that they do not come to support a family, they do not come to pay the household income. This is the mark of scientific employment based on a permanent alternation between long-term employment contracts, punctual links and periods of work without remuneration. What the Left Block proposes is that, after so many years of freezing, of so many years of loss of purchasing power from the FCT stock exchanges there is an update that at least compensates for inflation and does not mean that the impoverishment of the country also compromises the future of science in Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u156	To intervene on Article 25. o — Application of special labour systems in health, Mr Paulo Marques, of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u157	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, other members of the Government, Mrs. Members, in line with the election programme of the Socialist Party and the Government programme, human resources development in the field of health will continue to be a relevant factor. In net terms, we have increased the number of professionals in the National Health Service since 2015, but we know that increasing the number of professionals alone is not enough and that is why we are in constant dialogue with union representatives and professional orders. We intend to implement a full-time work regime as envisaged in the new SNS Statute. In addition, however, we are creating and increasing measures to replace the use of temporary work enterprises, a clear bet on professional careers and on the organization and stability of teams linked to health institutions themselves. Recently—we talked about this today, but I will repeat for the third time—measures were implemented to enhance nurses' career through the replacement of points, the defrosting of wage progression and the payment of due updates, with retroactive to January 2022. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There are about 20 000 professionals covered by this budgetary effort — which is no effort at all — of EUR 72 million. Finally, but no less important, we increased the map of vacancies for the training of specialists, who will be the greatest ever in 2023—I will repeat: the greatest of all! - with 2054 vacancies. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the last two years have been another challenge to the capacity of the SNS, which has given us confidence in it. It was the SNS that did not return the back to the Portuguese during the pandemic, it was the SNS that enabled mass vaccination and it is the SNS that is working to recover the care activity that was to be carried out. We are all aware, and the Socialist Party in particular, that the SNS faces complex problems and the Government has a plan to respond to these same problems that affect the Portuguese daily. Finally, we are aware that there is a lot to do, that much is being realized, but there is a certainty that I want to leave you: for us, the SNS is to improve and strengthen, it is not to destroy, as some would like. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u158	To intervene on the proposal for an addendum to Article 25. o -A— Recruitment of health professionals lacking in primary health care, has the floor Mr. João Dias, of the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the CFP recognizes the importance of public services and the social solutions they represent, in particular the National Health Service and the public school. In our view, it is essential to value all the employees of the Public Administration, because, for us, more and better public services imply and mean strengthening the social functions of the State, which requires the actual increase in wages and the valorization of their careers, to which this State Budget does not respond. With regard to education, in particular, the CFP presents, in this State budget, measures to combat the shortage, in public school, by teachers, educators, specialist technicians, compared with those — these and many other workers in our country — with increasing the cost of living, with permanent instability and with low wages. As far as the National Health Service is concerned, Mr. Members, the CFP believes that this State budget does not respond either, but confirms the undervalue of health workers. This means the abandonment of the National Health Service and the difficulties of fixing and contracting, so the PCP presents proposals for the hiring of professionals who are lacking in primary health care, for the strengthening of the number of vacancies for the fixing of doctors and nurses in the deprived areas, for the exclusive dedication in the National Health Service, representing more and better careers — all this, Mr. Members, compensatory measures of your exclusive dedication. Finally, I would also like to leave, in this debate, what is fundamental and decisive, in particular in the autonomy of the establishments of health units. The CFP presents a proposal that values autonomy in health institutions, with regard to the hiring of health professionals, not being dependent on the Ministries of Health and Finance. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u160	To intervene on Article 26. o — Recruitment of retired doctors, I give the floor to Mr Pedro Frazão, of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, this State Budget is, like the State Budget for 2022, a Budget that does not bring cures for health. In fact, six months ago, they were here promising panacea for all the problems of the SNS, but what we got was the chaos in the SNS and their consequences for the health of the Portuguese. There are more family doctors outside the SNS — they are already more than 2000 — more demands for reform this year and in 2023 the situation will continue to worsen. Mrs. Members, Mr. President, Mr. Members of the government, this has consequences on national health, Portuguese health. In the birth rate, births in Portugal have decreased by 25, 1 % in the last 20 years, and this is the fault of the socialist government. Regarding the mortality rate, which DGS ( Directorate-General for Health) said it was going to investigate, we have a maternal mortality rate with more than 20 deaths per 100,000 births, i.e. the highest rate of the last 38 years. In May of this year, they said they were going to investigate, but results, so far, we have nothing. The only thing we know is that, besides that, they're going to close six more maternity wards, although we still don't know what they are. There is also a brutal non-covid mortality rate. In fact, for months and months, we saw a record of more than 10,000 deaths per month, which had not happened more than 100 years ago. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a total failure for Portugal, for our whole society.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u162	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u163	In 2020 and 2021, thousands of deaths in excess. The experts requested an urgent study, but there were no answers. The party arrived and its parliamentary bench called for an inquiry parliamentary committee in this House, but it was plunged by the PS, with the shameful abstention of the PSD. They don't want to know why Portuguese people are dying and nobody wants to know what's going on in the SNS. In terms of health, we can say, then, that the State Budget for 2023 has two major failures: the first is that it does not re-qualify the careers of health professionals, and therefore we have strikes on the streets, of all classes, from pharmacists to nurses, doctors and even technicians; the second major failure is that it continues without giving due access to health to all Portuguese. I shall end with an example for the socialist bench and for the government. I and another member of my bench went to the Azambuja Health Center, a center with 21,000 users and that has only one family doctor—there are 19,000 users who do not have a family doctor in Azambuja! Do you know what the President of the Municipal Chamber of Azambouja, of the Socialist Party, will do? He's going to contract a health insurance for his municips. It is here: « Municipality wants to assign health insurance to the population as a measure to ensure access to primary health care. Do not keep on seeking. ” The speaker displayed a copy of the news he quoted. This is socialist governance: in this House they say one thing and in the authorities they do another. Shame! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u164	To intervene on the proposal for an addendum to Article 26. o-C — System of exclusivity in the SNS, has the floor of Mrs Catarina Martins of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u165	Mr President, in the debate on access to health, the right has come to argue that more than better SNS, it is necessary to contract more with the private. This is what was done, for example, in the Algarve, with radiotherapy and today there are patients going from Faro to Seville. We know that, in this debate, all the PS will say is that there has never been so many health budgets and that it has never so much been hired, but it is always forgotten to say that the health budget has never been so much for private health groups and never so many vacancies in competitions have been left to be filled out. No one is wrong, the PS and the right need the failure of the National Health Service to increase the private business, which lives under the shadow of the State budget, which imposes extraordinary costs on patients and which protects the population. The Left Block proposes careers and working conditions in all health professions of the National Health Service and medical emergency. I would like to highlight three: exclusivity with remuneration and mandatory incentive for SNS heads to end promiscuity; equal conditions for CIT (individual employment contracts) and contracts in public functions, because inequality destroys teams; equality and other conditions in areas lacking. Between the budget of everyone and the budget for the Mello or Fosun Group, we chose the National Health Service, the only one that opens the door to everyone. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u166	To intervene on the proposal for an Article 27. o-C — Strengthening the specialized sections of domestic violence, has the floor of Mrs. Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u167	Mr. President, Celestina, 52 years old, was shot in the head by the ex-husband. He had filed a complaint against him at the GNR (Republican National Guard) due to successive death threats and he was arrested, but was released. The State budget for 2023 decreases the budget for the Gender Equality Commission. Is this because the number of dead women has decreased or because domestic violence has decreased? No, no, no. It is because the European funds for this matter have decreased. This is what we need to fight. There is no entity in Portugal that does not say that domestic violence needs structured investment and this is our proposal: more money for combating and preventing domestic violence. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u168	To intervene on Article 32. o — Senior education workers in the autonomous regions have the floor Mr Pedro Pinto, of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u169	Mr President, it is about Article 32. I'm going to do the intervention, but I can also talk about it. After all, it's all connected. The Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs spoke of how this was the SNS budget, public school and social protection, but it should also be the security forces budget. We understand why Mrs. Minister didn't talk about it, because this Budget is a fraud to the security forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u170	Total fraud!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u171	We have already had a member of the Socialist Party here today saying that everything is fine and that there is a great investment in the security forces. Maybe that's why last Saturday the PSP (PSC) and the GNR went to the street. Perhaps that is why today the leaders of the Prison Guard Corps are also on strike. As the contract was well made, as the agreements were well made, that's why everything is okay! Portugal is experiencing an increase in violent crime. This is a great reality: youth gangs and violence in schools. We need the security forces with strength, the security forces with strength.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u172	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u173	What does this Budget have? Little, very little. How can we fight crime with few means, few men and obsolete cars? Less and less young people want to integrate security forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u174	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u175	And why? Because the career is not attractive, unlike what Mr. Members of the Socialist Party. The pay tables are also not attractive, unlike what Mr. Minister of Internal Administration said, sitting there, where Mrs. Minister is now. This budget is just false promises. They will say, as they have already said today, that many elements will enter for the security forces, PSP and GNR. And how many are going out? That's what they don't say! That is what this budget conceals and what you hide. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The proposals of the Arrival are clear, both for the continent and for the autonomous regions, and aim to improve and dignify the lives of security forces professionals. They are: transport allowance for displaced professionals; security forces considered to be a rapidly worn-out profession, in anticipation of their reform; and, because it is increasingly important—he does not see only those who do not want to see—and to establish justice, the increase of the risk allowance. The arrival proposes a risk subsidy of €450. This profession of security forces is increasingly at risk. Every day, six police officers are assaulted in Portugal. I repeat, six cops! These are numbers that embarrass us and should make us reflect on everyone in this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u176	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u177	The PS has the opportunity to stand on the right side of history by supporting these proposals, or then to be stuck to the extreme left. unlike others, in choosing between the bandits and the security forces, the arrival will always be next to the security forces. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u178	On the same subject, that of the service supplement and risk in the security forces, now has the floor to Mrs Alma Rivera of the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u179	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, the allocation of a risk supplement to the personnel of the appropriate security forces, which will bring about the danger and the penosity of the functions performed, is a matter which this Budget cannot ignore. A worthy risk supplement is a fair claim by GNR and PSP professionals and their representative structures, to which this Parliament should be sensitive. Mrs. Members, €100 is unworthy and revolting, even compared to the value of the supplement of other security forces. What the government has done and what is in force has been a real breach of the expectations of PSP and GNR professionals. No one can ignore a serious problem that affects the country, which is this state of affairs and the lack of attraction of police functions. What causes this situation, Mr. Members, it is the lack of recognition, especially at the level of remuneration. The PCP brings the proposal to fix a risk supplement equivalent to that of other security forces, worth €400, corresponding to the fair requirements of the trade unions and professional associations of PSP and GNR. We have the opportunity, with this Budget, to counter the difficulties of attraction and rejuvenation of careers, effectively valuing them. In addition to the question of remuneration and the widespread degradation of working conditions, the Government insists on trying to resolve the lack of effective, which is its responsibility, with the condition of access to pre-reform or retirement to the number of admissions to take place. There are still incomprehensible situations, such as the lack of hygiene and safety at work, the lack of psychologists and a suicide prevention plan, although the incidence of this evil is known. For each of these issues, the CFP has proposed amendments to the budget. It remains to be known which side is each of the parties present here. Mrs. Members, this is the time to correct errors and injustices, with the approval of the CFP proposals. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u180	Naturally, in the debate on the speciality, the interventions are very dynamic and the Bureau is not always able to follow the dynamism of the parliamentary groups in the inscriptions. I therefore call for everyone to understand this in advance. To speak on the same subject, Mr. Secretary of State Patrícia Gaspar has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, other colleagues of the government, very good day to all. I just want to say, with regard to this chapter, that there is no doubt that, most likely, it has never been done as much by the forces and security services as in the proposals contained in the State budget that are under discussion here. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u182	Is that a strike? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u183	Whether at the level of salaries, whether at the level of allowances or the clear bet that is being made in the housing, we cannot deny all the evidence that is perfectly reflected in our Budget. Like my colleague said earlier, it's just to be careful. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u184	We're paying attention to the strikes, Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u185	We shall now turn to the proposal for an addendum to Article 32. o -A — Amendment to Decree-Law No 296 / 2009 of 14 October approving the remuneration regime applicable to the military. Mr. Christiane Ferreira, PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u186	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, 13 years back since the military military salaries have been updated, the Government commits itself in 2023 only with an assessment, which in particular results in nothing. The Action Plan for the Professionalization of the 2019 Military Career - 2021 did not come out of the paper and the government is already preparing to reform it. The government is going from plan to plan again. in a context of lack of military effectiveness, it is crucial to bet on the attractiveness of the military institution, its retention capacity and the strengthening of reintegration mechanisms. The PSD has therefore been defending the need to improve the military condition by presenting proposals such as the non-capacitation of funds for medical expenses for the disabled in the Armed Forces, the review of monthly quotas to be paid by the beneficiaries of the ADM ( Assistance in Military Disease ) or the correction of the situation of former military personnel after entering the Public Administration. It is also urgent to give a clear signal that the choice for a military career is a viable bet for the future. A young person who decides to enter the Armed Forces in the square category will be expected to receive the national minimum wage, a remuneration below that of a young person who decides to enter the PSP or GNR. This wage disparity is objectively an obstacle to young people's choice of military career. The PSD therefore proposes to urgently promote an effective equalization between the first levels of remuneration of the Armed Forces and those of the security forces, correcting this incomprehensible inequality. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u187	To intervene on the proposal for an addendum to Article 42. o -A — Amendment to Decree-Law No 54 / 2022 of 12 August, which establishes the programming of infrastructure and equipment of the security forces and services of the Ministry of Internal Administration, has the floor to Mrs. Deputy Ofélia Ramos, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, the Law on the Programming of Infrastructure and Equipment of the Forces and Security Services, contrary to what happened in the past, was approved by the Government and, as such, the Assembly of the Republic did not participate in the legislative process. This is regrettable, because it is a structural law for forces and security services. in this sense, the PSD proposal is very simple and brings nothing new. It is very simple because what is intended is for the Government to refer to the Assembly of the Republic by 31 January of each economic year the listing of all the undertakings and supplies proposed by the Government to contract, in accordance with the Programming Act. And it does not bring anything new because the previous programming law thus determined it, but now the government has decided to withdraw this extension from the Republic Assembly in a veiled attempt to escape its scrutiny. This is unacceptable, because it is our duty and our responsibility to make adequate monitoring of the implementation of the programming law, especially when we all know that the enforcement rate of this law has been a disaster and has undermined the expectations of Portuguese and security forces and services. Yes, Secretary of State, we're careful, we want to be careful and we're here to do it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u189	We will enter the debate on the chapter on regional finance and we will begin with the assessment of Article 43. o — Budget transfers to autonomous regions. To speak on this article we have two inscriptions and, first of all, I give the floor to Mr Rodrigo Saraiva, of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u190	Autonomist!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u191	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the autonomy of the island regions is, from its origin, an unfinished and eternally postponed project. It is therefore important to create the mechanisms so that this same autonomy ceases to be just the name given to the regions and is, in fact, the way governments govern their autonomy and their archipelagos. The Liberal Initiative therefore advocates the revision of the Regional Finance Act, in order to achieve a more fair and transparent model that guarantees a fair distribution of resources based on the real needs of the Azorians and Madeirans. The truth is that neither the PSD nor the PS, over the years and the successive laws that have been negotiated, have ever been concerned about adapting regional funding to the real needs of island autonomy. We therefore defend, and we want a Finance Act of the Autonomous Regions that serves and enhances the economic and social development of the autonomous regions, a law that ceases to be a list of restrictions to what autonomous governments can do, so that they can thus establish their rules without the exception of Lisbon, in particular by changing the percentage of the tax differential. The current law is a brake on the development of autonomous regions. However, as long as this new tax system itself does not become reality, it is of the most fundamental importance to lower taxes, within IRS and IRC, up to the limit provided for by that law, thus dishonouring citizens and businesses — a fundamental way to allow economic growth in any territory. The sooner people get the fruit of their work in their pocket, the better it will be for the whole territory. In the Azores, through the intervention of the Liberal Initiative, a tax reduction was adopted by the limit of IRC, IRS and VAT, which will increase the economy and did not reduce tax collection in a proportionate way. In both autonomous regions, we also know that the central State fails in several areas of its exclusive responsibility, such as justice and internal security. In many cases, regional authorities and governments are to acquire or transfer facilities for the operation of courts and posts of the PSP, the GNR and even the SEF ( Foreign and Border Service ). In addition, cars are acquired by the regional governments. The central state thus allows the flag of the Azores and Madeira to be in those same cars, because it is obviously the regional governments that pay, not the central state, when that was their responsibility. In the Azores there is a Liberal Member who has denounced situations like this in the streets and in the Legislative Assembly. to the Madeirans in particular, because they will have elections in 2023, we want to tell them that liberals know what has failed them, whether in the responsibilities of the governments of the Republic, or in the regional governments, who only knew a color in that region. We are attentive to what is happening in Madeira and believe in a different model, particularly in the management of regional finances. In Madeira, the liberal alternative is also making its way, presenting what we think and what we defend. That is why, once again, a reform of the Regional Finance Act is absolutely essential for the autonomous regions. The Liberal Initiative will advocate a law that upholds the real needs of every Azorian and every Maderian and not what the bureaucrats who sit in Lisbon think is best for these same Azorians and Maderians. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u192	The second intervention on the same subject is the Socialist Party. Mr. João Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u193	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, the State budget for 2023 is particularly important, in view of the context we are going through and the challenge of adapting resources to the reality and needs of the people. The transfers and actions outlined show that we are in the presence of a good State budget for the Azores. It is a good budget, which goes far beyond respect for the competences of the autonomous regions, the increase in transfers in compliance with the Regional Finance Act, the solidarity arising from natural disasters or proportionality in the allocation of structural funds. It is a good budget, when it covers an unprecedented assessment of labour income, increasing the minimum wage and public administration salaries, in a social pact scenario for wage increases in the private sector. It is a good budget in strengthening pensions and family allowance; in supporting young people and families with children, extending the IRS Youth and increasing deductions. It is a good budget in replacing the ring of submarine cables; in improving operationality in medical evacuations; in implementing the social mobility allowance. A good budget that goes to the business context, with a special tax regime for enterprises based in the regions; with the harmonisation of the value tax; with the new tax system for the deduction of losses; and, in VAT, with the exemption in fertilizers, soil corrections and other livestock feed products; with the reduction and support in the costs of electricity and gas; with a reduced rate in the preserved and mixed fish; with the refund on the rehabilitation of buildings.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u194	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u195	In IRC, with its reduction and incentive to capitalisation of enterprises, increasing expenditure on energy and agricultural products, exempting the seal tax on housing credit, for extension of time and refinancing of debt; extending the application of the Return Programme; updating the indexer of social support; limiting the increases in permanent housing income; regulating the renegotiation, without costs, of credit contracts to housing; or with a regional current account for the implementation of the RPP. A good budget, in recommending the financial training of the University of Azores, in view of its triple configuration; with the addition of accommodation for students of higher education; with the prisons of São Miguel and the Faial ; with the recognition of the seamen, crew members of the research vessels irrespective of the management entity; with the expansion of the Horta airport track ; with the decontamination of the Third Island ; with the sharing of the regional tariff in inter- island air transport; or with the new invitation to tender for public service routes. This is certainly not a perfect budget — resources are scarce and times are unpredictable — but it is a budget that deals with the possible, which will be improved in this process of speciality and which, naturally, will have the support of the Socialist Party, because it is indeed a good budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u196	To intervene on Article 45. o — Suspension of Articles 16. o and 40. the Act of Finance of the Autonomous Regions, has the floor Mr. Carlos Pereira, of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u197	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, I begin by saying something that seems very relevant to me at this time: it is not only a line that separates the performance of the PS and PS with regard to Madeira, it is even a wall, a mountain of achievements that have happened in recent years, since 2016, when the PS assumed the Government of the Republic. This is something that can be absolutely demonstrable.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u198	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u199	I imagine that the PSD and the Members of the Madeira PSD will take part in this session, I almost guess what they will say about what is missing. And I will begin with the one who is perhaps one of the most iconic projects of the last decade in Madeira, which is the new Madeira hospital. I will say this slowly, because it is able to stay on top of the Assembly, and remains for history: the new Madeira hospital is being co-financed by 50 % — including VAT, including equipment, including construction — without any conditionality. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This — make it clear! — is happening since 2016. And it is said, in favour of the truth, that perhaps the construction of Madeira's hospital is not running so fast, not because of the responsibility of the Government of the Republic, because it is responsible for financing 50 %, but because of the responsibility of the Regional Government, which has to do the construction and has to do that hospital. So let this matter be made clear! On another issue that I imagine will come—in fact, it has already come—which has to do with the law of regional finance, the law of regional finance in force is a law of the PSD, approved by the PSD, which had the vote against the PS. We don't like that law either, but we did something that was done. The PSD didn't even comply with the law, against the Macedonians. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the political history of the PSD and PS, with regard to Madeira, does not end here. We have, as I said, an infinite list of achievements, which I do not have time to explain, and we know well what happened to the PSD when I had the opportunity to support the Madeirans: the PSD has mistreated the Madeirans!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u200	That must have been why they voted on us again!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u201	He gave a hand full of nothing in Madeira, particularly at the time of the crisis, at the time of the troika, when the Madeirans needed it most. And let it be clear: the PS has, over these years, achieved immense achievements that the PSD itself requested. I shall mention to you some: State guarantees for debt restructuring; reduction of PAEF debt interest ( Economic and Financial Assistance Programme ), which the PSD has placed at very high levels and the PS has decreased; positive discrimination for investments in the region, through golden visas; financing of submarine cables; five new teams; compliance with air mobility, when you have put a brake to its maximum; principle of reciprocity of regional health systems and the national health system;...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u202	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u203	... support for the attraction of new airlines to facilitate tourism in Madeira ; support for the regional health system, through transfers of means of the games of the Santa Casa da Misericórdia ; solved the problems that were, years ago, to be solved, in the case of Madeira's electricity company. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying the following: the expectation of this Budget is not so much, already, about this Budget — this is a good Budget and has an infinite list of good things for Madeira — the expectation is to know how the Regional Government will adapt, complement the good things this Budget brings to Madeira. It is that, so far, what I have seen from the Regional Budget is bad, it does not help Madeira and it fails with the Madeirans. The PS does not fail with the Madeirans, as regards this Budget! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u204	To intervene on the proposal for an addendum to Article 45. o-D — VAT associated with PRR-funded projects in autonomous regions has the floor of Mrs Patrícia Dantas, PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u205	Mr. President of the Assembly, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We hope that the proposal 505 - C, brought, this afternoon, for the vote, will be able to accept the positive vote of the PS. This proposal depicts a systematic omission in the application of national rules to autonomous regions and aims only to allow in Madeira and the Azores to allow what has already been done in mainland Portugal since June 2021, i.e. that the beneficiaries of the RPP of the regions can receive in advance the VAT equivalent to their RPP projects. This corresponds to a financial effort of the regional coffers which will allow project executioners in the regions to have a treasury margin of more than 200 million, which will obviously favour the implementation of the Portuguese PRR, which is a national design. Finally, and because today is the first day of the second phase of the work of the Central and University Hospital of Madeira, I think it is the best day to put the promise of Mr. Prime Minister and execute the financing of this investment. The speaker displayed a copy of the cover of the Madeira Journal of 20 November 2022. To this end, it is only necessary to approve the PSD proposal 469 - C1. It is not enough to say that everything is all right: the Madeirans, in these relations with the state, are like São Tomé, need to see to believe. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u206	We now move on to Chapter V — Local finances, and on Article 48. o — Amounts of the participation of local authorities in State taxes, the Bureau records the registration of two Members, both PS, to intervene in the debate. For the first intervention, I give the floor to Mr Pedro Cegonho.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u207	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The main achievement of the authorities in this Budget is the financial sustainability of the municipalities and the parish. Therefore, it is never too much to stress that since 2016, the State budgets comply with the law of local finances and with the principle of local power autonomy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u208	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u209	We thus move towards the approximation of the average of the countries of the European Union of the participation of authorities in the management of public revenue. this year the transfers increase by 7 % and the authorities also benefit from the increase in their own tax revenues by 2 %, highlighting the revenues of IMI and IMT. The Financial Balance Fund has EUR 2, EUR 3 billion; the Municipal Social Fund has EUR 215 million; the Frequencies Fund has EUR 293 million; transfers to inter-municipal entities amount to EUR 11 million. It should not be forgotten that this budget continues to implement the decentralization of competences for municipalities, which means that, in addition to the resources referred to above, the Decentralisation Fund is still planned, with EUR 1205 million in effect an increase of 21 % compared to 2022. These resources add up to important proposals for amendment submitted by the Socialist Party, one of which is the possibility that municipalities in financial assistance may, through the Municipal Support Fund, have a capital depreciation moratorium during the year 2023. Thus, compliance with the agreement between the Government and the National Association of Municipalities is corporated.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u210	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u211	This is a majority of dialogue, this is a government for dialogue with the authorities. We also want the flexibility of debt capacity to cope with the urban rehabilitation incentive; the total use of the indebtedness margin for the non-eligible component within the co-financed projects; the return of VAT supported in PRR projects. We want municipalities to be able to enhance their role in dynamizing the economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u212	Now you have the floor to Mrs. Isabel Guerreiro, also from the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u213	Mr President, to whom I would like to congratulate, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: This proposal for a State budget for 2023 is exemplary in relation to the local authority. With regard to the parish, I point out two aspects. The first is full compliance with local finance law, which is not limited to other budgetary exercises and in the face of the double-dose economic crisis, by the effects of the covid-19 pandemic, which began in 2020, and by the war in Europe, which began in an unexpected and flagrant violation of public international law, already in 2022.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u214	They didn't pay the costs to the authorities!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u215	The second aspect is the increase in the general subsidy for the French, from 276 million to 293 million, corresponding to an increase of about 6 % in respect of the budget already approved this year in this Chamber. But we didn't stay here. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, which is sensitive to the extraordinary work of dedication which the parish paid to its people in difficult times of the state of exception, presented a proposal in the specialty that would allow the payment in 2023 of the extraordinary expenses incurred by the parish as a result of the curfew-19, through the heading 'Technical cooperation and financial aid'. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u216	Mrs. Minister said she wasn't paying!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u217	This proposal implements the principle of equal treatment between local authorities, since municipalities were previously reimbursed by the Government for these costs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u218	The Minister and the Secretary of State said they didn't pay!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u219	The full compliance with the law of local finances, the increase of the general subsidy for the parish and the equal treatment in payment of expenses with covid-19 speak well of the dignity recognized to the parish in the administrative organization of the Portuguese State, as well as the recognition of its autonomy and its own competences, both in times of normality and in times of exception. The Socialist Party leaves no one behind. Far away are the times of extinction of the parish under a formal metric, in which a substantive intervention on its future, under the aegis of the right government, has been furnished. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u220	To take a decision on the proposal for an addendum to Article 58. the -A - Assessment of seismic vulnerability and strengthening of the Financing Fund for Decentralisation, has the floor Mr. Luís Gomes, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u221	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the time of the presentation of the Framework Law on Decentralisation, the Government said that municipalities would play a central role in promoting local economic potential. In the meantime, the President of the City Council of Faro, three years ago, sent a letter to the Government, requesting that the decentralisation commission be set up for the harbour areas... The speaker displayed the document he mentioned. ...and so far is waiting for an answer. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u222	The government said it would place municipalities at the centre of local poverty reduction strategies. In the meantime, this State budget is only EUR 56 million — you can imagine! — for the whole country, on this matter. At the time, the government also said that there would be intense work on local autonomy and on the autonomy of schools. Ms. Minister of Cohesion presented a proposal for the decentralization of schools to the authorities in which it forgot to study the seismic vulnerability of buildings. The Government has promised increased intervention by the authorities in primary health care. Meanwhile, municipalities pay only cleaning workers, security workers and do some "remedial" in the buildings of health centres. Question : Is this what you call the cornerstone of state reform, decentralization? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]] When does the government take all the time to establish agreements and publish portals? Oh, my God! It was in this sense that we made a proposal concerning the Decentralisation Fund, with a view to speeding up the payment processes to the municipalities, but essentially the suspension of the process of decentralization of social action, because it makes no sense to the government, which has exceeded all the deadlines, is now forcing the municipalities, without feet or heads, to deal with the safety of our children, of the children of the country, by decentralizing this matter to the municipalities. It is inconceivable that municipalities can receive state equipment without proper assessment of seismic safety. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u223	We are now considering a proposal for an addendum to Article 76. o -A— Extraordinary updating of pensions. To that end, I give the floor to Mr Jorge Galveias of the Republic of Norway. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u224	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I doubt that the blindness and political hypocrisy on the left and the extreme left have led them, at least, to read our proposal and, so that the Portuguese can also know it, I will read a few excerpts. « Children, women and the elderly are the groups who are in a situation of greater vulnerability[...] the age group over 65 is the one who is experiencing greater difficulties, with a rate of 88, 3 % risk of poverty [...]. in this sense, it is time to restore dignity to all pensioners and improve their living conditions, bringing the lowest pensions closer to the national minimum wage, so it is proposed an increase by steps according to the value of the pension, and it is expected that those who receive lower pensions should have a higher increase than expected by the government. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u225	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u226	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there are no small increases in the values of pensions that give dignity to those who, on the left, are only treated as old rags, ready to be laid in the garbage, in the good Marxist way.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u227	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u228	at the same time as we witness the brutal increase in the cost of life, we also witness the increase in cases of corruption and the expense caused by them. But the more or more serious it is to see the number of poor and people at the threshold of poverty growing every day. We're talking about over 4 billion people. It is not possible to increase pensions, says the Socialist Government, but the problem is not lack of money, the problem is the way the government distributes taxpayers' money. Obviously, we have heard the government say, with the arrogance that we will never get used to, that this Budget has the greatest increases in history, but the fact is that we are witnessing the impoverishment of the middle class at a huge speed, making the number of people on the poverty line grow. If they vote against this proposal, they will only show that the House of Democracy has really since been the seat of the so-called "compressor roll" of the PS, which, they apologize for the term if it is in the ink for pensioners, worrying only about trying to shut up who defends the weak ones, those who have worked their entire lives and who today try to survive with the miserable crumbs that the government wants to give them.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u229	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u230	We do not want a social state, we want social justice! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u231	To intervene on the proposal for an addendum to Article 76. Mr Alfredo Maia, from the PCP, has the floor to update pensions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u232	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: As has already been widely demonstrated — and the opinion of the Economic and Social Council and the report of the UTAO (Technical Budget Support Unit) confirm - in 2023 and in the following years, pensioners will lose purchasing power and continue to impoverish. The answer is the update of all pensions by 8 %, with an increase of not less than €50 for each pensioner, as proposed by the PCP, so that pensioners and pensioners can cope with the increase in prices of goods and services and the degradation of living conditions. It is an answer that the Government is unable to give and that the Socialist Party does not correct either, since its proposal insists on non-compliance with the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u233	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u234	The increase in life expectancy, with the achievements and advances in science and in the National Health Service, should provide access to reform with the highest quality of life possible and not constitute a penalty. Therefore, the sustainability factor should be eliminated, the legal age of retirement should be restored to 65 years of age and the right to access old-age pensions should be guaranteed, without any penalties, to workers who have completed 40 years of civil retirement. Family allowance, for its part, is a right of all children, imposing their universalization, as the CFP proposes. The freeness of daycare facilities, created thanks to the action of the PCP, needs to be extended to all children, so we propose the availability of at least 100 000 new daycare breaks or similar solutions in the public sector and the development of a public network that ensures its universal and free character. The CFP insists on the urgent need for diversification of sources of social security financing, in particular with the creation of a contribution on the net added value of companies, complementing the incidental contributions on remuneration. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u235	To intervene on Article 77. o — Budget of social security, of the bill, I give the floor to Mrs Ana Paula Bernardo of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u236	Mr President, Mrs Minister and other members of the Government, Mrs and Mrs Members, in socialist governance, especially in response to the crises of recent years, people have always been put first and, nevertheless, without the hecatomb of the public accounts that many have before and which some even seemed to want. The society well knows that the PS options were and continue to be correct and also knows that the options for 2023 could not be others. Therefore, the value of income, support for families, the promotion of inclusion and the fight against poverty remain priority and visible. In 2023, we will have the important contribution of two social dialogue agreements, in 2023 we will have a social security budget with the greatest social investment ever: more 8, 8 million than 2015. We are therefore far from the logic of cuts and impoverishment of right-wing governments. It is a budget that, while not forgetting the most vulnerable, does not forget the middle class and ensures that measures reach more and more people, extending support and improving income. Do so with the general increase in pensions, which, from 2015 to now, grow more than 12 %, in view of an accumulated inflation of 5 %;...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u237	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u238	... with the improvement of benefits, such as family allowance, the guarantee for childhood, the solidarity supplement for the elderly or social benefit for inclusion; with the extension of the free of charge of day care; and also with the updating, by 8 %, of the social support indexer (IAS), which results in an update, clearly above inflation, which will allow the real improvement of the incomes of all those who depend on it, and are about 1, 6 million people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And here we have very varied groups: unemployed, who receive unemployment benefits, and who, as a result of the increases in the IAS, the Socialist Government, see the minimum threshold rise 31 % since 2015 ; or, moreover, the beneficiaries of the family allowance, bringing protection to more than 30,000 children and improving the benefits of those who already take them. This is a budget that reflects well the government's social commitments, and yet it is a more sustainable budget because it is based on economic growth, more and better jobs, better wages and more workers in the field of social security. This is a budget that protects people now, but that does not stop preparing tomorrow. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u239	To intervene on the proposal for an addendum to Article 77. o -A — Amendment to Law No 2 / 2022 of 3 January, progressive extension of the freeness of day care facilities and of the love of the Social Security Institute, I.P. Mr Clara Marques Mendes, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u240	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: We are presenting here today a proposal to introduce social justice, equity and equal opportunities for children. I speak of the freeness of day care, a measure which the government has failed in realising, and has failed with children for pure ideological prejudice. Why? Because, in implementing this measure, the government did not take advantage of the capacity installed in the private sector, knowing, as it knew and how, in fact, it proved itself, that the existing equipment was not sufficient for children who needed a vacancy. Therefore, this injustice has to be resolved and that is what we propose: that the capacity installed in the private sector be taken advantage of as regards the freeness of day care. More: we propose that, in order to ensure more justice, this measure will take effect from September 2022. [[PSD applause.]] [[In the meantime, he took the presidency of Vice-President Adam Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u241	Thank you very much, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall immediately give the floor to continue the debate on the addition of Article 77. o-B — Update of pensions, Mr José Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u242	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, we already know from the report in the State budget that there is no problem of sustainability in the pension system. It is evident that there is a budget to comply with the law of Vieira da Silva. Our proposal is very simple: compliance with the law! Buy the lei! This is the challenge we have left to the Socialist Party. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u243	We shall now turn to the proposal for an addendum to Article 84. o -A — Amendment to the protection scheme in the event of invalidity and old age of beneficiaries of the general social security scheme. Mrs Helga Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u244	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, proposal 1288 - C, submitted by the PSD, adding to the bill a new article 84. o -A — Amendment to the protection regime in the event of invalidity and old age of beneficiaries of the general social security scheme, without prejudice to the need to submit the Medical Certificate of Multi-purpose Incapacity. The Social Democratic Party submits this proposal, which seeks to grant the right to social inclusion benefit (PSI), as soon as it is required and submits the evidence of the application for multi-use attestation. Currently, the right to the PSI begins with the presentation of the multi-use certificate, which, as we know, is taking months and may take a year. This delay penalizes people, but with this measure we introduce justice and ensure that the right to the PSI starts with proof that we have requested the medical board. So the Socialist Party is able to be on the people's side and approve of this proposal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u245	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us return to the amendment of Article 77 of the Act. o-B. Mr Rui Tavares wishes to speak, and there are several proposals for that purpose, but the Bureau does not know in particular what the proposal on which you intend to intervene. If you can clarify us, we thank you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u246	He doesn't even know!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u247	Mr President, it is on the proposal relating to family allowances, moreover, that I have already sent the entry to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u248	So please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u249	Mr President, we have two historical examples of combating inflation: that of the 1970s, of which Mr Prime Minister speaks a lot, in which inflation was combatted with recession ; that of the 1940s, which is a much more comparable example, because it is inflation in times of war on the European continent when the European States invented family allowances. Well, in this instrument, which already has several generations, it is part of the solution to help the most vulnerable families in Portugal. It proposes the creation of a special complement to family allowance, in line with what we have discussed here, in general with Mr Prime Minister, in order not to leave structural damage to the extraordinary measures intended for 2023. Of course, we think it is an essential measure for, at the negotiating stage — we have little time, but we still have time — we find a way to help the most vulnerable families in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-21.u250	The Bureau no longer registers. [[Pause.]] I would therefore point out that the next plenary session will be held tomorrow on 22 Tuesday at 10 a.m. We will begin our work with the discussion of the legal standards, with five minutes for the government, for each parliamentary group and also for the DURP (one-time party representatives). There will be a second moment, immediately, for the vote. I would like to draw the attention of the Members and the Members. Members of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Articles and Proposals for an amendment to the Rules of Procedure proposed for plenary. Then we will continue the discussion, in the specialty, of the Bill No 38 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2023. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the government, we finish our work. Thank you very much and until tomorrow. [[It was 12 hours and 55 minutes.]]
