ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We have a working quorum, representing all parliamentary groups, so I declare open to the session. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. First of all, for the reading of the dossier, I give the floor to the Secretary of Table Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late for everyone. I shall take account of the opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members that the replacement of Mr Gil Costa of the Socialist Party, elected by the electoral circle of Setúbal, by Antonio Hugo Lindo dos Santos Caracol, of the same electoral circle, from today on, including, is in due order, and may appear to be voted on, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u3	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. We shall then proceed to the vote on this opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as there is no more to read, I shall take account of the agenda for today's plenary meeting: at the first point we will have political statements; at the second point we will appreciate Petition No 199 / XIV / 2. the, on internal mobility contest, and the projects that were dragged with it; and at the third point we will appreciate Petition No 612 / XIII / 4. the, against the end of the current Yellow Line of the metro of Lisbon, and also the projects that were dragged with it. Therefore, in order to make a political statement on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative, Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: In the last 10 years, there have been three changes that have made the country very well and that have prevented it from, economically, sinking even further. The first was the growth of local accommodation, which was at the origin of the tourism boom and all the opportunities that arose from there. Tourism is one of the few relevant industries in which we compete with the best in the world and local housing has given a huge boost to this. The second change was the coming of more foreigners to our cities. They will come in search of good time, security and advantageous tax conditions. The coming of foreigners to the country made our cities more cosmopolitan and opened for the country opportunities that would not exist otherwise. The third change was the exceptional period of low interest rates, which may be ending, but which allowed many Portuguese to buy home with lower monthlyities than those they would otherwise have. All these changes were positive for the country, they were great opportunities for the country. All of them also brought an increase in the search for houses. And this would not have been reflected in prices if the construction of new houses had accompanied this increase in demand. But even though there are more people who want to buy home, despite the prices they have risen, the construction of new houses has dropped peaks in the last decade. In the last 10 years, only 130 000 houses have been built in Portugal, compared with 760 000 houses built in the previous 10 years. We're talking about over 600,000 homes that have stopped building in the last 10 years. These 600 000 houses that were not built would compensate for all those that were allocated to the local housing plus those that were sold to foreigners and would still have more than 400 000 houses. It is not hard to imagine what the real estate market would be today if more than 600 000 houses had been built, as in the previous decade. The houses would be much cheaper, the rents would be more affordable, the younger they could have left their parents' home and the housing park would be much less old than it is today.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u5	It was the country of wonders!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u6	It is true that the financial crisis explains part of this decline, but it does not explain everything, because in 2019, long after the financial crisis, we still had a third of new constructions compared to 10 years earlier. There are several factors that contribute to this. First, we have late licenses, which introduce uncertainty, distance investors and increase funding costs, which then reflect the final price of the houses.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u7	Oh, then no!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u8	One year's delay in a licence may add between € 5000 and €10 000 to the final price of a house of €200 000. It's 5000 € to 10 000 € that leave the people's pocket without any return, just to pay a bureaucratic delay. Second, we have a high tax in construction,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u9	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u10	... in particular non-deductible value added tax, additional to IMI (municipal property tax) and IMT (municipal property tax) on home purchase. All these taxes end up reflected in the final price of the houses. We also have a problem of lack of labour for construction, which would require a more flexible and effective immigration policy. Talking in housing without first talking about this is a recipe for disaster, it is a recipe for turning us in the wrong way. And there are many wrong ways we reject. We reject income controls. We reject income controls because this removes houses from the lease market and because bureaucratic income controls have a black history in Portugal, which has come since the time of the New State. We also reject income controls in the name of a value that is lost in this House: respect for private property. I know that private property is somewhat unpopular on the left, but the landlords already contribute to the social state through their taxes, just like all the other people. Force them, above the taxes they already pay, to make social policy with their heritage is an abuse and an attack on private property. [[Applause from the IL.]] We reject additional restrictions on local accommodation. It is not up to the central state to decide what anyone can do with their home or who accepts to receive, or not, their home. contrary to what they say, the local housing does not question the right to housing in the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u11	Don't! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u12	Local housing accounts for about 1 % of housing in Portugal. We have had years, in this country, where more houses were built than the total allocations to the local accommodation. We reject policies that seek to restrict or discourage the purchase of houses by foreign citizens. Today we are lucky to have more cosmopolitan cities, which are the brand of any developed country. Today, we have lisboetas that only speak French, Portuguese who only speak English and Bracarians who only speak Portuguese with a accent from Brazil. They're as lisboetas, portuguese and bracarians as all the others. [[Applause from the IL.]] Cities are always authentic because they have people from other countries or because they have more tourists. Cities are not museums of past realities, but the vanguard of a country of the future. They are so lisboets those people who, coming from Paris, chose Lisbon to live like those who, at other times, came from Ovar and are the origin of the tradition of the Varinas of Madragua. To think that people who respect our values should not have the right to live in our country just because they are foreign only have one name: xenophobia. [[Applause from the IL.]] We reject funding by the central housing state in the most expensive areas of the big cities. The right to housing is a human right embodied in our Constitution, but it is not a human right to live on New Avenues. Nobody has their human rights violated because they cannot rent a T2 in Chiado. In a country where the interior is increasingly deserted, it is even immoral to use everyone's money to finance the possibility of some living in the most expensive areas of big cities. If the State wants to put pressure on the real estate market in large cities, it has an easier way to do: decentralizing and dislocating its own services. It is not fair for the rest of the country to see the State centralizing its operations in capital and still subsidizing that centralisation. Paying twice for centralism, once in the lack of opportunities and another in the subsidisation of real estate, is an insult to the rest of the country. To finish, it is true that we have a price problem in housing, but we cannot and should not try to solve a problem with failed formulas, which create even greater problems. Many here are more concerned about restricting property rights than solving the housing problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u13	Mr President, your time has already been greatly exceeded.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u14	I'll be done, Mr. President. Just another 15 seconds. Only by dislocating state services outside the most sought-after areas, leaving more to build, agitating licensing processes and reducing the tax burden on construction will be able to solve this problem. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u15	Mr President, the Bureau records five requests for clarification following its political statement, to which it noted it will respond in two blocks. The first request for clarification will be made by Mr Hugo Costa of the PS Parliamentary Group. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, from a historical point of view, if there is a theme on which liberalism and the liberal view of society have failed in the housing. For over 100 years of public housing policies, a unique and exclusively liberal vision left the problem unsolved.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u18	This is the reality! I remember what is at stake: from a constitutional point of view, the right to housing is a basic right, above all others, and it is based on other rights, such as the right to employment, health or quality of life. The 1st. the law, policy of this government, aims to respond to this problem, but we must have the ability to respond to all and not only, as has happened for decades in Portugal, to those who are entitled to social housing. Mr President, let us talk about consistency with the liberal view of society. Liberal countries, as in the Netherlands, have 30 % of public housing, but the honourable Member has come to say that the problem is that we have too many public housing policies. What's the consistency, sir? Are those countries that have 30 % public housing, as in the Netherlands, wrong?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u19	It's true, well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u20	Portugal has 2 %, Mr! from a fiscal point of view, we have nothing against the tax benefits for private housing, but they cannot serve to increase inequalities — I repeat, cannot serve to increase inequalities! Is the honourable Member also against the EUR 3000 million that the Recovery and Resilience Plan ( PRR ) has to solve the problems of housing, in which it is the largest investment ever in public housing in Portugal? Or are you concerned only with local accommodation and housing for some? We are concerned about responding to the problem of housing for everyone, because it is everyone that we have to respond and not just some. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u21	The next request for clarification belongs to Mr Rui Tavares of the Free. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u22	Mr. President, Dear colleague Carlos Guimarães Pinto,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u23	He's expensive there!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u24	... I agree with you, we need more housing offer, but I didn't hear you talk about public housing. What does it tell us about the fact that Portugal has a much smaller percentage of public housing than that of other countries in the European Union, such as Germany, with 10 % of public housing? Or what does it tell us that in the Netherlands, for example, 75 % of rental houses are held by non-profit associations and cooperatives?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u25	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u26	A good, direct question: why didn't you propose this to the rostrum?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u27	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u28	And why does the Liberal Initiative often come to say—and rightly so! — that, in order to buy a home today, a young person must have a 10 % entry, which he does not have, he must have good creditors, that most of the time he does not have,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u29	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u30	...you would have to have family money, that most of the time you don't have, and finally, after you've passed these barriers all, you say that what you're going to do is you're going to put down the IMT? That is, in a marathon of 42 km to 42. When the young man does not get there, they offer him a glass of water. The question is this: why did they not then follow the Free proposal to create a public fund that participates in the entrance to the house and that is then reimbursed by the buyer? Thus, it benefits from this public fund and helps to buy a house, fulfilling a basic principle in this country: that buying a house in Portugal is not only for the rich, that the middle class, the lower middle class and young people also have the right to buy a house. Why did they vote against?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u32	For a third request for clarification, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank the Liberal Initiative for bringing this issue to debate, which is a rather complex issue. When we talk about housing, we cannot talk only about local housing or what private interests may be. In fact, it is the result of its intervention that there is almost a diabolization in the de facto intervention of the State, particularly in access to housing. So I begin by asking, Mr Member, the following: when we talk about young people, what will the Liberal Initiative offer to a young person who often has a precarious stage, who does not even receive to train, even if this period is compulsory, for example, by virtue of his professional order, or to a mother who does not even earn the minimum order and who has to pay a household income in order at least of the 600 €? Or what does it offer if this mother wants to buy home, when a T0 or a T1 in Lisbon does not cost less than €220 000?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u34	Send them to live inside!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u35	We do not all have the same starting point, Mr President. When we look at the problem of housing and see reports like the one that happened yesterday on television—which give us notice of people in a situation of extreme vulnerability, in extreme poverty, such as people in a homeless situation, or women victims of domestic violence—what is the role of the State if there is not, in fact, a public park to give an effective response to these people? But we can't stay around here and the NAP doesn't diabolise the private initiative. We have to have tourist cargo studies to ensure that cities are not hostage to gentrification, nor to tourism, because, indeed, it is having a very negative impact on the prices that occur, but we cannot have the opposite. That is, there is a place and a role for the State that are fundamental if we want to guarantee the first right. That is why, in fact, they often speak in the diabolization of the left in the face of the private initiative and the landlords, but what I ask is the opposite.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u36	Mrs. Deputy has to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u37	I really am concluding, Mr President. Indeed, we are not all at the same point of departure and we must have a public response to these offers, which are absolutely essential offers.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u38	In reply, Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u39	Mr President, I think I can reply together to the honourable Members. Mr Hugo Costa and Rui Tavares, because they both spoke on the issue of public policies for housing. There is here a question that is mathematical before being ideological, which is the following: for more people to have access to the right to housing, there must be more houses. If there are no more houses, all you can do is take in the current housing park and redistribute it, and that gives no one any longer the right to housing! Get on one side to get on the other. That is why I called attention to a mathematical issue: there is a public policy that has to be made of incentive to the offer, because only increasing the offer of housing will there be more houses for everyone, including for all those segments that they talked about here. Then they talked about the Dutch case. I know that this bench doesn't like much when I recommend literature on the issues under discussion because it hurts your head, so I won't do that. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u40	There's the literature!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u41	If you don't like literature, watch the videos, which can sometimes be useful. Then, if you want to talk about the Dutch system, if you understand it and want to talk about it, in particular, we can talk about it. If you want, ask Mr Rui Tavares, that he seems to understand a little better how the Dutch system works; what it means to have 30% public park in Holland. [[PS protests.]] Take it easy! Calm down! With regard to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, the Liberals, historically, have always defended a net safety. in this safety net, for people who need it, is obviously included the right to housing. So it is not worthwhile to come here to talk about extreme situations of need, because there we do not disagree. What we disagree about is that the first policy to guarantee the right to housing for more people in this country has to go through an increase in supply, which is the problem that is at the root of current prices and is not another! We have produced less than 600,000 houses in the last 10 years! Do you have any idea what the current real estate market would be if we had more than 600 000 new houses? All — young and old — would all have cheaper houses, more affordable incomes, a greater possibility of access to housing. This should be our first concern: to combat all the obstacles that exist at the offer and, yes, to respond to the most serious cases, which were those mentioned here. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u42	For a request for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Marcia Passos, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u43	Mr President, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, first of all, very grateful for the issue that brought us, a central issue which is also always the subject of concern of the Social Democratic Party. We can say, Mr President, that we agree with you when you say, for example, that housing problems in Portugal are not solved at the expense of private property, when you say that you reject income controls and when you say that there is a lack of respect for private property. We agree with this, Mr President. But we do not agree with a housing market that is a wild market. With this, we do not agree, because the right to housing, as you well know, is a constitutional right, which means access to a decent housing for each Portuguese and this access must be ensured by the Portuguese State and not by private property. So I want to tell you, Mr, that what is required of the State is that you have a strategy for housing in Portugal, that you have a set of public policies that meet the needs of Portuguese people. And I want to tell you that for more than six years, the Socialist Party has been in power and has not yet been able to present to the country a strategy for housing in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]] I therefore ask the honourable Member to agree with this view and with the regulation of public housing policy in a balanced way. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u44	For a request for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u45	Mr President, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, do you know what I think? It seems to me that the Liberals are entwined. It's just that no sector has been so liberalized. Tourism, local accommodation, rents, the entire housing market is an open field for speculation, it is an open field in the liberalized market, and in no other sector ran so badly. And now the honourable Member has come to tell the country that the problem of the housing crisis is the IMT and are the building licenses, it is the state! It is the most liberalized sector this country has ever seen, it is the liberal dream and it went wrong, there is a crisis, and the honourable Member says: « After all it is the state. Do not keep on seeking. ” It seems to me, Mr President, very sincerely, that the Liberal Initiative is under way, because the young people who voted on the Liberal Initiative and want the opportunity to live in Lisbon — the cosmopolitan, modern, open city — cannot and the only answer that Mr has to give them is: "They will live for Beja! That's where you belong, inside. Living in the city center is not for you. Living in the city center is for rich foreigners. Living in the city center is for whom you can! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[CH and IL protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u46	What's the matter with Beja? Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u47	So, honourable Member, tell me, please, what world you live in and who you defend. I do not know if you know that what you have defended from that rostrum is a caste society in which the rich live in the center of the city and the poor live on the outskirts. It's the 19th century social elevator! The social elevator of the 19th century is the great marvelous proposal of the future, a world of opportunities that the Liberal Initiative has to offer to our country and to the young people who voted in themselves, and that is why I think they are incarcerated. Mr President, the Netherlands — a country which the Liberal Initiative so advocates — has limited shops for tourists in the city centre, banned local accommodation in the city centre and is approving a new law that prevents the sale of buildings to anyone who does not live in those buildings. The haven of the Liberal Initiative has far more successful policies for housing than Portugal. Look at that, sir! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u48	It is appropriate to say: why did you go into this? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u49	To reply, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u50	Mr President, Mrs Marcia Passos, I always have this problem with the PSD. You ask: "Do you agree with this or not? » This is very generic. Let's believe it! They believe exactly that your social policy for housing differs from that of the PS. It helps us to understand this, to understand what's different from the PS. If it doesn't differ in anything, let's disagree; if it's different in something, maybe we can talk about it. With regard to Mrs Mariana Mortágua, I said here two things that had a great joke. The first joke is that the housing market is liberalized.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u51	Isn't he? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u52	And you're not? What do you want more?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u53	Try building a house in this country. See how many years it takes, how many years it takes to graduate, how many years it takes to build...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u54	Legalize the pool...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u55	Then I said something else that is so funny, that it was to blame the local accommodation for the increase in house prices.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u56	Amsterdam has already done it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u57	This is very typical of those who think that the country is 10 km2, because the local accommodation corresponds to 1 % of the country’s housing stock — 1 %, no more than that! It is true that there are two parishes in Lisbon which correspond to 5 km2 and where the local accommodation is more than 20 %; there is a parish in Porto which are 5 km2, which correspond to more than 10 % of local accommodation. We're talking about 10 km2 in a country with 92 000 km2. Your head is 10 km2 from this country — less than 0, 01 % of your area. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] Let me tell you that one important thing must not be forgotten: local accommodation is 1% of the country's housing park. But do you know what is reflected in housing prices? It is those taxes that you have to pay while you are waiting for the license to be accepted, including the Mortagua tax, which greatly contributes to the increase in house prices. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[BE's laughs.]] Therefore, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, who comes here to defend young people, must explain to them that, alone, she must have contributed more to the increase in housing prices than all local housing entrepreneurs together, Mrs Deputy! [[Applause from the IL.]] [[BE's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u58	I didn't know you liars. It's hard, isn't it? They are young with half a million euros!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u59	As soon as conditions exist, Mr John Dias of the Portuguese Communist Party has the floor for a political declaration.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The National Health Service ( SNS) is faced with problems that are not conjuncural. They are, yes, structural difficulties to which the Government chooses not to respond and in many cases even to make it worse. The current situation of the SNS is difficult, it results from the great devaluation of all health professionals and this was one of the main reasons why the CFP voted against the State budget for 2022, whether it was in November or May. The PS has an approved Budget, but it does not contain the solutions to save the SNS. For the PCP, it is necessary to create conditions so that no more SNS physicians and nurses will leave, it is necessary to make a way to hire them for the specialties in which they are needed and to ensure medical and family nurse for all Portuguese. Measures are needed to enhance careers and attractive wages, for a real perspective of career progression, for times that are compatible with the rest of health professionals. It is necessary to hire superior health, diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, health assistants and administrative technicians. All contracts must be made with a permanent and integrated link in the Public Administration frameworks, rejecting the general precariousness. The PCP has been proposing solutions to hire and fix health professionals in the SNS. This is an example of the exclusive dedication for doctors and nurses with an optional character, corresponding to an increase in their basic remuneration and a bonus in the counting of time for career progression. We propose the extension of incentives for the establishment of professionals in areas and areas deprived of care — today we have scheduled the discussion of a proposal in the Assembly of the Republic — as well as the counting of all the points for the purpose of career progression that in recent years have been completely erased by this government. It is necessary to ensure adequate facilities, thus implementing an investment plan for the modernisation of infrastructure, with the construction of many units waiting for years — we speak of health centres, new hospitals — as is urgent to provide the SNS with adequate equipment in hospitals, but also in health centers, including means of diagnosis, such as analyses, X-ray, TAC(computerized tomography), magnetic resonance imaging, among many others indispensable to reduce and eliminate the waiting list in surgeries, examinations, consultations or treatments. Mrs. Members, the strategy of those who do everything to discredit the SNS is clear and sits in a vicious circle, in which the lack of response of the SNS creates space to justify more private contracts, which leads to the loss of resources at all levels, which are removed from the SNS, preventing, on the one hand, the improvement of public response and, on the other, further degradation of its capacity. What the CFP has reported — and for a long time has done so — is that the large economic groups of health live at the expense of the SNS, either due to the lack of timely service in public services, either by direct funding from State resources, in the case of direct transfers from SNS to privates, of course, which currently account for almost 50 % of the health budget or of the financing resulting from other public subsystems, such as ADSE ( Public Institute of Participated Management ) or other subsystems, the Armed Forces and Security Forces. That is, the profit of private groups is based on the degradation of the SNS, which leads to public financial resources being diverted in an increasing way to the private sector. If the SNS is faced with many difficulties today, it is not due to the lack of the PCP to alert and point out solutions, which the right parties have refused and that the PS is complicit and responsible for refusing the path to save the SNS. It is because of this government subsidy policy that today the public record pays hundreds of millions of euros to buy exams to the private, which could be done more economically in hospitals or health centres themselves. It is also because of this policy, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, hospital beds are missing. While in the last 20 years public hospitals have reduced more than 4000 hospital beds, the private took advantage of this closure and created more than 3000 new boarding beds in the same period. This is a clear strategy for the appropriation of public resources, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. For the PCP, the SNS, in addition to being the solution to ensure the right to health for all, is also the cheapest. It is clear that the option of reducing the capacity of public health services and buying more from the private sector inevitably corresponds to higher costs, if we really want to cover the whole population. For the PCP, it is absolutely essential to increase the response capacity of the SNS, whether in primary health care, either at the hospital level, and for this more financial, human and equipment means are needed. SNS is, in fact, the best tool to ensure the right to health of the entire population, a right that does not comply with 1, 3 million users without a family doctor. With heavy responsibilities of successive PS and PSD/CDS governments to demonstrate - it is the dispatch of the absentee vacancies that authorizes the recruitment of only 62 family doctors, when the identified needs are more than 830 doctors. The right to health is not met when, in Setúbal, 22 specialists of gynecology / obstetrics and are 10. In San Francisco Xavier there are 14 doctors who are supposed to be 22, in the Guard there should be 10 doctors and there are 8, in Leiria there should be 24 doctors and there are 18 and the solution found by these institutions, in the face of such shortage, is the use of the hiring of external doctors, hired by service providers, or, then, resorting insistently to extraordinary hours or to the work overload of health professionals. This overload, due to the emergency service scales, especially in the deprived hospitals, leaves little time off for other tasks, such as consultation, the operating block or exams. Finally, Mr President, the National Health Service has a key role to play in improving health indicators. From the reduction of infant mortality to the increase in average life expectancy, from the generalization of vaccination to access to essential medicines, it was, and is, the SNS the essential instrument to ensure access to health for the whole population. Who says the opposite mind deliberately and who agrees, but then does not defend it from the attacks that it has been targeting, since its creation, is complicit in the reactionary strategy of right to destroy and hand over to the private the disease business. Saving the National Health Service is urgent, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! You can count on the PCP for that battle. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u61	Mr President, the Bureau records four entries for requests for clarification. Since he intends to respond in blocks of two, the first request for clarification lies with Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto of the Liberal Initiative. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u62	Mr. President, it is always funny when the PCP comes to talk about health degradation when it was a party that voted six State budgets. In fact, they have voted more State budget than the PSD in the last 10 years, so they are more responsible for the current state of health than any other of the parties here.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u63	The rectifiers also count! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u64	Remembering that they have participated and supported a PS government, having signed an agreement with the PS, there is one issue that is not related to this, it is important for us to clarify the Portuguese and the PS itself, for the future : in recent weeks, if there were any doubts, the position of the CFP vis-à-vis the invasion of Ukraine was much clearer. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u65	We had a former PCP deputy who even celebrated Russian military victories. We all realize that the defence of peace made by the PCP is a euphemism to defend Ukraine's submission to Russian autocracy, but it was important to see whether this PCP loyalty to Russia would be consistent in any case.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u66	Be serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u67	So I ask you: if the attacker in this story was not Ukraine, but Portugal, would they continue to have the same speech? Having defended the surrender and surrender of the territory of Ukraine, what Portuguese territory would they give to achieve peace? Alentejo? The islands? Tell me what territory they'd give up.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u68	Don't be provocative!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u69	If, instead of the streets of Mariupol, were the streets of the port being bombed day and night, would they continue with the same speech? If the city covered with corpses were not Bucha, but was it Sixal, Amadora or Beja, would they continue with the same speech? If they were Portuguese women serving as trophies of war and our child victims sideways, would they continue with the same speech?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u70	Don't you have anything to say about health?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u71	Mr. Member, tell the Portuguese, tell the PS very clearly if one day the Russian threat hits us at the door, on which side it will fight the CFP. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u72	What does this have to do with health? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u73	To request clarification, Mr Filipe Melo, from the Czech Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the question I have for Mr João Dias is on this subject and I am not going to put up with others. I remind Mr. João Dias that for six years I did not hear him attack the rostrum, neither the SNS nor the socialist government, on the contrary, took him and led him to the lap. [[Congrats from the CH.]] But let me tell you, Mr. Member, that your little lady begins to be spent, used and obsolete and the proof of this is that you have been reduced to one third, because the Portuguese do not forget what they said in 2019 about the hospital in Braga and that I will quote: « The new PPP (public-private partnership) for the private hospital in Braga is a worrying sign for the SNS. Do not keep on seeking. ” More: they also said in January 2019, and I quote that « the PCP defends that the final recovery by the State of public management of the private hospital in Braga is required ».
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u75	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u76	Mr João Dias, I must tell you — you certainly do not know, but you should know as a health professional — that the hospital in Braga was at the top 3 of the European hospitals while it was PPP; now that you have moved to the SNS is the shame you see. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Now, Mr. João Dias, I ask you what justification will give about 850 000 Bracarians — the Braga district has about 850,000 inhabitants — when they are told that the central hospital in the district has no obstetric urgency and that the ladies will have to have their children elsewhere because the CFP defended the extinction of a public-private partnership that worked in perfection. Answer, now, with character! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u77	In response to these two requests for clarification, Mr João Dias of the CFP has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the questions put to me by either Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto or Mr Filipe Melo. Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, your question would not be answered, because the provocative tone with which you referred to the CFP reveals the total contempt that Mr. Guimarães is having for the people who need assistance and are not.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u79	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u80	When he was to be here discussing the emergencies of several hospitals in this country that have been closed for lack of investment and, above all, because this investment has been transferred to the private, he comes here with conversations, wanting to distract from what is a policy that you defend, from absolute degradation of the National Health Service. [[PCP applause.]] Therefore, you do not deserve an answer with regard to Ukraine,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u81	You're a challenger!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u82	... but I also tell you, Mr, because we defend the truth above all, that we are not like you, we tell the truth to the people. We prefer to lose votes by telling the people the truth rather than winning votes by lying to the people, as you do, and what we have to say is that we will never be next to Nazi-fascist regimes, as you do. You can count on the CFP to defend peace and the Portuguese people are just as much as the CFP, i.e., is next to the peace. [[PCP applause.]] [[IL protests.]] You are a challenger, but I would like to say more: Mr President, you should be concerned about cancer users who have no answer, but you should be concerned about 1 3 million people who do not have a family doctor. But what is your concern? It is to come to provoke the PCP, because the PCP has a history of defense intervention of the National Health Service for which you don't even reach the heels! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u83	He didn't answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u84	Mr Filipe Melo, allow me to clarify it very quickly, because you have made a deduction that I was not informed, but I am very well informed about the PPP of Braga. Won't you be the lack of information when the PPP of Braga transferred to the Hospital of St. John the patients who didn't want to attend because they weren't in the contract or because they were much more expensive? [[PCP applause.]] Don't you remember that? Then know this is the result of PPPs...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u85	Exactly! You don't remember!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u86	... and what we have to say is that PPPs do not serve to meet the requirements that are put to the National Health Service. Therefore, what is clear is that PPPs did not treat users who had the responsibility to attend. Is that the answer you want? It is that, if you want an answer for all Portuguese, you have to have a National Public Health Service; if you want to answer only for some, then it is the private you defend. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u87	He's wrong! That's false, completely false! It's proven you don't know what you're talking about!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u88	The assumption of making a request for clarification is to hear the answer; otherwise, it is not worth making the request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u89	They want to know!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u90	Mr Guilherme Almeida, from the PSD, has the floor to request clarifications. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr João Dias, the Communist Party has decided to make an intervention on the dire state in which the National Health Service is located. This is an important and timely issue, because reality reveals to us a SNS immersed in chaos, with hospitals in stress and emergencies in rupture. Braga, Loures, Santarém, Amadora-Sintra, Garcia de Orta, Barreiro-Montijo, São Francisco Xavier, Caldas da Rainha, Leiria, are just some of the hospitals that have had their emergency obstetric services closed, with serious damage to the life and health of pregnant women as well as their confidence in the SNS. This in a context where maternal mortality has reached the highest value of the last 38 years: more than 20 deaths per 100,000 births. But this is one more of the marks of failed governance of the Socialist Party, in which the CFP was involved. Therefore, it has no legitimacy to denounce, now, the degradation of the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u92	But you don't have one either!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u93	For several years, they have compacted with the lack of planning and investment of the Socialist Party in the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u94	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u95	However, several State budgets have been made available since 2015. The Communist Party is an accomplice to the current degradation of the National Health Service! Having said this, I ask you the following: it is known that in recent years, the number of specialists coming out of the SNS has been increasing, especially the most differentiated and the most qualified. It happens that the PCP has come to propose, in its Bill No. 30 / XV / 1. a, that the exclusive dedication scheme applies « compulsoryly to professionals who carry out management functions » in SNS establishments. This means, for example, that no director of a public hospital department will ever be able to perform functions in a private hospital. What I ask the Communist Party is very simple: have you talked to some department director of a public hospital before presenting this initiative in order to understand the impact it has on the public service?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u96	Yeah, we don't know any! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u97	Would this proposal not lead to the exit of the best health professionals to the private sector? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u98	For the last request for clarification to Mr João Dias, Mrs Susana Correia, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the National Health Service is experiencing a period of great difficulties and great challenges, but we must not abdicate, and not abdicate, its social function and the fight against inequalities. Many questions could be asked, Mr President. Do we win the pandemic? Did we organize the vaccination process? Are we, or are we not, recovering the care activity? Has autonomy been given to the institutions to hire? Was there an improvement in access? [[Don't!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u100	Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen. On the pandemic, the National Health Service is recognized for its capacity to reorganize its structures and the way it organized them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The vaccination process was, and is exemplary, and there is a plan to continue to ensure to Portuguese the prevention and preparation of the health they need. The care activity is being recovered. currently there are numbers that prove the existence of institutions that have already exceeded the activity of 2019. Regarding improving access, I ask: isn't it improving access when we strengthen mental health care? Oh, my God! Is it not to improve access to oral health? Isn't it improving access to home hospitalization? Is it not to improve access to the elimination of moderate rates, when in this House it was said that, because of them, patients had no money to buy medicines? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr, my question is this : we know that we have strengthened the number of health professionals, which are more than 32 000 compared to 2015. Given the health professionals we can hire the most, and knowing that they will not all have the conditions to make emergency scales, what is the proposal for the reorganization of work in emergency services? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u101	To reply, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u102	Mr President, Mr Guilherme Almeida, PSD, and Mrs Susana Correia, PS, thank you for the questions before us. Mr Guilherme Almeida, I would like to ask you to look into the CFP proposals and get to know them well before you talk about them, so as not to come and say what the CFP does not propose. It is clear that we were not talking to the service directors of the Mello Group!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u103	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u104	But we talked to others and we knew the National Health Service very well. Perhaps you have spoken only to these service directors and therefore have a completely different perspective than the one proposed by the CFP. [[PCP applause.]] But, in any case, I would like to say to you, Mr Commissioner — and already on the other day I told you about the PSD — that, in the light of the holofote, you believe that you are defending the National Health Service, but behind that light, you support the transfer of public resources to the private sector. It is clear your choice, but on the other hand, we believe that this is not the one that best serves the country and the Portuguese. Of course, we understand what the PSD posture has been, and, above all, the PS, when speaking in the National Health Service tends to be free of charge. For let me tell you, Mr Member : the National Health Service is tendingly paid, because the health market in Portugal represents more than EUR 20 billion per year in public expenditure, in public consumption, and that is where you are interested in promoting it, as well as the Liberal Initiative. Therefore, we also tell the PS that this is responsible for the path that is being followed and traced to the National Health Service, when they could take measures such as exclusivity. Who works in the National Health Service in exclusivity—not in full dedication! — must be paid for this. What the PS proposes is that they work fully for the National Health Service and, "if they work longer hours, we pay them more". Podera! If you work longer hours, you'd at least have to get a little more, wouldn't you, Mrs. Member? But I would like to make it clear, in view of the position that has been adopted, that the answer needed to be given in this situation of obstetric emergencies. What we have is a contingency plan. Question: But what contingency plan is this? Oh, my God! We know nothing concrete about the contingency plan! Are you with the interns? Are you going to pick them up and fix them in the National Health Service when they are already counting on quality delivery today? It is that the interns are already cheap labor force for the National Health Service and the government does not solve the problems of these professionals. We are naturally concerned about the departure of professionals. She is well aware that there is enormous bleeding due to the policies that have been followed, including the flight to the private sector, but also the exit of health professionals abroad. It is that in many institutions and units, not to reverse this path, not to save the National Health Service, is to run the risk of entering a point of non-return, of inability to respond to the needs of the population. And what we have to put on the table is what the PS will do with the absolute majority it has. It is that when the CFP gave them political conditions to be able to adopt the necessary measures, they were not available. Now that you have the absolute majority, what are you going to do with her, Mrs. Member? Are they going to do the right-wing policy or are they going to solve the chronic problems of the National Health Service? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u105	For a political statement on behalf of the Left Block, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government has left the country on a permanent standstill. Chaos in hospitals, in the emergency of obstetrics from north to south of the country; chaos at the airport, where the country's visit card is delivered with hours and hours of waiting and without conditions and without caution; problems in schools, with thousands of students without teachers and with promises that in the future it will be even worse; delays in justice, where judges and judicial officers are missing and where the rule of law and access to justice show ever more obvious gaps. And to every problem, to every complication, to every crisis, what the government has to announce is more a handful of nothing, any contingency plan, step-by-step measures for structural problems. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a contingencies government. He does not govern, he remedies; he does not prevent, he runs after damage; he does not beware, he leaves essential functions of the State, such as health, education, security or justice, luck and chance. This is a government in which contingency has become a way of life. Let us take a closer look at the drama in the health sector. In recent days, the country has seen the emergency services of closed doors, especially in obstetrics. This is not the first time that such a situation has happened. That has now been recognized by the Minister of Health. “It’s not a problem today,” she said. But then, if you already knew, why did it happen? The Minister of Health even succeeds in diagnosing, but fails to treat: if she acknowledges that the problem is not today, revealing with skill the consequences of the successive refusals of her own government, she does not present a single solution to the problem of hospital emergencies and continues without taking on a single commitment to the establishment of professionals and the autonomy of hiring hospitals. Faced with emergency problems, and not before they happened, the Minister closed off one whole day at meetings with the sector. And what do you have to introduce us? A new contingency plan. There are three ideas so vague or so beaten that they are not really proposed. Let's see: has the Minister announced a competition for the hiring of new specialists? It is the same regular invitation to tender, which was already planned, which is carried out every year and which is more vacant every year than to be completed. And why? Because the SNS is not attractive to the doctors that he himself forms. The numbers do not cheat: in 2021, by this time, 1041 vacancies were opened for hospital specialties and only 674 were occupied, i.e. 35 % of the vacancies remained to be filled. Did the Minister defend an articulated network response to the emergencies? But is that a proposal, a resignation or a threat? It seems like an euphemism for the rotating closure of emergencies! After all, the goal is not to hire anymore, it is to close better, and this is not acceptable. It's about specific people we talk about! A pregnant woman who is accompanied in a hospital does not know whether she will have the same hospital during all pregnancy and childbirth, and this is a permanent insecurity with which we cannot deal. Has the Minister mentioned the need to ensure better pay conditions? The problem is, he doesn't even say how! Is it going to require even more extraordinary hours who already beats all the record of extraordinary hours? It is that only in 2021, there were 22 million extra hours in the SNS. We need more doctors, more professionals, we don't need more burnouts or extraordinary hours. There are three empty ideas, three recognitions of the failure that is being governed by this government and three excuses that do not explain nor why the government does not do what should be done, nor why it has not yet submitted measures in the State budget to solve these problems. I know what the government will say, I know what the PS will say. For example, there are no obstetricians in the country. But nothing more false! Of course there are obstetricians. The problem is that half of them are in private and not in SNS. Why? Because the SNS doesn't guarantee them the conditions they need. What is needed to attract more professionals to the SNS? It's fixed at the SNS! But reality shows that the government does not know and does not want to do so. According to the Transparency Portal, between February and May of this year, the SNS lost 364 specialists and 1109 health professionals — repeat, 1109! - Not total. And this is just the most visible part of the problem. It's not the Block that says it, it's not just us, just listen to doctors, nurses, health professionals or unions. The government and the PS should hear the former Minister of Health Ana Jorge, who explained, days ago, that « they are not hired doctors, but at the same time, we are making payments to employers through temporary work companies, which is the most expensive » ; they should hear, for example, the administrator of the Hospital of São João, former Secretary of State of the PS, Fernando Araújo, who says that it is the government that is pushing health professionals out of the SNS, because he tells them that this is how they will receive more money. This is the case: the government refuses the exclusivity of doctors and the autonomy of hospitals, while spending more money covering the day-to-day holes. Do you remember when the government said the Left Block was intransigent? Yeah, that's what we were talking about. Even now the government has taken office, still now the State budget has been approved and it is clear what we were saying: the option to cross arms in the face of problems only aggravates the structural problems of the SNS. What we need is what the government is not willing to do: an urgent investment shock in the SNS ; to ensure the autonomy of hospital contracts to the places of the framework that are to be filled ; and to offer, to those who are in the SNS and to those who want to return, conditions of exclusive dedication to the public service, with remuneration incentives of 40 %. The government left the SNS sick, left the country on fire, but we, in the Left Block, are here to save him. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[IL rice and PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u107	It was the humorous part of the political declaration!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u108	The Bureau shall record five entries for the formulation of requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond, Mr. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u109	to the first set of three and then to the rest.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u110	Mr Rui Rocha, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I agree with the diagnosis made by Mr Pedro Filipe Soares with regard to the inability of the PS and the Government to solve the obvious and serious problems that are being accumulated in various areas of our society — in education, in justice and also in health — with the seriousness we all know. The PS and the government, of course, range from contingency plan to final emergency. The PS clearly didn't know what he was doing. A plan presupposes the organization of means and actions with a certain objective and what the Minister of Health presented was not a plan, because she has nothing of this present. Contingency presupposes that there is an unforeseeable situation, but all that is happening was absolutely predictable.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u112	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u113	Mr President, you need to have a lot of memory to come to say that the Left Block has the solution to the country's problems, especially for health, knowing that the Left Block is responsible for the state to which the country has arrived, also in the area of health. The Left Block did not rest—with the PCP and then with the PS consent—while it did not end with what worked in the national health system, such as public-private partnerships. They didn't rest until they ended the public-private partnerships! [[Applause from the IL.]] You are in Braga, in many other cities and in many other regions where, as recognised by the Court of Auditors, public-private partnerships provided an appropriate service to the populations. Today, this service is degraded and the satisfaction of health professionals who provide services in these units is in decline. in the same way, you did not rest until you ended the association contracts in education. Therefore, Mr. Deputies, do not take responsibility for the state to which the country has only arrived at the PS bench. You are as responsible as the PS because you did not rest until you brought into question solutions that worked in favour of the country. [[Applause from the IL.]] Now, I ask you: what do you have to say to school students with association contracts, in Braga and in the other regions of the country where partnerships worked? What will you tell these people, who have seen their lives get worse because of your political decisions and your ideological blindness? [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u114	The next request for clarification lies with Mr João Dias of the CFP. Please, Dr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, I would like to begin this issue with a very important aspect which seems essential to us to make clear. We witnessed the rhetoric of the right-wing policy discourse, which consists of saying that the National Health Service is absolutely degraded. That's fake! [[IL and CH protests.]] The National Health Service was the one who best served the Portuguese, it was the one who showed and proved its ability to respond, not only when it was placed before the demands of the pandemic, but whenever it was placed before the demands of the population when the health situations needed to respond. [[IL and CH protests.]] That speech aims, above all, to create the idea that this service does not serve, but it is the best serves and is the cheapest. in this sense, I want to begin by asking you the following: does not understand the Left Block that, above all, who decides health policies for our country is not the Minister of Health, but the Ministry of Finance? In fact, what guides health policies are savings options, particularly in health spending, when investment in the National Health Service is needed to prevent increased costs. Today, the National Health Service is a public money rotation table, which goes directly to the private pocket, and this is what needs to be reversed. Mr President, we are aware of the current situation of emergencies and of the care of pregnant women.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u116	And the children!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u117	Many of these services close, not because of lack of obstetricians, but because of lack of pediatricians. Having no pediatricians, a gynecology and obstetrics service cannot work because of the care of children born of more complicated births. in this sense, a response is needed that gives conditions in terms of the allocation of sufficient health professionals. Emergency services have been progressively degraded and the lack of professionals is one of the causes of the degradation of these services, which do not have their own teams. They are professionals hired to the part, to the task, who will perform these functions there.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u118	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u119	In conclusion, Mr President, the fundamental response goes through primary health care. Investment in primary health care is essential to prevent, even, the need for emergency care. Now, honourable Member, when we see the lack of open doors in primary health care, where else can the population go? People go to emergency services, when they could often be cared for in primary care without the need for emergency care, thus allowing urgent cases to be properly cared for. This is a concern which the CFP also places on it. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u120	The solution is euthanasia!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u121	To request clarification, Mr. Paulo Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u122	Mr President, Mr Deputy, as you well know, since you have been involved in this process over the past few years, the Socialist Party has been taking a path to strengthening the SNS in the different budgets approved in this House since 2015. We can discuss the speed, intensity, efficiency and effectiveness of this reinforcement, but we cannot say at any time that there was no reinforcement. We can discuss everything, but we cannot say at any time that there has not been a coherent path since 2015. This path has been the strengthening of the SNS. I want to show this House two official maps.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u123	Maps and maps!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u124	With this, I'm not talking about numbers, but about the capacity of action of the SNS, the care provided to users and the number of professionals. The first map has to do with budget allocation and there is a barrier that separates 2015 from all other years. The speaker presented the document he referred to. The second map has to do with health professionals and, once again, there is a barrier that separates 2015 from the rest of the years. The speaker presented the second document he referred to. [[Protests by Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]] This is an absolutely irreversible fact. This path, which has been going on since 2015, has had positive reflections, for example: when we increase the values allocated to the SNS, at the head of State Budget ; when we substantially increase the number of SNS professionals ; when we introduce and increase the number of innovative medicines in the SNS ; when we extend the number of family health units of type B ; when we pass a new law of bases, such as that approved in this House, in the previous Legislation, and which is being developed—and one of the issues VV. Ex.s well know that it is being developed has to do with full dedication, among other indicators. We cannot, we must and do not want to stop asking ourselves: is everything all right? The answer is inevitably « no, it is not». Can we do more? The answer is necessarily « yes». Have we implemented all the measures we are recommending to improve the system? Of course not, we are implementing them, but our commitment is to continue to work to implement the measures we believe are necessary to improve the SNS. In view of this, in the face of the doubts that I have recently heard those responsible for the Left Block put on the path that is necessary to follow, I would like to ask the honourable Member about the level of commitment that the Left Block has and wants to have in the development and strengthening of the SNS. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u125	To reply, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u126	Mr President, I would like to begin by answering the questions Mr. Paulo Marques raised. I believe that they are serious and that they deserve a reflection, which is strange that the PS and the government do not do. Do we have more professionals at the SNS? We have. In part, because of the Left Block proposals. Do we have more investment in the SNS? We have. In part, by the proposals of the Left Block. So why, with more professionals and more investment, do we now have a SNS worse than before the proposals that the Left Block has made?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u127	We have more than half a million enrolled in the SNS!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u128	It was the PS who refused to hire more specialists for general and family medicine and, therefore, we have more people without a family doctor. It was the PS that refused to have greater capacity to hire specialists and, therefore, we have more and more desert competitions because the vacancies did not open for their training. It was the PS that opened the door to what the Liberal Initiative wants, which is curious: the closer we get to what the Liberal Initiative wants, the worse the National Health Service remains. Interestingly, Mr Rui Rocha said: 'What we need is more private, more participations, more health checks'.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u129	We need more solutions!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u130	Now, never like today, and thank the PS, Mr. Member, for having agreed to receive money from the SNS. Never as today has SNS paid as much to private and therefore never as today has SNS been so close to what the Liberal Initiative dreams of. Thank the Socialist Party!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u131	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u132	Never as today has health been so at stake in its universality and also in its quality. Therefore, Mr John Dias, it is true that, every time we move away from the backbone of public health, universal and free, as it should be, but with quality assurances, as it must be, we give the flag to the right. The PSD applauds, the Liberal Initiative applauds, and the PS thinks it does a lot to give them the ideological victory. Now, we do not accept this poor healthism in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u133	Because of you! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u134	The Liberal Initiative tells us: "The problem was the four PPPs that the Left Block closed. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr President, I would like to have this in my resume, but unfortunately I do not have and explain why: it was the privates of three of them who did not want to continue. I say more to you, it is strange how Mr President, who is so devoted to the management and holistic vision of the organizations, who knows that there are more than 200 hospitals in Portugal, thinks that the problem is the three — I repeat, three! — they are no longer managed by PPP and are now managed by SNS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u135	There were three that worked well!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u136	You know as well as I do — and I will use terms I understand — that the KPI (key performance indicator) of a PPP is partly the profit and, secondly, its economic advantage.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u137	And yet it worked better!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u138	Now, a public hospital is to ensure that no one stays at the door, so that what happened in Braga does not happen, in which people were diverted to the port, or how it happened as well... [[Protests by Mr Rui Rocha.]] You may not know, but in Braga they also closed the emergency obstetrics while PPPs. Therefore, there are structural problems in the SNS that can only be solved with serious public policies, but there is a specific problem in the private sector, which is as follows: they only see profit, they only want easier work, they don't want to know about the universality of care and they don't guarantee a quality of health treatment for everyone.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u139	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u140	I shall finish with two sentences, if I may, Mr President. Mr President, I would like to say to you that he came to wool and went out tosquired, but using a language closer to the Liberal Initiative, I say to him: he invested in bitcoins and he was dependent. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u141	Mr Pedro Frazão has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, I am not going to tell you about PPP, but I will tell you that it seems that your parliamentary group has now agreed on a wonderful dream, due to the enormous electoral race it has had. In fact, it is well noted that you are elected by Lisbon, because it reveals that you are totally unaware of what is happening in the country, particularly in the last four days, when you have closed eight emergency services due to the lack of doctors.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u143	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u144	The honourable Member and his parliamentary group have supported a government that has caused more than half of the public hospitals to fall into technical bankruptcy, which has caused maternal-young mortality to be the highest in the last 38 years by 2020 and which has been accused of cutting into palliative care to save money. Do you know why, Your Honor? Because you and your parliamentary group want a National Injection Health Service. They want injection into euthanasia, injection into abortion, injection into light drugs and injection into everything that comes and goes. That's a shame! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. Deputies went to the gallery to say that the National Health Service is a mess and that emergencies are a mess. Why have they never sang the Grândola, Vila Morena to Dr. Marta Feared? It's just that the Minister of Health has been in office for four years. You, in the last governments, were employees and workers of the Grândola, Vila Morena, but now they are of "silent kiss" and no one can remember singing the Grândola, Vila Morena. He also had the audacity to speak of the SEF ( Foreign and Border Service ). Mr President, how many times did your parliamentary group speak and shout, demanding the closure of the SEF?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u145	Even today!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u146	And now you're saying you're sorry about the airport problem? Oh, my God! The problem of airports is in fact a problem of lack of capacity of the SEF. He also spoke about justice, but his parliamentary group in 2019 said that he would set up the national justice service together with the government. Where is he? I don't see him! They had no negotiating power and now woke up a dream of wonders to come to say this. Mr President, the question that I leave you is very simple: where is the inventory of health professionals that your party and the left approved in 2015 and which in 2019 was the subject of a resolution adopted in this Assembly of the Republic? You spoke in numbers, but who gives them is the Order of the Doctors. You are always accusing doctors of being capitalist and the Order of the Doctors of being corporate, but after all, Mr. Deputies uses the data of the Order. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Protests by PS MP Maria Antonia de Almeida Santos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u147	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Helga Correia from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u148	Mr. President, I welcome you and Mrs. Members and I welcome the Block on the Left for bringing to the debate such a relevant and important issue, because we continue to witness, on the part of the Portuguese Government, a widespread devaluation of health professionals, their careers and the National Health Service. when it does not function and fails in its primary function of care for people, the National Health Service also demotivates its professionals, who feel unable to respond, due to lack of physical and technical means, but also of human means. We continue to see a lack of planning and total governance of the National Health Service and we have health services with more costs, but with worse results. from the government, instead of planning and strengthening the National Health Service in a timely manner, what we are looking at is the opening of contests, which are empty. And why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? Because the government is not being able to meet the expectations of health professionals. We continue to see health professionals leaving the National Health Service for the private system. In order to replace them, employers are hired, which is poor financial and social management, because the State pays more for a service that would be much cheaper. On the one hand, we are aggravating the cost and on the other hand the number of State precariouss. In this regard, let me remind you of Mr. Prime Minister's statements in 2017 to the Renaissance Radio, when he said, and I quote: « The State is not above the law. One of the fundamental rules is that precariousness is prohibited and service provision contracts should only be used for service delivery situations. Those who are in permanent, regular functions must be entitled to a contract. Do not keep on seeking. ” Well, Mr. Prime Minister says one thing and your opposite. On the one hand, it says it regulates workers, but on the other, it continues to hire precarious workers for the State. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that in 2010 spending on working doctors was EUR 130 million and the PSD reduced it to EUR 80 million. You are here, Mr. Member of the Socialist Party, that barrier in which the PSD has reduced this expenditure, but the PS has increased it to 130 million today. Mr. Member of the Left Block, it is also important to clarify how for six years the Block has supported a government that has completely de- governmented the National Health Service and, as you said, has left the national health system sick. What are we in, Mr? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u149	To reply, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u150	Mr President, Mrs Helga Correia knows why she was in Parliament when it was the last time the Left Block voted in favour of an annual Socialist Party budget. If you don't have that memory, I remember: it was in the Budget for 2019, we were in November 2018.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u151	I have that memory, I have!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u152	I will explain why we voted in favour of the Budgets for 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019. This is because they all guarantee two things that were the mark of the agreement we did: they guarantee that the income cuts that the right made over the years in wages and pensions were broken...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u153	It was your friends!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u154	... and guarantee investment in public services. That is why we hired more people for the National Health Service, hired more teachers and guaranteed more investment, either in the National Health Service or in education.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u155	What about precarious workers? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u156	What's changed, then? We woke up one day rudely, we turned to the side and decided to change the vote? No, Mrs. Member, what changed was that the policies of the Socialist Party ceased to be in line with those two values that were the only basis of understanding that we had, the defence of incomes and the defence of public services, and this is visible in the field of health. You know, because you have attended the debates, that the last thing you can say is that the Left Block has supported the PS Government for six years, even more in the field of health. That's a lie.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u157	How can this be said?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u158	She knows, because she accompanies this matter, that we have been alerting for years to several of the problems we are experiencing today: lack of recruitment of professionals, competitions that are increasingly deserts, lack of serious careers and, above all, I believe this is the most subjective point, but most important one—, lack of respect for those who give life to the National Health Service. I believe that this divergence we have with the Socialist Party, which is visible in our votes, is also a divergence that we have with the PSD and which is added to another aspect, which is that we would like to give the private what should be a guarantee of all. Mr. Pedro Frazão, I must tell you that, about memories and about Grândola, I still remember, not even two months ago, that I stood up, with my comrades and colleagues from other benches, to sing it and from arriving out of thinness through that side gate.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u159	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u160	They're out of thin! So about singing the Grândola and knowing its lyrics, its meaning and its values, I have not forgotten anything.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u161	You seem to have forgotten!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u162	I have a good memory and have not forgotten, too, that the leader of his party was defending the closure of the country's largest motherhood, the Alfredo Motherhood of the Costa. I don't forget that the arrival had in his program—then he hid it—because they're very skilled to put things that don't matter behind the door—...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u163	You're just like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u164	Hide is with you!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u165	... the extinction of the National Health Service. [[It's a lie!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u166	I also know how they got up so many times—and, I say more, how they will get up! — to defend contracts with private persons. Mr President, as far as I know all this, I also know that all this rights, for the sake of arriving, is an abnormality. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u167	He didn't answer anything. It was just music!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u168	For a political declaration on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mr. Paulo Pisco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since 2016, the day of Portugal, the Camões and the Portuguese Communities has also taken place with the presence of Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister and other individuals. This celebration, now in Europe, now outside Europe, represents a turning point in the relationship with the Portuguese communities and has come to stay. Whoever the Presidents and Prime Ministers in the future will not be able to interrupt this practice, initiated in 2016 in Paris, which means recognizing the importance of millions of Portuguese and Luso-descendants, helps them to be better known in their diversity and is a way of saying that they will not be forgotten by Portugal. It is therefore very relevant that also the leader of the PS Parliamentary Group has decided to spend the Portuguese Day with our communities. We did it on June 11 in Paris, in a meeting with compatriots with the most varied occupations, and we heard them. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] It is essential to listen to the voices of our communities and to understand the emotional dimension that is inherent to them so as to better respond to their needs and narrow the distance that often separates us. It must be borne in mind that communities have changed a great deal from the past — they are much more diverse in their composition, with better training and information, more affirmative and demanding — and that we cannot continue to treat as emigrants those who already go in the second and third generations, who have two and sometimes three nationalities. We need to eliminate social prejudices and all forms of discrimination, whether in fiscal terms, in public services or in other areas. The end of the obligation of the tax representative to those who live outside the European Union, announced by the Government on Portugal's Day in London, is one of the steps in this regard. [[P.S.'s applause.]] More than talking about emigration, we must, above all, value the Portuguese presence in the world and dignify our people and our legacy, which represents an extraordinary political, diplomatic, business and cultural activity. The announcement made by the Secretary of State of the Communities, in Andorra, of the opening of a general consulate is excellent news and reveals how the weight of a community can shape the relationship between two countries, as with Luxembourg or France, for example. The Portuguese presence in the world over several generations gives us the identity that we so often evoke with pride, our ancestral humanism, universalism and cosmopolitanism. We are well aware of the weight that our communities have and therefore do everything to create a relationship of trust and closeness, both in Europe and outside Europe, particularly for those who are further away or in more problematic countries, such as South Africa or Venezuela, where we have important Macedonian communities, or the United States and Canada, where there are important Azorian communities. The Assembly of the Republic and the Government will know, as they have always known, to accompany all our communities and respond to their needs and expectations, in social, social, social and cultural terms.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u170	The Portuguese couldn't even vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u171	The Portuguese are in every corner of the world, as was demonstrated when the automatic census of all who had a foreign address registered on the citizen card was made, increasing the electoral universe from 320 000 to about 1 million and a half voters, one of the most daring measures that any government has already taken, to give influence and projection to the communities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But we are also aware that there have been other problems with their implementation, starting with the 2019 legislative elections. We will therefore shortly present legislative proposals to improve the electoral process and prevent such situations as mass cancellation of votes from happening again. For now, the PS Parliamentary Group will present other initiatives, still in this Legislative Session, such as the amendment to the law of the Council of the Portuguese Communities, essential to adapt electoral cycles to the extension of the number of voters arising from the automatic census, or a bill of law, of the greatest importance, which enshrines the obligation of the State to place institutional advertising in the diaspora social media bodies whenever they are matters of their interest. This support is essential so that they can continue to play their central role in informing, promoting language and culture and in mobilizing our communities.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u172	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u173	We know that it is necessary to solve some difficulties in areas such as consular care and we are committed to doing so, with more employees, with the review of their professional status and salary table and with the operationalization of the new consular management model, which will make an important contribution to improving care. Portuguese residents abroad make an invaluable contribution to the development of the country, because they project Portugal, invest and help to dynamize the interior, help create jobs and wealth through imports, are important drivers of bilateral relations and never fail in solidarity when a disaster happens. Above all, they are linked to the country by the heart. Portugal does not end on our borders, it extends across all continents through our compatriots. Our collective task is thus to unite the Portuguese, creating a nation where everyone feels equal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u174	The Bureau registered six entries to request clarification from the honourable Member, which I imagine will answer in two blocks of three requests each.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u175	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u176	Mr Ricardo Sousa, from the PSD, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u177	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Paulo Pisco, the public services in Portugal are in collapse and this is felt in our day-to-day areas. This is, in fact, beginning to be a real watermark of the Socialist Party. With regard to communities, in a six-minute speech, you have reserved 3 or 4 lines to one of our main problems. The PSD Parliamentary Group has repeatedly been warning about the chaotic state of our consular posts, with long queues of waiting, lack of staff and fatigue of consular officials. A request for a passport renewal schedule may take months to obtain an answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u178	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u179	Consular services, Member of the Commission, are in bankruptcy today. There is no memory of a situation of disaster and despair such as that of the Portuguese communities currently living when they need to use our consular services.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u180	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u181	The presence of the Portuguese State in our communities is no longer a facilitating element of the relationship with Portugal, it is rather a barrier — one more! — that our emigrants have to face.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u182	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u183	The lack of personnel living in the consular structure justifies intervention by the Government to resume its regular operation. These problems and delays in consular services have been felt for years. The government has promised that it would resolve the situation with the strengthening of human resources and computer resources, but so far nothing has happened.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u184	Nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u185	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u186	The communities are our true foreign policy priority, for many years, but the PS treats the citizens of our communities as second-order citizens. The Government programme provides for the revision and strengthening of the network by applying the new model of consular management. Socialist promises which, of course, remain to be fulfilled. Mr. Paulo Pisco, when do you bet on digitizing services? For when is a staff reinforcement? When is the salary review of consular officials? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u187	To request clarification, Mr Pedro Pessanha, from the Czech Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Paulo Pisco, it is common sense that, as far as immigration circles are concerned, the last legislative elections resulted in an authentic shame, leaving a bitter taste to the Portuguese living abroad. The chaos was set up, in fact, as it had already happened in previous elections, with the title of « dubious» procedures, at least, and leaving democracy seriously wounded. I ask you: what is being done to make future electoral processes clearer, transparent and effective, worthy of a rule of law? The second question I will ask you is the following: last October 27, 2020, represented by the first petitioner Pedro Cláudio Caldeirinha Rupio, with 4524 signatures, gave entry to the Assembly of the Republic a petition entitled « Portuguese for all! For the right of our children and young people to a teaching of Portuguese abroad of quality and free of charge», which we consider to be of high relevance and importance, making it clear that something is wrong in Portuguese foreign education, in particular with regard to teaching, as a mother tongue, of Portuguese children and young people living abroad. Having said this, Mr President, considering that our language is, in many cases, our homeland, with all that this expression implies, I ask: what is being done to guarantee these children and young people the right to their own mother-in-law, which is the language of their parents and grandparents?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u189	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u190	Mr President, Mr Pisco, I welcome you on the subject of the debate and the years of work you have on this subject. It has already been mentioned, but I would also like to add my word to this question: when will the PS finally accompany the other political groups, the other parties represented in this Parliament, defending the abolition of the tips in the teaching of Portuguese for the Luso-descendants? By the time the update—finally—of the salaries of consular officials and the correction of injustices, as in the case of consular officials in Brazil, who gain in reals, but indexed at a fully out-of-date exchange rate and who are seriously impaired with that? When will it be completed — finally — the consular and diplomatic network in countries of the European Union? I recently went to the Council of the European Greens in Riga, Latvia... Portuguese in Latvia have to go to Stockholm, Portuguese in Estonia have to go to Helsinki, Portuguese in Lithuania have to go to Warsaw! Will it not make sense to be represented at least in the countries of the European Union? Oh, my God! Finally, the honourable Member referred to the votes of the Portuguese abroad. Even at the end of last week, and it will repeat itself - this weekend - the Luso-French voted in the French elections by means of an electronic vote. The experience went very well and there is no news of fraud. Will the PS defend that Portuguese abroad can have access to electronic voting?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u191	To reply, Mr. Paulo Pisco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u192	Mr President, I would begin by replying to Mr Ricardo Sousa, saying the difference between the PS and the PSD, in this regard, is that when the government arrives, the PS builds while the PSD does it is to destroy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u193	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u194	I recall that during the PSD Government more than 500 staff have been removed and several consular posts have been removed.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u195	It's true! Among them, Andorra's.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u196	Among them, Andorra's.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u197	The Portuguese in Andorra have been left without consulate!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u198	What the governments of the Socialist Party do is open up more consular posts, reclassify them and give them dignity to serve our communities better. We have here the best of all examples: the PSD closed the embassy and the consular section in Andorra, but it has now been announced the opening of a general consulate in Andorra, which is very important,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... not only for the Portuguese community, but also for bilateral relations between Portugal and Andorra, which are very relevant. As I said recently, it is the weight of our community that shapes the bilateral relationship between the two countries. As for Mr. Pedro Pessanha, I would like to say the following: Portuguese Foreign Education has been a bet of the Socialist Party and there have been more courses, more students, more teachers, an extension of chairs and readers at all levels of teaching, an increase in Portuguese presence and Portuguese language and culture abroad. I believe that at times no one realizes, but at the moment Portuguese language and culture are taught in some 78 countries worldwide.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u199	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u200	This is not a small thing for a country with the size of Portugal. We will also apply the words of the PRR, in addition to what will be done in terms of expansion of our network, to improve access to Portuguese Foreign Education through digital means that are implemented so that students who are further away from the sites where there is greater concentration can, through this way, attend the courses of Portuguese. Finally, Mr Rui Tavares, I would like to point out that, with regard to the abolition of propines, our electoral programme is that there will be a progressive reduction of the propines and we hope that it will actually culminate in their abolition. With regard to the issues of the review of the salary table and the professional status of consular officials, this negotiation process is under way and we will do everything in order for it to continue its course and to correspond to the expectations of consular officials. We have a problem and this needs to be known: in the past, besides having had a great reduction in the number of employees, there was also a review of the salary table in 2013, in the time of the PSD, which created many of the problems we now have in order to maintain the attractiveness of consular functions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u201	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Alma Rivera of the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u202	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Paulo Pisco, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on the subject that you have brought about from the Portuguese communities, and I would like to address two major issues. The first has to do with precisely what has been said, which is the insufficient network and the answer from the consular point of view. In fact, the de-investment—which ultimately results in a lack of financial, material and human resources, but also in the inadequacy of the network to the new needs of migration movements—improves, and much, the Portuguese communities abroad. In addition to Andorra, we would like to see what the real objectives are and what the commitments you here want and can take. I also want to say that he spoke to us about the importance of symbolism, of celebrating dates that unite us outside the national territory, but symbols are not enough to deepen the sense of identification, belonging, of proximity to our country. For example, investment in language teaching is needed, which has already been addressed.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u203	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u204	Thus, like what he has done with other areas—he criticized when the tips were introduced, but then, when he had the power to abolish them, he did not! — we want to know whether the compromise of progressive reduction here is like that of progressive reduction of tips in higher education, a commitment that has remained on the way, that no one can remember or expect it to happen. Therefore, we want to know whether there are concrete commitments or whether we can conclude that in this and other issues they will continue to agree with the PSD and CDS option. With regard to school textbooks, thanks to the intervention of the CFP and a very great insistence and struggle that have been made, it was achieved free of charge in compulsory education. at this time, Portuguese children and young people living abroad are being discriminated against because the PS does not want to take this free. As we are preparing next school year, we ask whether it will reconsider this issue and end the discrimination that affects Portuguese children and young people abroad. [[PCP applause.]] [[At the moment, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u205	Mr Rodrigo Saraiva, of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u206	Madam President, dear Mr Pisco, I would like to thank you for the subject that has brought us. I believe that this is perhaps the subject where the most consensus will exist in terms of the diagnoses, but also of the solutions that are needed. As regards the diagnosis, I agree with you regarding the needs, what needs to be improved in the electoral system, in the Council of the Portuguese Communities and also in the consular field, either in relation to the network, or in terms specific to workers. It is surprising, however, that at the end of seven years of socialist government, go to the gallery to talk about it as if it were a problem you discovered yesterday, when you know it a little longer. But above all, I would like to congratulate you, because in recent years it has been the face of the Socialist Party, its representative, with the Portuguese community in the diaspora, especially in Europe, which was elected. I would like to congratulate you, and I know that you must be proud of the quantitative and qualitative assessment that must be made in relation to this community, because, of all Portuguese communities, this has been the one that has grown most and has been more qualified. I would like to congratulate you on this and I would like you to share with us what is, in your opinion, the secret to the success of the Portuguese community's growth in European countries and also to be more qualified. I could give the example of the nurses' sector, but, speaking in terms of quantity, only between 2019 and 2021, there was an average of 27 000 permanent exits, without referring to the average of 43 000 temporary exits. We also talk about these data: in 2020 Portugal was the country of the European Union which received the highest value of remittances, which is a fantastic thing. Of the EUR 3600 million — I think — received in remittances, we received more than 200 million from a country like Romania, for example. In fact, they are impressive data and, once again, I want to congratulate you on your efforts. In conclusion, I ask you: do you think this is a community that grows much and is increasingly qualified because individually each of the Portuguese who emigrated did it by choice or because it did it by obligation?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u207	Sir, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u208	I shall finish, Madam President. They took this option for a matter of freedom of choice or because they had no choice in their country of origin, which is Portugal? [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u209	To request clarification, Mr José Moura Soeiro, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u210	Mr President, Mr Paulo Pisco, knows, certainly better than I, the serious gaps that exist in the access of Portuguese citizens to public services abroad. These gaps, which will not be ignored, have to do with the lack of employees, with the poor attractiveness of career conditions, and also with problems which the Socialist Party has not solved, such as wage imbalance, with tables that are inadequate to local realities. We all received a communiqué, already mentioned, from the workers of the consulates of Portugal in Brazil, speaking precisely of the wage calamity in one of the countries in which this reality is more serious, because the wage is received in the local currency and the workers are affected by the exchange and galloping inflation. It is therefore a serious problem that has not been solved, as the absence of social protection of workers who have not been registered in social security in Portugal has not been resolved, who have no social protection in the countries where they worked and who are in limbo of total lack of protection. But there is also a second topic, which has already been discussed and which has to do with the tips. The honourable Member said the Socialist Party is building. So it was time to build a solution and end the tips in Portuguese Foreign Education. In 2012, the right set up the tips in Portuguese Foreign Education and Mr.Deputy has been a critic, but the fact is that, despite the more promises he enters into his programs, the Socialist Party does not end with these tips. We all know, and we agree, that contact with language is a fundamental dimension of the bond with Portuguese culture. Not only from the bond, but from the enrichment of Portuguese culture and language as living reality, as a plural reality in its expressions, by the experience of diaspora itself. More than the source of revenue, access to language should be a free public service for Portuguese citizens who are abroad, ending the discrimination between Portuguese citizens abroad and those who live here and end not only with the tip, but also with the payment of the manuals. There is a petition that has to be scheduled in this plenary and that will be a good opportunity for the Socialist Party to comply with a concern that is being expressed, but for which it has not been consistent. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u211	To respond to these requests for clarification, Mr. Paulo Pisco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u212	Madam President, I would like to take this opportunity to respond together. It began precisely by the symbolic dimension of the evokement of Portuguese communities. Regardless of what we can say, the fact is that it was the Socialist Party who brought this issue, to discuss it democratically with all other parties, exposing itself to the exchange of ideas about the dimension of what is relevant to the Portuguese communities. Of course, this is related to the traditional aspects of our communities, very associated with a traditional concept of emigration that has to do with Portuguese Foreign Education, consular care and association movement. All absolutely fundamental dimensions, for which we have an obligation to provide all conditions for our communities to be properly served. The truth is that our reality and our history reveal that we have a country with a strong emigration abroad, regardless of the conditions. over decades, it has been rooted in practices that have to do with the network itself that created and that facilitates all this current exit of Portuguese. When we have a quite qualified population at European Union level, it is clear that eventually this will also be reflected in the communities that are abroad, but there is one issue that we have to take into account: the first right is that each citizen has to stay in his own country, but no one can be limited in their freedom to leave. therefore there are all those who come out because they want to experience and have new experiences, and this must be taken into account. With regard to what you have done over the past seven years, the Socialist Party has been solving problems. Until 2017, we were in loss for consular officials, but from then on we started to have a positive balance and currently there are competitions to hire more than 100 consular officials. Of course we will have to overcome the difficulties arising from the remuneration status of consular officials, which is no longer attractive with the change made in 2013 by the PSD. We are committed to these amendments and are committed to the amendments regarding professional status. The issue of remittances is also inherent in all the migrant communities that exist, wherever they are, and has many reasons. One of these reasons is that Portuguese, particularly those who reside in Europe, trust their country, and we all realize that much of these EUR 3, EUR 6 billion are remittances coming from Europe and have as a common trait the fact that they are being sent by citizens who are now in these countries, they are now in Portugal. We have a work to do, both with our communities and here in our society, in order to eliminate prejudices, to change structures, to better adapt the conditions for receiving Portuguese residents abroad.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u213	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u214	I'm done now, Madam President. What we are told, for example, is that a good part — more than half — of those returning under this programme...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u215	How many have returned? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u216	... are young people who have emerged in recent years, with higher training and qualification, which means that our country has this attraction that was recently denied by Mr Rodrigo Saraiva. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u217	To make a political statement, Mr André Coelho Lima, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u218	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In this political statement, the PSD brings a reflection that intends to extend to the one which has occupied much of the other political declarations to which we have witnessed. The last few days have been particularly difficult for the image of the Portuguese State, for the image of the country, with the absolute chaos in the health we have witnessed — a demonstration of navigation in view of this government — but the truth is, if we think that our hospitals are setting a bad example of organization and preparation, also in what is the first contact from abroad with our country, the situation could hardly be worse. Our airports, particularly Lisbon, have been the visible face of the disorganization and disorientation of our government. The Lisbon airport is, I must say, a model of how this government manages. It seems that the problem of what we have witnessed — endless hours, with hundreds and hundreds of people waiting, for one whole day, to be cared for — is under the circumstances of the airport being now too crowded. It's a fantastic problem, I must say! But what you have to ask the government and all of us is this: has anyone been surprised to have increased the flow to the Lisbon airport and to the Portuguese airports? The government has not been informed that the pandemic is ending and that it would — I know! — expected to increase the influx to airports? Isn't that what we wanted? Wasn't it supposed to be the increase of tourists in our country? Shouldn't we be prepared for that? Does the Government not know, on a daily basis, how many flights landing in Portugal — those coming tomorrow, tomorrow and next week — and their origins? Don't you know? Oh, my God! Of course you know all this. Everything that's happening at Lisbon airport was predictable for everyone, less for the government. And what is the Government's response in this matter? It's the usual one, a contingency plan. All right! It is the standard answer: "We did not know what was obvious to everyone, we did not prepare ourselves at least for this situation, but we are going to unravel ourselves in some way. Do not keep on seeking. ” So, what does this contingency plan consist of? From then on, to strengthen the available quota of SEF officials and agents — all of them — to the Portuguese airports and also to recruit PSP (PSC) agents for reception boxes to tourists and foreigners visiting us. All right! How can we recruit the available SEF quota if it has been reduced in a fifth of recent months because of the government's intervention? How so, recruiting SEF agents, if there are already endless rows in the regularization and renewal of residence permits, and if everyone goes to the airports is going to be even worse? How is it to say, recruit the PSP for airports, if this was the response given today by the PSP : « The Union of Police Professionals Association announced yesterday that it will hold protests in the airports of Lisbon, Porto and Faro in July and August to raise awareness among tourists about the problems of the PSP »? I mean, this could hardly be worse. The blanket is short and when the head is covered, the feet are dissipated. But, better than all this, it is the final solution of the Minister for Infrastructure and Housing, also published in today's news: « Minister admits refusal of flights in Lisbon in 2023. Do not keep on seeking. ” Here's the typical socialist response. After the breakthrough, only the infallible measure of putting the towel to the floor as a way to solve these situations. [[PSD applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, all of this happens because it is pending — and the expression is this! — a process of extinction of the SEF, which is also being carried out in an exemplary manner. First, the administrative and police entities were separated and the SEA ( Service of Foreigners and Asylum ) was created, as it was baptized. As soon as he was baptized as he was given the extreme-unction. Now it is APMA (Portuguese Agency for Migration and Asylum) — we have changed our mind! The SEF was supposed to have been extinct—was extinct in November 2021 — in 60 days. For, within 60 days, the entry into force of this legislation was postponed and 180 days later, the entry into force of this legislation was postponed again. We will hardly be able to give any further evidence of disorientation in this area. But there is more: monitoring of cruise terminals. What was defined in the law was that land and maritime borders were GNR ( Republican National Guard ), port and airport borders were PSP. It was like this... but no! Now, cruise terminals are in charge of the GNR and with a stoning justification, which I quote: « GNR Commander General had difficulty in operational coordination, stressing that this solution contradicted the rules of the integrated border management model assumed by Portugal in the European Union. » — a pull of ears coming directly from the GNR Commander General. In fact, this process could not be more exemplary. [[PSD applause.]] So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in order to conclude on this subject, what is asked of the Government is humility. Ask him to reconsider. Don't be asked, at least, to retreat, because it just retreats from a linear line and this line is all less linear, it's to curves and countercurves, with bumps. [[PSD applause.]] A process that started badly has everything to end even worse. In the name of the highest national interest and of what concerns the internal security system, what is required is that the Government be able to review this situation and take advantage of the diatribes in which it was involved to rethink the extinction of the SEF and do things as they should be done. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u219	Mr President, the Bureau has registered three entries for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u220	All together, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u221	All right. To make the first request for clarification, Mr Pedro Pinto, of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u222	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, more than ask Mr André Coelho Lima a question, it is time to make a reflection. We're in a chaotic situation. As you said — and very well! — from the top of that rostrum, we have chaos in hospitals, chaos in airports and, plus, chaos in the security of the country. Note that the news of the last few weeks, which are now almost hidden by everything that happens in hospitals, is news of stabs, gang attacks by 15 and 16-year-olds, of deaths at the doors of discotheques, of deaths at football parties, of police assaulted at various points in the country, from north to south. This is what is happening in our country right now. There is chaos in hospitals and still this morning, a baby was born inside the parents' car, at the door of the Faro hospital. This is what the Socialist Party has to give, this is the SNS of the Socialist Party and also the Left Block and the PCP. In fact, this debate has been quite interesting, because, in addition to the little birds that pass over us so often, we have seen a bunch of lovers. This reminds the weddings of St. Anthony, but that last little. We saw, for example, the rubble of the Left Block and the PCP with the PS that lasted six years, so it still lasted something. But the breach between the Liberal Initiative and the Left Block lasted very little because, after all, they dispute the same electorate, they want more or less the same thing. The honourable Member also spoke very well of the SEF. Mr André Coelho Lima, the question I ask you is very direct, namely: does the PSD agree, as the Arrival has repeatedly claimed, that the SEF is not extinct? What is the solution that the PSD has for the country and for the non-extinction of the SEF? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u223	For a request for clarification, Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u224	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Coelho Lima, I naturally welcome the subject that brings us to this, even because all this was more than planned and announced. The fact is that it was only because they did not want to take the necessary measures, responding to complaints made by workers' organisations and by the various entities working at airports. It wasn't just like that in the last two years because we had the pandemic. This situation has many responsible and, curious, frightening or not, the first is the PSD, when it privatized ANA ( Airports and Air Navigation) and handed it over to Vinci, subjugating national interests to the interests of this multinational. This has, of course, made the facilities never adequate and the one that was the necessary step, the construction of the new airport in Lisbon, be blocked simply because it does not financially compensate this multinational. I remember that there was land, there was capital, there was environmental support and there was even an extended consensus to advance with the new airport at the Campo de Tiro de Alcochete. This was not because PSD, PS and Vinci were not able to put national interest in the profits of multinationals and economic groups, something we are also getting used to. To this all adds a new problem that was created to give an answer to a sad and regrettable situation that we had, but that was worse the amendment than the sonnet: the government announced the dismantling of the SEF, mixing two matters which should not be mixed. One is the separation of police functions and administrative functions, another is the extinction of the SEF. One thing has nothing to do with the other and it's not worth fighting here and confusing the discussion. All of this together, i.e. the privatization of ANA, the inadequacy of the facilities as well, plus a situation of lack of effectiveness, which is more than known and denounced, adding to the instability created by the extinction of the SEF, has led us to this situation. Therefore, the question I leave you with is to reconsider the options of the PSD in order to be able to respond to the situation and chaos that exists today. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u225	For a request for clarification, Mrs Susana Amador of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u226	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Coelho Lima, today has brought us a very important topic, the internal administration, which, recently, had even the challenge of the Minister to deal with, with serenity, looking at a new strategic human security council in the light of what are the global threats that cross the world. However, what I heard from this gallery, Mr. André Coelho Lima, was all less serenity. It was all less construction. It was all less dialogue. Everything was less willing to add. And above all, it was a speech, if I may, with the respect I have for you, which is a great thing, because, by addressing the issue of the Lisbon airport and the rows to which we all attend during the weekend and which we regret, we always regret that there are rows and that there is hope and that there is no good service that we wish is always better — do so in a very incomplete way. It is also important to realize, and the SEF also said, that the context and the time we live is creating constraints at all airports. We saw news of a strike at Charles de Gaulle Airport that cancelled a quarter of the flights. In The Guardian it is said that passengers face great delays, great distances at Gatwick Airport. Also in Spain, huge numbers of people are being reported, waiting. The same thing happens in the Netherlands, Schiphol, Germany, particularly in the Lufthansa balconies, and out there. All this on the last weekend. That is, the last few weeks, and the last few days in particular, have created pressure and constraints at all European airports.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u227	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u228	Therefore, this problem is not a national problem. It is a European problem that has to do with the massive influx of people. We cannot say that there is a disorientation from Portugal here or that this is due to the restructuring of the SEF because there is a disorientation from all governments in England, France, Spain, the Netherlands, the United States and elsewhere. [[P.S.'s applause.]] All governments are out of sight and all have a restructuring problem for the SEF! Therefore, we cannot confuse what cannot be confused.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u229	The SEF is being mismanaged in the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u230	at this time, there is always this pressure, but it did not stand to watch this in an impatience. There is a summer plan, which has already begun in June, and which I must say, Mr President, not only reinforces the human resources from the point of view of the SEF — 25 inspectors — how it reinforces something that has not been mentioned and which has to do with new technological solutions with more innovation as regards cats. Cats are now also able to receive passengers from the United States and Canada, which account for 25% of the shipments in recent weeks.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u231	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u232	There is therefore work at various levels, including human resources, technology and innovative solutions. They're not gonna make the rows disappear, but they're gonna fall. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u233	In response to these requests for clarification, Mr André Coelho Lima of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u234	Madam President, I would like to begin precisely by replying to Mrs Susana Amador just to make a previous clarification. The respect you have for me is the same as I have for you, therefore, I will bear in mind that I did not hear you using the expression 'no civilization' in relation to my intervention. To speak in thought, I accept, because it is within the limits of debate, civilization, it will understand that it does not accept.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u235	I didn't use that expression!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u236	In any case, I will respond to the substance of what he says to me: this is a problem that is not unique to the country, it is transversal to other European countries. That is, in short, your intervention. I will not dispute what he says, because there are problems at other airports, it is true, but we are here to deal with our own, we are not yet in the European Parliament or in the parliaments of the other countries. However, ladies and gentlemen, I have to answer with one question: if that is what you say, why was a contingency plan necessary? If everything was ready, if it wasn't surprised, why is the SEF quota being reinforced for airports? Why is PSP recruiting for airports? Why is the plan from the end of May? Do you know what date? I will remind you: it is the date of the first round at Lisbon airport. So this is the greatest proof that none of this was prepared. Although no one was prepared throughout Europe, there was no preparation here either. This is clear! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS Deputies Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias and Susana Amador.]] Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP, in short, believes that it is privatization—and Mr Vinci — who is responsible for all this and returns to 2013. I've heard recently that the problem was the 2013 legislation, which is almost 10 years old. [[Protests by PCP MP Alma Rivera.]] What I have to say to you, Mrs Deputies, has to do with what you said: you have privatized yourself and the facilities have never been adequate. One of the most important things for us in our lives is bread, but bakeries are private. Are the facilities inadequate because they are private?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u237	Where's the airport?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u238	The airport is the airport, the dry papo is the dry papo!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u239	Do you know what happens in the rest of Europe? All over Europe, are these facilities public? Oh, my God! They are, aren't they? Oh, my God! Is that the answer? That's not the answer. The PCP, instead of taking the central theme, the SEF, which is a theme in which the PCP was always on the right side of the barricade, went looking for political archaeology to search for ideological differences. But here they don't come knocking on the right door, because we're discussing today's problem, the summer of 2022, and the impreparation of this government for the summer that it was expected to have the number of people that have. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] Finally, Mr Pedro Pinto, from the Czech Republic, did, as I said, a set of considerations and I just have to give you an explanation, if I may. Mr. Deputy asked whether the PSD was following the arrival. I think I wanted to ask the contrary question: if you arrive with the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u240	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u241	It is that, if there is a matter where the PSD is in the front line, it is in this, not only in dialectics, but with concrete proposals on how to keep the SEF in operation. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u242	For a political declaration, Mr André Ventura of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u243	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today is a particularly curious day for what we live. The National Health Service is in deep chaos and disintegration, and the Socialist Party brings to us the theme of communities.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u244	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u245	Make sense! If we think, it makes so much sense as it did, when we had to repeat the elections in the circle of Europe, the Socialist Party brings the issue of health to the debate in Parliament. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Protests from PS Eurico Brilliant Days and Berta Nunes Members.]] It is always a cycle party with the current themes that interest the country. Of course, the Liberal Initiative, in a great manifestation of affection for the Socialist Party, also understood that health was not a relevant topic. It's better to talk about other things, like renting. In fact, we turn on television today and everyone sees about renting. From the north to the south of the country there is talk of lease! In cafes, and everywhere, if you hear the word « rent», « rent»! It's everywhere! [[Congrats from the CH.]] The PSD, of course, always in that logic of having a foot on both sides of the field, came to talk to us about internal administration, at the same time, with a touch, here and there, in health. To hear Mr André Coelho Lima say that the PSD is following the SEF and that the arrival is that it should accompany the PSD in this matter, if it were not a joke, it would be a tragedy. Mr. Member, if there was a party in this House that fought for the police who defend us, who fought for the SEF when the PSD gave its hands to the PS, it was arrive. It was never the PSD nor the Socialist Party. [[Congrats from the CH.]] But, Madam President and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we must make the record of the last five days of this country. On June 10, it was reported that a pregnant woman lost her baby at the Queen's Caldas hospital, but the PS thought we should talk about communities today. On June 11, he closed the obstetric emergency at Beatriz Angelo Hospital in Loures, and the PS thought we should talk about communities. On June 12, the emergency service of gynecology and obstetrics of Braga was closed due to the lack of health professionals, but the PS understood that it was today the day to talk about communities. On 13 June, the gynecology and obstetrics of the hospitals of S. Francisco Xavier, in Lisbon, and of Barreiro / Montijo, from 20 hours until 8 hours the following day. On 14 June, the emergency obstetrics of the Garcia de Orta Hospital were closed from 20 hours until 8 hours the next day and the service of the Portimão Hospital Unit, which had been closed so many times, was closed until 20 June, and I quote, to "ensure difficulties on the scale on the birth block". But all this is not important for the parties that are here and for Mrs. Minister, who don't know where he's going and who runs the journalists while he gets into the car. Everything is more relevant than talking about health on the day when, in the whole country, on television, the news is all about health. [[Protests by PS Member Berta Nunes.]] Unlike your parties, ours is not afraid. We're here to talk about health and that's what we want to talk to the Portuguese. [[Congrats from the CH.]] On Friday, when we are in this Chamber, at the request of the Arrival, to hold an urgent debate—which no one else thought relevant, it was only important for us to force a member of the Government to come to Parliament this week and not two or three — when we are here to discuss it, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the urgencys of Portalegre, of Elvas, of Ponte de Sor will be closed for pregnant women. If, even with this happening, they find it more important to be discussing anything else, when Portuguese people do not have the slightest access to health today, they are very wrong about the country in which they live and what Portuguese people want from politicians. Antonio Costa is away and said he wasn't talking about national politics abroad. I like the statesman António Costa who, two months ago, abroad, talked about various problems of justice in Portugal and metadata, but now you think that, abroad, you should not talk about national politics. This António Costa that accused Pedro Passos Coelho of inviting everyone to emigrate is the same as he didn't come here to answer to Parliament about why last year's number of emigration of doctors has been the highest since 2016. Yes, sir. Members, the number of doctors who emigrated in the last year has been the highest number since 2016, but PS thinks it is more important to talk about communities! I understand, because this health issue is not very easy. The PS and the extreme left fill their mouths to speak of the National Health Service free of charge, universal and an adequate and prosperous service for all. But what they have generated is not a health service for everyone, it is a service of the poor for the poor and it is absolutely degraded. That is what you have generated in recent years in Portugal with your left-wing policy. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mrs. Members, our National Health Service is not closer to the German, nor is it closer to the British, it is closer to Venezuela and Bolivia and this is due to an absolute socialist majority and its extreme left appendices that have led the country to the state in which it is. [[Congrats from the CH.]] We could at least say this: it's cheap, but it works! We could at least say that it's cheap and that we don't have so much waste, but the numbers show the opposite. Yes, sir. Members, the last six Budgets, some approved by the Left Block, the PCP, the ENP and the NAP, have allowed there to be a waste in health today – and I will tell you that there is no mistake – of 1000 million per year. billion per year, proportionally, they shame any OECD country ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ). Therefore, they explain to the Portuguese how they may not have open emergencies, how they may not have hospitals and health centres open, but have 1000 million a year spent on waste, fraud and corruption. This has only one brand, it's the brand of this system, which brought the National Health Service to where it is today. Mr. President and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will not be able to solve the problem of competitions and the lack of health professionals in three or four months. However, we should be able to ensure that the private or social service, to whom it is not attended in the National Health Service, to whom it has been waiting for two, three and four years, to whom it goes to an emergency and is closed, the necessary medical service, with the support and participation of the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u246	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u247	I will finish, Madam President. We have to put aside ideology and look at Portuguese people who are without health services. Let us, for one day, say that, if the State fails, there are others who can provide this service without ideology and without telling the Portuguese that we are better than they are, but, yes, that we are here for them. This is because, at the end of the day, there is no other reason for us to be here, but for the 11 million Portuguese who vote and are democrats in Portugal. [[Ch's applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u248	Mr President, the Bureau has two entries for requests for clarification. I assume you would like to answer together, and Mr André Coelho Lima of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor to make the first request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u249	Mr President, Mr André Ventura, since your intervention was proclaiming, I asked for the floor to have some limits in your high recreation. The honourable Member said that whoever fought for the SEF, when the PSD gave its hands to the PS, it was the Arrival, so I asked for the word to give him the opportunity to restore the truth or to retract, since that does not correspond to the truth. As much as we are excited about ourselves, in the speeches we make in the gallery, we are not talking only about the videos we put on YouTube. We must have some obedience to the truth in what we are saying. [[PSD applause.]] Mr President, there are sometimes differences of rigour, but here there is no difference of rigor, which you said is only false. The PSD, since hour number one, is against the extinction of the SEF. Since hour number one, still Mr Deputy was a single Member—now you are always with playful comments about the only Members, forgetting when they were — the PSD at that time was not only against how it presented an alternative reclassifying the SEF, transforming it as a security service. We propose a clear answer, valuing the SEF, valuing its professionals with legal amendments which you certainly do not know. However, you say in the rostrum — without being for yourself alone, because it is not! — that it is only to laugh that the PSD says it has always been against the extinction of the SEF forces its part to portray, because that is not true. This was the PSD position since the first hour. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u250	Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u251	Mr President, Mr Ventura, I note with a smile that you have spent half your time criticizing the fact that other parties have not talked about a certain subject, when you yourself have spent 3 or 4 minutes just talking about the issue that other parties have not spoken about, which is of brutal importance. [[Rice from PS and PSD Members.]] Let me tell you that, yes, people worry about housing, which was our theme, and, more importantly, that the time to talk about problems is when they can be solved, when they can be anticipated. This problem we are having with health today was a problem we should have talked about six months ago, one year ago and two years ago. And two years ago we were talking about this, a year ago we were talking about this, six months ago, in an election campaign, this was one of our main themes. We have in our election program 120 pages dedicated to health system reform, we have 10 times more health content than the entire Election Program. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[CH protests.]] So we talk about the issues when they can be solved, I repeat, we talk about when the themes can be solved. So, Mr. André Ventura, tell us, then, where is your health program, your alternative health model, tell us where you are going to read it. This is because we have a programme, we have already presented it, we have defended it several times. Where's yours? Where is your model that would have avoided such problems? [[Applause from the IL.]] [[CH protests.]] The President ( Edite Estrela ). In reply, Mr Ventura, of the Parliamentary Group of the United States of America, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u252	Mr President, Mr André Coelho Lima, I understand your reluctance to ask for the floor to ask for clarifications on a political declaration from the Arrival because, as the Express noted, there was an agreement between the PSD and PS not to ask any questions from the Arrival. The honourable Member must have asked for permission from Mr Mota Pinto, who is not here today. Perhaps, he called him and said to him: «Paul, can I talk about this today of André Ventura, or not? Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Congrats from the CH.]] So I understand your embarrassment to talk about it! The PS was a typical example: it remained silent to avoid further embarrassment, because its parliamentary leader is here today and is very attentive to this discussion. Mr. André Coelho Lima, what I said was that the PSD was not next to the SEF when it needed to be and I'm going to tell you when. Do you remember when, unfortunately, a Ukrainian died at the SEF facility? The PSD allowed that which was the narrative of the PS and the Left Block that the SEF should be globally punished for an incident that had happened. And I only saw on the street one party, which was the Arrival, the PSD was silent. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u253	That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u254	You're fucking kidding me!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u255	On that most dramatic day, Mr. Deputies, it wasn't the PSD we saw on the street!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u256	Go fuck yourself home!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u257	It's enough we've seen on the street! The PSD was silent next to the PS and the Left Block, allowing this collective criminalization to happen.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u258	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u259	But now, Mr President, let me tell you, too, that when the Arrival presented proposals to increase the salaries of security forces and risk subsidies, it was not on the side of the Arrival that the PSD voted, it was on the side of the PS. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u260	You're changing the subject!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u261	Mr President, we take no lessons from anyone about the treatment and protection of our security forces and you will always lose this debate whenever you want to stop it with us. Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, I understand that you may not have understood the intervention I brought here, but I wanted to draw attention. If you think that, in a week when a baby dies in a hospital, this is not the subject that Parliament should discuss, then you are wrong in Parliament, it is not me. I am very sorry, but the honourable Member is not very well in Parliament. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u262	It is not enough to decide who is good in Parliament and who is not!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u263	But now, Mr President, I will remind you of the programme of the Liberal Initiative... [[It's from Enough! It's not the Liberal Initiative!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u264	The honourable Member was not yet here, but his leader, his leader, João Cotrim Figueiredo, but I will remind them: The arrival proposes to increase wages for health professionals, the Liberal Initiative votes against; the arrival proposes more investment in health centres and hospitals, the Liberal Initiative votes against; the arrival proposes to adjust the nursing reform age, the Liberal Initiative votes against! [[IL protests.]] So, come here and say that you have a health program, sir, and come here and talk about the program. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I'm going to tell you something, Mr. Member, the Liberal Initiative until I could have the health Bible,... [[IL protests.]] ...because, as long as you are not next to those who are working every day for the health of the Portuguese, who are giving the face, their effort and their life for the health, you do not have a health program, have the neoliberal program for some health, which is a health for rich children and not health for the Portuguese. [[IL protests.]] This is the difference between us.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u265	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u266	I know it's hard for the Liberal Initiative to hear this, [[IL protests.]] ... but this is the truth and so the arrival has 12 Members and you have 8. We have implementation throughout the territory and for us... [[IL protests and CH counter-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u267	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, please create the conditions for the speaker to be able to complete his speech, which has already exceeded his time, so please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u268	My Dear Members of the Liberal Initiative, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, this is the great difference between us: for the Arrival do not only count those who live in Chiado or Foz! For us, all Portuguese—live in Portalegre, Algarve, Bragança, Azores or Madeira—are first Portuguese and must have access to this health. They're not just your friends from Chiado or Foz. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u269	When I asked for a little while ago for the ladies and gentlemen. Members would create conditions for the speaker to finish, and that would also apply to the bench of arrive. Mr Rui Rocha, of the Liberal Initiative, asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u270	It is to defend the honor of the bench, Madam President. [[CH's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u271	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u272	Madam President, I just want to tell Mr. André Ventura that it is not the Arrival, nor Mr. André Ventura, who decides who is right or who is wrong in Parliament. The people who are here have all been elected and all have the right to be here, regardless of the will, greater or lesser, of Mr André Ventura, to have us here. Here we are! Here we go! [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u273	To reply, Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u274	Madam President, we have registered this enterprising exercise of honour. Mr President, I did not say that you have no right to be here, you have every right to be here, I gave you a number. You like numbers so much, so you should understand them! That's why there are 12% who voted in the Arrival... [[IL protests.]] ... or 7%, so there are 12 Members of the Reach and there are only 8 Members of the Liberal Initiative. So in January 2022, we had 12 %... [[IL protests.]] Listen, January 2022, understand, be calm and understand. [[IL protests.]] I repeat, in January 2022, we had 12 % and you had 3 commas. Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not for anything, you know why? It's because we didn't come here just to defend the rich boys from Chiado and Foz.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u275	Again? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u276	We came here to defend the Portuguese workers... [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] I know that Mrs. Deputy is also from Foz or Chiado. Take it easy, take it easy... [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u277	Sir, please conclude. [[CH protests.]] Mrs. and Mrs. Members of the incoming Parliamentary Group create conditions for the work to continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u278	Madam President, I am sorry, but who is not creating conditions for us to continue is not the Arrival and the Arrival has 2 minutes to respond to the regiment figure of defense of the honor of the bench. Therefore, Madam President, when you tell me to finish the 50 seconds, I do not know which Rules of Procedure we are talking about, but it is not the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u279	Mr. Deputies has the same time that has been used for the defence of honour.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u280	I'm sorry, but that's not true. That is not true and is in the Rules of Procedure. What the Regiment says is that it's two minutes for the defense of honor...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u281	So, please continue and finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u282	Madam President, I'm sorry. I can take lessons from a lot of things,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u283	Well needed!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u284	...but of Regiment, certainly, I do not take lessons in this House! So the President has been wrong, but time continues to count as I speak with you. It's a little weird that this happens, but finally, do whatever you want, because we're going to finish. I advise you only to see the Rules of Procedure better because, if you are in your position, you should at least know the Rules of Procedure that you are applying here.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u285	You don't talk like that either!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u286	That is why, Mr President, it is very simple: we do not say that the Liberal Initiative has the right to be here, it has every right, as we certainly have. However, when a member of the Liberal Initiative says that his program is this, that and that, but all he does is vote against health, against health professionals and against health centres, I apologize there, but I can only conclude that the Liberal Initiative likes health, but only in two or three places in Portugal, the other 8 million citizens, for you, do not exist! It is different from the Arrival and that is why we have deployment throughout the territory and you are reserved to two or three cities in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u287	That's ridiculous!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u288	Mr President, you have had the tolerance of the time you were talking to the Bureau. For a political declaration, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u289	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Our political declaration today is devoted to the environment. However, before addressing this issue, we must mention the serious health problem in our country, particularly in obstetrics. We hope that, on Friday, the debate will be held structurally and that it will include all people, without exception, because, by the way, particularly in the State Budget, there were many proposals that remained behind, including about LGBTI people (Lesbics, Gays, Bisxuals, Trans and Intersex) or about maternal health units. This has not yet been discussed, nor has this debate been exhausted. At the end of June, Lisbon welcomes the United Nations Conference of Oceans, with the motto « Saving the Oceans, protecting the future ». The climate crisis we are going through, which is also linked to human health, cannot be neglected. This event takes place in the year and in the mandate in which we have seen the Ministry of the Sea disappear, by decision of the current government, which annexed this folder to the Ministry of Economics and Digital Transition, letting us anticipate what many already feared: that our oceans will continue to be seen from an economic perspective, as a resource to be boosted in the most profitable way, and not as an ally in the fight against climate change. In the transition to a green economy, the sea and the energy of the waves are fundamental and, above all, they are a heritage of humanity that needs to preserve. Portugal, as we well know, will unfortunately be one of the countries most affected by climate change, which will manifest itself in our country with the spread of diseases, extreme climate events, full, hurricanes, droughts, forest fires, sea level rise, lack of drinking water, desertification of vast areas of the territory and even extinction of species. In environmental matters, there are numerous treaties, agreements, plans, strategies and similar ones, but what has been left on the road is action. One of the great challenges of humanity is not only preserving and recovering ecosystems, but, above all, curbing the irreversible damage that we are witnessing on the planet and that will, of course, affect our species. The blue economy, which contributes about $2, $3 billion a year to the global economy, would translate-CL-if the oceans were a country in 5. the largest GDP (gross domestic product) at global level. However, the Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 14 — Protecting marine life — receives the lowest level of investment of all 17 objectives. The conservation of protected habitats and species within the framework of the Natura 2000 Network has deteriorated in Portugal and has been the target of a successive disinvestment. Despite the various million euros that we are going to receive from the PRR and from the options made in the State budget, the fact is that we continue to have a sub-investment in these matters, with an increase in poor conservation habitats, which have increased from 6 % to 29 % of the total in just a decade, which is in clear contradiction with what the current investment should be. We cannot forget that the oceans are fundamental to a healthy and habitable planet, but they are under attack of overfishing, pollution, plastic and numerous attacks that we make to our greatest ally in carbon retention. We produce about 8, 3 billion metric tons of plastic, which is equivalent to one ton per person. 12 million tons of plastic is being disposed of in the oceans, which is already present in our blood! Only a small fraction of plastic is recycled, so we know that it is not only with recycling that we achieve the objectives. Portugal is still failing in this area too. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, when the NAP presents concrete proposals for decarbonisation, energy transition, the circular economy or the withdrawal of plastic, defending the bet on a new model of development which is more responsible, socially and environmentally, we are not radical, as they like to make us believe. We aim first to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement, in Agenda 2030 — Sustainable Development, which will not be achieved by 2050, less by 2030. At the same time as pollution, trawling has also been compared to the destruction of tropical forests. And it is not the NAP that says so, but the scientific community and the various studies, including the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation, which claim that this is the least selective form of fishing in our seas and, undoubtedly, the most destructive for the environment and for marine biodiversity. instead of investing in the conversion of this activity and in safeguarding marine values, like the tax bubbles that are given to polluting activities, the government continues to finance trawl fishing, delaying a deep reflection on fishing models and their conversion into more sustainable models that guarantee our future. Besides the sea, let's look at the problems we have on earth. We see the approval of irrigation plans that, in their expansion, affect protected areas, the inefficient use we have made of water and a structural problem of drought in the country that continues to be ignored. In fact, the month of May was the hottest month of the last 92 years — almost a century! — and more than 97 % of the territory is currently in severe drought. There has also been a significant decrease in the percentage values of water in the soil throughout the territory, with emphasis being placed on the regions of the Northern Interior and the Centre and the Tejo Valley, where the values of the percentage of water in the soil are less than 20 %. We have a structural problem both from an environmental point of view and from the point of view of the use of water resources, but we are afraid that we will not try to renegotiate the Albufeira Convention. This will have inevitable impacts that are not limited to land use, combat climate change or combat major fires. It is essential to look both at the ocean and at these resources with a new look, a look that preserves them, a look that guarantees that we have not only concrete measures, such as the adoption of the ecocidal crime in our legal system, a proposal that the NAP will present, but also that we promote the creation of an international treaty for the protection of the oceans and the recognition of the crime of ecocidal by the United Nations.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u290	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u291	I conclude, Madam President. We are probably the last generation of voters who have the chance to fight the point of no return. We hope that at the end of this month, after receiving the United Nations Oceans Conference, we will indeed have a new look at the sea. It is the least we owe to the present and future generations, if we want to guarantee the right to their well-being and, above all, promote a fundamental principle of caution: to avoid causing damage to the environment.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u292	The honourable Member has three requests for clarification, how would you like to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u293	Together, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u294	To make the first request for clarification, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u295	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, the importance of the issue of knowing how to take care of our common heritage, specifically with regard to the oceans and the sea, inevitably refers us to a topic that has to do with the political responsibility that is irreclining in a country that has, as we so often say, one of the world's largest exclusive economic areas, and that has an increased responsibility to defend this unique heritage for the future. We cannot fail to observe — and the honourable Member has also mentioned this — the de-investment that has happened, that I associate not so much with the lack of money or options in the Budget, but at low rates of budgetary implementation, with funds that are not applied, although they are available over the years to the Government to be able to apply them in the monitoring, surveillance, in the fight against pollution, in the capacity to respond to the State services in that regard. It is necessary to reverse this concrete practice in addition to words, acts and, I would say, in addition to budget headings, that, in the background, they end up not being applied and executed. However, Madam President, very briefly, I cannot but raise a particular issue on this particular day, which, indeed, has to have the two feet firmly on the ground and which has to do with a silent environmental catastrophe that has affected not only biodiversity but also many people who have been at the door of the Ministry of Environment and Climate Action this afternoon. We are talking about the miners of Urgeirice and their families and a very serious situation that continues to respond by the political power, in which the concrete responsibility, after a resolution adopted in this House, in 2018, which is to be complied with by the Ministry of Environment and Climate Action and the structures to their responsibility, in relation to the requalification and decontamination of those dwellings...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u296	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u297	I will finish, Madam President. This is a right that those populations have to do justice, after so much suffering and lives lost following what happened in the mines of Urgeirice. So, Mrs Deputy, do you or do you not think it is time for us to actually look at biodiversity, to the planet as a whole, but also to the concrete people who are suffering and demand a different response from the state and government today? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u298	For a request for clarification, Mr Jorge Mendes of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u299	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, I would like to thank you for the debate today. It is a vast theme, because, really, the planet Earth faces several complex environmental problems, to which has not always been given a timely and structured response. And because we don't have a planet B, just a planet A, we urgently need to take structural and substantive measures to eliminate some of the serious problems we face. One of them, as I said, well, has to do with the extreme drought that Portugal goes through. Since October, practically, rainfall rates are very low, and this is visible not only in the areas of albueira, but also in the agricultural properties in general, with the growing need for water reinforcement. Therefore, the Social Democratic Party has presented a set of initiatives within the Committee on Environment and Energy, alerting the need to rapidly strengthen the correction of water losses, which, as you know, in public supply, are about 30 %. There is some support from the PRR, but policies need to be strengthened quickly in this regard. It is important to strengthen the use of waste water, which basically represents 1 % of treated water, which can and should be used in water systems, especially in cities, for gardens. There is also a great concern about the watersheds and the need for water for human supply in quantity and quality, as well as water in the agricultural sector. On these issues, it seems that the Ministry of Agriculture remains absent, waiting for the problem to arise, but then, yes, we will have another serious problem to solve. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, we have a government that has put water in many sectors, particularly as it has been clear today in health, but that it is unable to manage and store quality water in abundance for Portuguese. But the NAP, which is concerned about this, has been a great supporter of the government in recent years.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u300	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u301	So when the NAP says the government is still failing, the NAP is still failing because it has supported the Government in the last budgets. We therefore hope that, within the Committee on the Environment and Energy, it will support the proposals which the Democratic Social Party has recently presented in the field of the efficient management of water and water resources for human consumption and agriculture. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u302	Mr Ricardo Pinheiro of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u303	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, 97% of the Portuguese continental area is ocean. This reflected the way in which one of the main reforms of the Portuguese Recovery and Resilience Plan had to do with ecosystems, infrastructures and support in relation to the blue economy. This is such an important asset that Portugal has undertaken, in accordance with the European Environmental Protection Coalition, to implement certain measures, including the protection of biodiversity and marine resources, zero tolerance for illegal unreported and unregulated fishing and the fight against marine pollution. A short time ago, the Ministry of the Environment took up a severe fight against plastics, which, from Portugal, should not contribute to the increase of marine plastic on a global scale. We know that it is not the Portuguese sea that contributes to the increase in pollution by marine plastics, but in fact Portugal is concerned. The Government and the Ministry of the Environment are well aware of the need and importance for us to continue to preserve this strategic asset which is the Portuguese Sea. The governance of the oceans involves a conservation policy in relation to marine assets and biodiversity, but it should also reflect how we should look at the geological reserve potential that the Azorian sea and the Portuguese sea have, in particular, nickel and cobalt. It must reflect how, in this energy transition, we must clearly decide whether we want to store energy, how, and how we use national resources to do so. This concern of the Government also occurs in an extremely important policy measure, where Portugal assumes the purchase of a naval platform. This is a very well-worked exercise between political governance and the navy, which together decide to buy a naval platform from which research, scientific knowledge and also the cleaning of the Portuguese sea should be done. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u304	To answer, you have the floor to Mrs Inês Sousa Real of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u305	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I thank you for all the questions that have been raised. I shall begin with the PS Parliamentary Group. Mr President, it is with some concern that I see you putting mining on the table in deep sea, because, as it is public knowledge, this could have serious impacts, from the point of view of the ecological and environmental footprint, at ocean level. One thing is to use the energy of tides so that we can effectively combine this energy production with other methods, including photovoltaic panels and wind antennas. Different thing is we're here opening a Pandora box, through deep-sea mining. As we well know, the principle that is safeguarded today, and that I mentioned, is not to cause harm and, in the face of the risk that there may be an environmental impact, it is better not to do so. Looking at the sea as one of our last allies in the fight against climate change, let us hope that we do not, in fact, make it a last natural one, about to be destroyed once again by human action. On the other hand, they will always rely on the NAP to promote and encourage economic transition, the green economy, the blue economy, provided that it respects these environmental values and commitments. With regard to the issue raised by Mr Jorge Mendes of the PSD, I would like to begin by saying that the NAP does not support the government, but rather the causes that we represent in this Assembly of the Republic. When, within the budget, we have managed, through concrete measures, with concrete value, to approve money, these are our causes that we are supporting, in particular the environment. Otherwise, we would not have, for example, planned in the Budget today, the possibility of having an echoes, to remove pollution from the oceans, or the protection of species—such as the shark-anequim, which is in the process of extinction—or even the questions of plastic, which is one of the great devastating elements of our environment and the cause of environmental pollution. On the other hand, and we are accompanying concerns about water losses which, up to the financial point of view, have a significant impact — it is EUR 97 million, of course, that we will be here to assess and monitor the PSD proposals. This is because we have never had any ideological complex to follow the PSD whenever it is aligned with our values. We expect the PSD to do exactly the same. With regard to the question put by Mr Bruno Dias, we are effectively following the concern about the demands of miners in Urgeirice and their families. It is clear that we have to look at these mistakes of the past and of mining and the environmental impact not only, but also the social impact they have had, until climate justice has to be synonymous with social justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u306	The problem is the way things are done!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u307	We cannot allow past mistakes, which have been dragged to the present without any correction, to continue. We cannot allow the State to fail to respond to these families, nor to respond to what is necessary, i.e. to the recovery and preservation of the soils, where there was this activity. This only leads us to an even greater concern, when we look, for example, at projects of exploration and exploitation of lithium, over populations and over their dwellings, knowing the consequences it has, because history and recent history demonstrate this to us.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u308	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u309	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Colleagues: This week, many families went out to land, to spend the holidays on the beach or in the country, and many of our fellow citizens, when they arrived at the petrol bomb and wanted — if they could — to testify the tank of the car, opened their mouths of surprise because, although it was no longer new, they had to spend 100 € when, still relatively little time, they spent 50 €. Many of our fellow citizens know the causes of the rise in fuel prices and believe that they are far away, somewhere in Eastern Europe, in the war in Ukraine or beyond, in the oil fields of Siberia or the Far East of the Russian Federation. Many of them and of them, but many of us here too, in this House, ignore, and we ignore, that one of the roots of the problem is here, very close, in the Palace of Needs, in the form of a treaty, called the Energy Charter Treaty, which was signed in Lisbon in 1994, and that Portugal is the faithful depositary. This is a treaty that is a trace of history and that quickly became very dated. We were in the early 1990s and Western Europe wanted to make sure that it had easy access to fossil fuels from Eastern Europe, the Russian Federation and Central Asia. By negotiating this Treaty, he found it to guarantee this security of fuel supplies. However, very quickly it was realized that the opposite was happening: it was Western Europe that became hostage to the petro-oligarchic regimes of Central Asia and the Russian Federation and that from there it was also hostage of the oligarchic companies, such as Gazprom or Yukos or many other countries. The Russian Federation of Mr Vladimir Putin makes purely cynical use of this Treaty, because Russia is not a signatory to the Treaty, applies it provisionally, but uses companies, such as Gazprom and Yukos, to process States, so as to collect compensation that is then referred to the famous Vladimir Putin portfolios. These are compensations that are requested from States that wish, for example, to ban oil holes; they are sometimes threats to Parliaments, such as ours. For example, in France, the French Government intended to present a law to end oil exploration on French soil, but this law was withdrawn under pressure from oil companies. Why? Because this Treaty—as unfortunately several others—has arbitration clauses, through private courts, which, systematically or in most cases, decide in favour of oil companies and other companies trading in fossil fuels. Therefore, of course, when States intend to implement their climate goals, which they have also signed in the Paris Agreement, which was signed a lot later, they see themselves trapped in this 1994 treaty fossil, which does not give them all the flexibility to implement their green policies. So here we have a problem and a serious problem. Italy has already been prosecuted for wanting to ban oil holes. It has denounced the Treaty and, despite having denounced it and legally leaving it for 20 years, it will still apply in Italy. Other countries of the European Union, including France, Luxembourg and Belgium, are in favour of denouncing the Treaty. What about Portugal? Portugal, in the same Assembly of the Republic, approved the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 67 / 2021, from a text presented at the time by the Ecological Party « The Greens », which I welcome to have brought this issue here to debate – a resolution which has a very clear title: « Recommends that the Government reject a Treaty on the Charter of Energy incompatible with the environmental commitments and the interests of the population ». This resolution also recommended that the Government promote a broad debate on the Energy Charter Treaty in order to enable it to assess its real risks to the environment and national interests. The question is simple: has anyone ever given up for this broad debate? Of course not. What is the Government's position on this Energy Charter Treaty? The position is that it accompanies the efforts of the European Commission to modernise the Treaty. At the same time, these efforts are too timid and too ambitious. Too timid because, even if they did, they did not end up with the problem of private courts deciding against public interests. But they are too ambitious, because, in need of unanimity, it is obvious that neither these efforts to modernise the European Commission will be successful. It is therefore important to give the example and a resolution submitted by the Free House, which will shortly come to the vote in this House, to recommend that the Government take a position in favour of a collective denunciation of the Energy Charter Treaty, accompanying other European countries that have already done so and, if it appears impossible to move forward to this collective complaint, request the necessary legal consultations, to consider a unilateral denunciation of the agreement. As Portugal is the depositary country, this step would have a huge political symbolism. The Energy Charter Treaty is only one of the problems, but it is a major problem. It is the beginning of our dependence on regimes that, because they depend on their own fortunes achieved in fossil fuels, easily become oligarchic and authoritarian regimes. For a policy that is decarbonisation, but that is also a decentralisation in terms of energy production, a real energy democratisation that we need in Europe, a Portuguese and European energy sovereignty, this step must be taken and the Energy Charter Treaty must therefore be denounced.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u310	The Bureau noted the inclusion of four Members in order to make requests for clarification, to which the honourable Member will answer in blocks of two. To make the first request for clarification, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u311	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rui Tavares, on the issue that he brought to this plenary session, and before the obvious need for an energy transition to respond to climate change, the capitalist system and the main powers have promoted a logic to leave the free market, that is, to the power of the oligopolist and multinational economic groups, the resolution of these problems. CO2 emission licences (carbon dioxide), conceived as marketable goods, are part of a financial, speculative logic that condemns people from all over the world to underdevelopment, while illuminating the principals responsible for the emission history, provided they have money to buy such licences. The Energy Charter Treaty goes further in this logic of submitting to the interests of the economic groups, placing States in a position of absolute fragility in view of the economic interests of these multinationals, which may, under this Treaty, draw billions of euros in compensation, as has happened since its creation, associated with capitalist recovery in Eastern Europe. For the CFP, it is clear that capitalism is not green, just as it is not green the European Union's attempt to impose another mechanism for the marketing of the environment on a global scale, serving purposes of capitalist concentration in liberalised or liberalised sectors, ensuring that those who can pay continue to pollute and aggravate blackmail and asphyxiate on the development of third countries, excluding solutions that are truly required: on the one hand, a regulatory approach, which directly affects emissions, on the other hand, public control of strategic sectors, ensuring a planning with criteria of public interest, and not focused on profit, which can meet climate challenges. We therefore ask the Free, which often presents itself as one of the most faithful or sometimes the most faithful defender of the federalist and neoliberal logic that the European Union's environmental policy represents — certainly, always, neoliberal — whether or not it agrees... [[IL rice.]] [[L. Protests.]] But, I was saying, we are asking the Free whether or not we agree that without public control, without planning, without State intervention and leaving to the power of the oligopolies the answer, there is no solution to the problems that mankind faces in this matter. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u312	For a request for clarification, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u313	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Rui Tavares for bringing this subject to debate. In the past, the NAP presented a draft resolution which specifically meant that the Government should abandon the Energy Charter Treaty, because, as we know, there are high costs here, in particular with the possibility of large oil tankers asking for exorbitant compensation to States for the towing of the excuse for the decarbonisation and the implementation of the carbon neutrality and climate law. However, we also know that, apart from these high values, there is no evidence so far that the Treaty has actually contributed to this decarbonisation or to facilitate investment in reducing energy poverty — a subject that is quite expensive to us — and even less investment in this decarbonisation. What we are asking is whether, in fact, we agree with the NAP's position that, until it falls, we should say, accession to this Treaty, there is indeed a limitation on the use of arbitration, because, in addition to the opacity of arbitration, in which we know that the State is always losing, there is a complete opacity which, in our view, is absolutely incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u314	To reply, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u315	Madam President, I thank Mr Bruno Dias and Mr Inês Sousa Real for the questions. Mr Bruno Dias, the problem of this market is not only not to be free, it is to be a protected market, i.e. more than a deregulated market, it is regulated in favour of the interests of large oil companies and, therefore, it is important that the politically organized community—and what is probably different from us is that, for me, the politically organized community is not only within borders, for which we can legislate at national level, but also the one beyond the borders of the nation state, which we can also build at European level—put us in this.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u316	The problem is who puts your hand, it's not where!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u317	It is not by chance that most of the countries that are rich in fossil fuels are also authoritarian regimes. It is not because fossil fuels choose to go to authoritarian regimes, it is because fossil fuels, their concentration and the ease with which they are monopolized help create oligarchies. And the truth is that since we signed this Energy Charter Treaty we are financing authoritarian regimes, in particular the wars of Mr Putin. Now, and also taking advantage of replying to Mrs Inês Sousa Real, to leave the Energy Charter Treaty takes time — it takes 20 years. And because of this, other governments probably did not want to do so. But if we had denounced the Energy Charter Treaty when we, indirectly in the European Union, started financing Mr Putin's first war, which was the war in Chechnya, we would have already left the Energy Charter Treaty today, we would no longer be financing the war in Ukraine. As long as we do not denounce this Treaty, what happens is that we are leaving the next governments and the next national parliaments and the rest of the European Union tied hands and feet. Therefore, I also thank the NAP for taking initiatives on this in the past and hope that we will be able to work during this Parliament, here in Parliament, because something has changed: today, even the big parties are aware of the mistake that has been made in signing this Treaty, there are only a few who are pioneers and Portugal risk to stay behind in a movement that is already born at European level, in which some countries have already left the Treaty, others want to leave and cannot understand what the position of the Portuguese Government is right now. I hope that the Assembly of the Republic will take a step towards this clarification by supporting the Free Resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u318	Mr Nuno Fazenda of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u319	Madam President, I would like to begin by greeting Mr Rui Tavares on the subject he brings here today, a relevant subject, which has to do with energy. On this subject, the truth is that Portugal has been in the leadership of climate action. He used the term 'pioneer' here and, in fact, Portugal was a pioneer when he presented the first roadmap for carbon neutrality in the world and when he made climate commitments. Portugal was also a pioneer because it was the Portuguese Presidency that approved the European Climate Law. Portugal has been on the front line of climate action. Portugal, for example, is 5. the country in electricity production from renewable energy in the European Union and 60 % of electricity produced in Portugal originates in renewables. That is why the European Commission considers Portugal to be one of the countries that is in a better position to meet the climate goals. So, with regard to energy, the wager on renewables has been and is a winning bet, which must be continued, and is being pursued, in particular in combating climate change, by energy autonomy, which Mr here very well mentioned and which is important to ensure, and also because it provides less costs for families and businesses. That is why the climate transition, energy transition is a priority of the PRR, are a priority of the State budget, are a priority of the Government, in particular with the warnings that are open for the decarbonization of industry, with EUR 715 million, for the most sustainable buildings, with warnings for support for families, businesses, IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity), trade and hotel, with the commitment in hydrogen and also with other initiatives in the field of support for wind and solar energy, as is the case with auctions. These are measures and incentives in the right direction. Therefore, Mr President, without prejudice to the importance of the Energy Charter Treaty which brings us here, and which, as you say, is a matter to be resolved at 20 years ago, I raise two short-term questions. The first is whether these measures on renewables go in the right direction and the second is whether the historic agreement which the Government of Spain and the Government of Portugal were able to celebrate and approve with the European Commission, which allows Portuguese families and consumers to be protected from increasing energy costs, was also an important agreement for Portuguese and families. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u320	Mr Hugo Carvalho has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u321	Madam President, Mr Rui Tavares, I will try, contrary to what has been done so far, not to throw ideology at the problem that has brought here or run away from it. I brought here a treaty that is from the 1990s, it is practically my age - so historical revisionism is a complicated exercise for me in this matter - which is, as a treaty, concluded between two parts. And there were parts of this Treaty, at the time the economies in transition, which called the West to invest in the energy expansion to the east of the European Union, to get rid of the energy dependence that they had from third parties that were not so interesting—he well knows who they are. This was mainly about securing investments. I think it's no crime, if we call someone to invest, secure investment, have safeguards that that person, company, country or state might have safeguarded their investment. The honourable Member is dealing with this as if there was a bad deal here that prevents decarbonisation, which prevents the deconditioning of nuclear power, which prevents the closure of coal, a sort of airship carrier that involves everything, hinders everything. That's not true, sir. Do you want to close the coal? Close the coal! Do you want to close the oil? Close the oil! But commitments are met. What I do not like to see is my Parliament and my country always with a discussion that the left loves, which is to break contracts. Come here — today it was Mr Deputy, tomorrow it will be the Left Block, then the PCP — and they say: « We will break the commitments with which the country has committed itself. We're gonna break the contracts and the rest doesn't matter. Do not keep on seeking. ” I do not want to see that again, I regret to see this happening, because it is possible to make a renewable path — which, in fact, is done with intensive capital investment, as you know, and we cannot be here saying that we have broken contracts and then we will call more private investors to come here to put renewable energy plants. You can't do both! Now, in order not to see a historian go against history, he gave him a different story, because here next door, in Spain, when Rajoy's government broke all contracts with the renewable energy producers that he had in his country unilaterally, it was exactly this treaty that protected them, and still today they are working, because otherwise they were not. If you want to reform the treaty, I have to say yes, even because the Treaty is almost older than I am; if you want to break it, I always think it's a bad idea. So what I ask you with all this is: which of the two do you want? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u322	To reply, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u323	Madam President, thank you to Mr Nuno Fazenda and Mr Hugo Carvalho for the questions. Maybe I'll start with the end, because the question is very direct and it's very easy to answer. Breaking the Treaty or complying with the Treaty? Which of the hypotheses does Mr. Hugo Carvalho think that I defended there, when he said that he himself has a complaint clause and that then he has to comply with the time out of the contract? Complying with the contract, even when it has complaints clauses and to get out of the contract itself, is not breaking it, it is fulfilling it. What you are defending is something that in my village was called "business to be lost always done", that is to say, to stay in the contract even when it reveals itself dated and harms us. It is true that it is a contract of PSD time, it is true that it is a contract of time of Prof. Cavaco Silva, but we no longer live in the 90s.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u324	Not even in the village!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u325	And what happens is that, since then, what this contract has ensured — a treaty that is not between two parties, I apologize, is between 55 parties — was the monopoly of power not only in the Russian Federation but in Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, Turkmenistan, and also prevented a genuine diversification of energy sources in Europe, a decentralization of energy production that this energy sovereignty to Europe, which is what we are complaining about today. So when someone comes to say that "for 20 years, perhaps we should have already denounced him", I would say that we can denounce him today by fulfilling the contract, by complying with international law. Don't say that this is breaking the contract, it's simply not wanting to continue to be damaged. With regard to Mr Nuno Fazenda, of course we are all happy when Portugal is a pioneer in anything and we are pleased with the fact that the European Union recognizes that the Iberian Peninsula is, for certain purposes, an island of energy, allowing energy prices to be lowered. But let's see: being a pioneer on these issues is also being able to go against other European governments or against the European Commission, even if it costs a little bit to the diplomacy of small steps by Mr Prime Minister, it is the first to say that this Treaty does not serve, it is the first to put other ideas on the table. Also in reply to Mr Hugo Carvalho, why do international investors not do what we do—any one of us—what is going to the normal courts? Why do they have to have special courts, which almost always decide—more than 60 % of the time—in favour of them? So, if we need international courts, we create public courts at international level where they do not have a protected forum, and we also propose — and there the Portuguese Government can be a pioneer — the establishment of an international tribunal against environmental crimes, the creation of a legal definition, internationally protected, of the crime of ecocidalism. That's right, it's being a pioneer. It is not just to be a pioneer in things that are pleasant, it is sometimes to have the courage to go against the current and be in front of the policies that matter, decades away. And that, unfortunately, the Portuguese Government does only when it is pleasant, it does not do when it sometimes costs a few mellows in the major European capitals.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u326	So we move on to the second point of our agenda, with the appreciation of Petition No 199 / XIV / 2. a ( Sylvia Marlene Carneiro da Silva et al.) — Internal mobility contest, of Bill Nos 73 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Ensure the inclusion of all schedules in the internal mobility procedure of the internal competition of teachers and 106 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Assign cost aid to primary and secondary teachers who are displaced, in general, and to the Resolution Project No 80 / XV / 1. a (BE) — By reviewing the recruitment and mobility scheme of basic and secondary teaching staff. We have several subscribers of this petition present, which the Bureau welcomes. To submit Bill No. 73 / XV / 1. the Parliamentary Group of the CFP has the floor of Mrs Diana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u327	Mr. President and Mrs. Members: Of course, I would like to begin, on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, by congratulating the more than 8700 petitioners who have subscribed to this petition, expressing to the Assembly of the Republic its position on the internal mobility contest and also on the injustices it has brought to the teachers. There are lack of teachers in schools, there is a reality of instability, precariousness, low wages, limitations and obstacles to career progression. Many teachers will never reach the top of the career as their right is, there was time of service provided that it was withdrawn administratively and that it ceased to count for teachers to be able to progress in the career and may have wage valuation, in fact, an administrative option that PS and PSD have combined to guarantee. There is a reality of socio-laboral devaluation of the teaching career that has been dragging for many years. There are difficulties in rejuvenation of the profession. There is a lack of attractiveness for this profession exactly in the pursuit of this wage devaluation and career devaluation that has happened. These are problems that are felt every day by teachers in schools, which the PCP has denounced and also for which the PCP has submitted proposals. These realities include injustices that are also generated by the internal mobility contest, as is pointed out in the petition that today is discussed in the Assembly of the Republic. We remember that in the year 2021 / 2022, and without any amendments to the legal regime in force, the PS Government decided by a notice published in March 2021, and after the start of negotiations with the teachers' representative organisations, to insist on amending procedures relating to the type of time to be considered for the purposes of internal mobility competition which had been applied in the previous years. The Government considered only the full hours for internal mobility purposes, insisting on an option already defeated in this Parliament. We also recall the disastrous consequences of such an option at the 2017 internal mobility contest: many teachers were placed hundreds of miles away from their areas of residence and from the schools in which they were teaching. In addition to the personal and professional disorganization that this amendment entailed, many teachers were confronted with the fact that others, less graduates, eventually obtained placement in much closer schools and for which they had also been candidates. In fact, this situation led to indignation and led to strong protests by teachers and educators who were affected by the government's option. The CFP considers that the Government's insistence on an option that in the past caused injustices among teachers, which caused indignation and even rejected by the Assembly of the Republic, only disturbs the tranquillity of schools and the educational system, brutally disrupting the lives of hundreds or even thousands of teachers and educators. Considering that this is a path that has only caused problems to teachers, the CFP presents a proposal to respond to this situation. For this reason, we propose the opening of an in-house competition in advance for teachers and should be considered in the context of this same internal mobility contest all full and incomplete hours. This proposal ends with the injustices resulting from the wrong choices that the PS Government insists on taking in this matter. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u328	To submit Bill No 106 / XV / 1. a ( CH), Mr Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro, from the Czech Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u329	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the civic matrix of the Arrival, society and institution are placed in opposite fields. Society is the open space of social and political systems, it is the open space without hierarchies and without restrictions. It's the space where everything can be reviewed, negotiated, altered. It is the space of activisms and social movements. Society is the unquestionable place of democracy. The institution only makes sense if it's the opposite. It is a closed space around a specific social mission. The institution is reserved to inside agents and is only functional when it is managed from inside out. Finally, the viability and quality of institutions depend on hierarchy, authority and order. The left has never been an enemy of institutional values. The arrive is the only right, because don't disguise the reverse. We value hierarchy, authority and order only within institutions, we do not accept them for society. [[Congrats from the CH.]] No one has ever seen or will ever see democracy being challenged. We criticise only the serious failure of the institutions. But there are Members in this Parliament who use expressions such as 'democratic opposition' and 'democratic right'. If such expressions are intended to exclude the Arrival, who does so is a social propagator of ignorance, falsehood, mental pathology of our species. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS, PCP and BE rice.]] The arrival will not allow the left and the left culture to escape the institutional hecatomb that they have created and fed. She has reached families, hospitals, schools, justice, universities, security forces, armed forces, companies, firefighters, among other institutions. The Church has resisted with great clarity, but practically solitary. This sovereignty body is an institution like the others. Parliament is a closed space, it has a specific, exclusive social mission, which is to legislate. Members are elected with very specific rules. We operate isolated from society, protected by very strict barriers from those who are not Members. We have own hierarchies, procedures and vocabulary. Parliament is self-governing from inside out. The viability and health of all other institutions depend on the very principles mentioned here, but a large part of the Members behave as though the institutional principles were an exclusive of them, a privilege of Parliament. Politics today is almost synonymous with hysterical and sterilizing intrusions in other institutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u330	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u331	Are you all right?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u332	The destruction of the Service of Foreigners and Borders is just another typical tough portrait. Tauromachy is another case of the pathological narcissism of the current political class, and could also talk about football. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is so dysfunctional a political system that imposes specific values of the institutions to society as a whole, values such as hierarchy, authority and order—so we call it dictatorship to salazarism, and very well—as is dysfunctional a political system that imposes specific values of society to institutions, such as democracy or activism. Our current regime is a coughing up democratic totalitarianism. That's enough to impoverish the country. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u333	For God's sake!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u334	It is the educators and teachers who can reverse the marasm of our institutions. But for this, teachers and schools have to stop being belly renters of activists and other social movements.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u335	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u336	I'm done now, Madam President. The arrival will not rest until the teaching is free from indiscipline and bureaucracy. Indiscipline in the intimacy of classrooms corrupts, for generations, values that ensure the viability of all our institutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u337	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u338	I'm done now, Madam President. The bureaucracy in schools models the prostitution of social institutions by political institutions. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u339	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude. You've been running out of time.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u340	This is the framework of the bill that the arrival today presents cost aid between 75 and 220 € to teachers of basic and secondary education who are displaced. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u341	To present the Resolution Project No 80 / XV / 1. a ( BE) has the floor to Mrs Joana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u342	Madam President, thank you. Returning to the theme that brings us here, which is the petition on the mobility contest of teachers, I wanted to begin by complimenting the petitioners and the petitioners and lamenting that they had to attend this, teachers and teachers who, already over the years, have been familiar with and whose personal and professional dramas we also know, since they founded what became known as the Group of Lesados Teachers of 25 August. These teachers feel hurt because, being teachers linked to a framework of pedagogical areas, there was an amendment, made from a certain point of view by the previous government, which said that they could only compete for full hours and not for incomplete hours, as had happened so far. Having been linked to far-off educational area frames, these teachers used a resource that was perfectly normal at the time, the mobility contest, so that they could get closer to home, thus benefiting from their professional graduation and their seniority. The first question we have to put here is this: we are talking about teachers of the table, some with 20 or more years of service, who organized their lives taking into account a set of rules of the competition of teachers who had been stable up there and who, from a certain moment, ceased to be stable, forcing the disorganization of the life of these teachers. Abstractly, the principle of management behind this change can be a correct exercise: the hired teachers stay with the incomplete schedules, the teachers of the table are with the complete schedules. The problem is that these teachers do not compete in an abstract country, nor do they compete in an abstract education system. They compete in an education system in which precariousness is such that teachers compete for the whole country—in fact, the system tries to compete for the whole country—and it ends up causing them to bond far away from home and that they have to try the approach by other ways. It is a system of contests that, since it is a blanket of clippings, is creating a set of arbitrariness and injustices, so that many of the teachers who, with less graduation, are placed in incomplete hours, soon on the next recruitment reserve, see your schedule being completed with a few more hours or have other types of assigned tasks, because everyone knows that what is not lacking in schools is things to do. It is this layer of injustice, which devalues professional graduation and creates instability in schools, which we want to correct. The project we present today is not new and does not just intend to correct this problem. The aim is that once and for all the government will sit at the table with the unions and do what it is responsible for, which is to solve the problems and injustices of teachers' contests — in part, the reason for the problem of the lack of teachers in schools. As long as you do not look at the value of career and the justice that is due to these teachers as one of the biggest problems that will cause the degradation of public school, we will have no solutions. We have discussed this situation regarding health and we are realizing that it is the lack of appreciation of its professionals that is leading to the degradation of the SNS. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u343	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u344	Madam President, I begin by greeting the nearly 9000 petitioners, including those who are here in this debate, but not without saying, Madam President, that when we think we have heard everything, we have not heard anything. In fact, we have heard of prostitution of institutions under political power and ideological narcissism. Mr President, we have all been elected here and have represented our mandate with as much dignity as possible, at the service of the people and in an open house, so we must ask ourselves if we hear correctly when we hear such nonsense as those heard in this House. [[CH protests.]] [[BE's laughs.]] On the subject that brings us here, it is a serious issue, which affects the precariousness of teaching, an injustice that the Government has persisted in maintaining, in particular in the competition for the year 2021 / 2022. It seems to us that it is indeed a defeated option by considering only full hours for the purposes of internal mobility and then refusing to review the recruitment and mobility regime. The NAP will follow the proposals that have been put forward and believes that it does not really make sense not only to remove thousands of teachers by virtue of what is a disincentive to the profession, but also by the fact that we now have an ageing of these professionals. We have over 100 000 students who are estimated to have no teachers next year and, when we talk about the changes needed for the next generations, especially in education, we cannot forget that teachers are central elements of education that have to be valued. That is why we are going to follow the initiatives presented here.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u345	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Isabel Santos of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u346	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The matter of the petition we are discussing today has been one of the priorities of our political action, which is reflected in the State budget for 2022 and marks the way for a sustained work to prepare for the future, guaranteeing schools the professionals needed to carry out their mission. The procedures for the recruitment of teaching staff are fully in line with the legislation on which this matter is governed. The exclusive distribution of complete hours in internal mobility aims to ensure the correct use of human teaching resources as well as the efficiency of investments made in the human resources of the educational system. This is an action aimed at ensuring a rationalized management of the human resources of the Public Administration and incorporating itself into a broader set of measures aimed at adapting the action of the State to existing needs. This procedure was legitimized, as it is well known, by the judgment of the South Central Administrative Court dated 16 April 2020, from which it is clear that the need to adopt the solution that best serves the educational system based on adequate management of teaching human resources and the proper use of public money, which goes through the provision of full hours in the internal mobility contest. The judgment further makes it clear that the rules applied to the 2018 / 2019 anticipated internal competition, to which the petition refers, resulting from the amendment of Decree-Law No 15 / 2018 of 7 March, and introduced into the Assembly of the Republic, were restricted to that concrete contest and not to any other, thus constituting no interpretative standard. In the same vein, it should be said that no information was omitted to the candidates, since the Ministry of Education gave public notice of the solution, which was not adopted only in 2020 because the judgment was given on a date following the notice of opening the competition and the Ministry decided on the basis of maintaining the stability of the procedures, the expectations of teachers and the completion of the four-year cycle following the opening of the last competition, thus respecting the imperatives of justice and good faith. The appreciation of professionals working in schools and, in particular, the creation of conditions for the stability of teaching function, assume an irreplaceable role in promoting the quality of public school, in the stability of pedagogical projects and in improving the quality of learning. The Government's intention to revise the model of recruitment of teachers is known, which has already been transmitted to the trade union structures of the sector, in order to enhance stability in career access and faster linkage to groups and ungrouped schools. This review will have as its main objectives the creation of a legislative framework that allows greater flexibility in the management of teaching human resources, the creation of conditions for the setting of teachers to school groupings and non-grouped schools, the change of authorised qualifications for the recruitment, the change of time intervals for the hiring and the revision of the geographical scope of the current teaching area frameworks. Collective bargaining procedures with trade union structures aim to ensure the promotion of the stability of the placement of teachers, as well as to meet the real needs felt. As you can see, the Ministry of Education is attentive and committed to finding the best solutions for the needs of teachers and their irregular distribution by the country—most felt in some recruitment groups in some parts of the country—, a situation that will only be resolved with solutions that allow greater agility in the management of human resources, which should be included in the new legal framework to negotiate with trade unions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u347	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Emília Apolinário, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u348	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I welcome the petitioners of this initiative in the person of your first subscriber. Their claims remain current and have supported the announced difficulties that are already felt in recruiting teachers and that will worsen. At the end of the second period, about 30 000 students were left without a teacher in at least one discipline. The Minister acknowledges that at the end of this school year, there will be 7000 students and probably 110 000 students in the next year. Education such as health—we have seen today—live times of emergency. The OECD says what we already know: in the European context, Portuguese teachers are the most worn out, the most useless bureaucrats fill, victims of a work organisation that hurts them. teachers cannot be asked for more bureaucratic tasks, because that is where they spend a lot of energy every year, leaving them little time to teach and to devote themselves to work with their students, which is their primary function. What other profession has faced with job mobility for 20 years? Does it or does it not make sense that there are incomplete hours for teachers of the board to whom it is paid entirely? Teacher contests are a blanket of flaps and are far away from serving our education and our school, but this problem has not merited the proper concern on the part of the Ministry, which elucidates structural issues with palliative measures. The PSD does not accept appreciable measures that boost the problems, complicate the system, do not benefit the educational activity, do not dignify teachers, generate injustices and injustice and end up in the courts. It was in this sense that the PSD presented the Resolution Project No. 1122 / XIV / 2. the, which was approved, but had the votes against the PS. The management of this dossier is the mirror of the socialist government action: fills the mouth with the public school, but only changes the strictly necessary, deceives the structural problems, compromises the future of Portuguese education. Now that there is a lack of teachers, let us look at the problems without demagogy, because it is in the teacher that hopes for better education and the PSD will say « present». [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u349	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Castro of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u350	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Applicants: Year after year, the problems of recruitment and mobility of teaching staff are discussed. Year after year, teachers continue to warn about various injustices in relation to competitive procedures, which distort the professional graduation of teachers. Year after year, we have disgruntled, revolted, depressed teachers and less and less teachers on the asset. The reality of education in our country is characterized by instability in school and everyone suffers, from students to teachers. Plenary after Plenary, we talk about education and teaching policies, but there is a word that often fails and is forgotten: children. It's just that they have to be at the center of politics. Children never cease to be the future of a country and we can never forget this in these debates. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u351	The government has failed in this and has still failed to safeguard the compatibility between professional and personal life of teachers — the petition speaks about it. The internal mobility competition would also help for these purposes. In August 2021, when the lists of placements of internal mobility contests were known, it was found that more than 13 000 teachers changed from school. The schools are not yet equipped with the tables they need and the directors still have no right to give a word on this matter. There are bodies with responsibilities in the field of teaching or teaching, in the guidance and follow-up of students, who continue without a word on this subject, so we must insist on the position of the Liberal Initiative in which recruitment contests must pass through more autonomy of schools. The system is sunk into bureaucracy, students lose weeks of classes while waiting for the replacement of teachers who have to accommodate incomplete schedules, run in search of last-minute solutions and the instability of seeking compensation. This shouldn't be the case. Once again, we need reforms, we need ambition. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u352	Portugal also needs a policy of collecting constant data, not only in emergency situations, about retirements, teachers with subjects to teach, leave professions, forecasting the needs of teachers by disciplines. We have, in various respects, been alerted to the need for data for the foundation of public policies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u353	We have to anticipate contingencies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u354	Also in education this is a problem, so we must respond to the challenges and problems in a timely manner, without damaging the educational system. There is no reason for Portugal to continue in this situation except for lack of political action, for lack of vision, for lack of reform. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u355	With regard to the concrete initiatives carried out by this petition, I wanted to leave three last notes. First, it seems to us that the inclusion of all full and incomplete hours in internal mobility procedures is of the greatest relevance, and we will therefore follow this initiative. In the rest, there are far-reaching measures that, once again, we insist, may on time seem to solve specific cases, but continue to destruct and not reform.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u356	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u357	I shall conclude, Madam President. On travel compensation, this is once again a relevant subject with a bad solution. Unique, centralized solutions that take the whole at the same time are never good solutions. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u358	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Madureira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u359	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, we have said again what we have been announcing in these discussions, that the current educational moment in our country is worrying, as it is worrying — and we have seen it this afternoon in this House — the current moment of health in Portugal. These are two areas where the government has systematically failed. The PS very much appreciates what it considers to be advances in education, but does an opposition to the past, when what is intended is that the government is looking to the future. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u360	Let's go to the facts: there was no vision and no vision of the strategy. The government has not ruled for almost seven years. The teachers continued to grow old, but they still hold on to non-essential tasks. It is unacceptable to change the recruitment system, which no longer corresponds to almost anyone, nor what is needed. You have to change it! The government that demonstrates the ability to involve all partners, assumes coherence and boldness in the proposals, breaks taboos in the autonomy of schools and refocuses the teachers' mission. In 2019, the Government promised that it would study a model of recruitment and placement of teachers with a view to introducing improvements that would ensure greater stability of the teaching body, reducing the size of the teaching area frameworks. He also promised, among other things, that he would create incentives to bet on teaching careers and to develop teaching functions. Buying? No, he didn't, but in 2022 he promised again. The last multiannual invitation to tender was another missed opportunity. The Minister talks about paradigmatic changes and we also hear today that he talks about intentions, but what teachers, schools, students, families really need — what the country needs and what it claims — is that the profession is dignified, that students have the lessons expected and that teachers stop walking around the house behind the back. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u361	Recruitment is a blanket that can no longer stand remedies. This minister happens to the previous one and seems to have nothing new to offer. Or rather...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u362	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u363	I will finish, Madam President. What we have heard from the PS bench is that the Minister is paying attention, but more than paying attention, action is needed. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u364	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u365	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have often discussed in this House, and we have to discuss in the whole country, how we can value not only the profession of teacher, but also vocation. I believe that part of the answer is simple and obvious, starting from this debate, that is, treating well who is already a teacher, who, for many years and decades, walked with the house on his back, who did not have full hours because, often, there were not. That is, not changing the rules in the middle of the game, which is what is happening. No one is against — I believe that petitioners and petitioners are not either — that there are more competitions for full hours, but, in this case, that justice is done to those who have had incomplete schedules during all these years, so that these full hours can be applied. The Free will not only accompanies the concerns of the petitioners, as will be followed by a proposal from the CFP to this end, voting in favour of it. Last week we also went further with other Members and Members of this House, in order to open up more definitive competitions, allowing those who have been teaching three years ago to have definite places. [[Meanwhile, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u366	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u367	I conclude, Mr. President. If we don't do it and if society doesn't see what we're doing it, then it becomes much more difficult to fight against the aging and precariousness of the teaching body. Thank you for your petition.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u368	For an intervention, Mrs. Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u369	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I want to make it clear that what is at stake is that the government knows that, with this change to the competition, it will force thousands of teachers who have their lives in the stabilized school. And do it as another contingency plan to solve the lack of teachers, which is structural. The problem is that those who are going to pay for this contingency plan are the teachers, who will not have support for travel, to change their lives and to change their homes. That is what needs to be corrected. As for PSD, nice words, but I think all teachers still remember when PSD did not allow it—it has plummeted! — the recovery of service time, which was one of the issues that would enable the appreciation of time and teaching career. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Protests by PSD Members Carla Madureira and Maria Emília Apolinário.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u370	We thus conclude point 2 of our agenda and move on to point 3, which is from the assessment of Petition No 612 / XIII / 4. a (Margarida Quintela et al.) — Against the end of the current Yellow Line of the metro of Lisbon, together with the Resolution Projects Nos 69 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Immediate suspension of works of the metro line of Lisbon, 52 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government comply with Article 282. the State Budget Act 2020 and suspends the construction process of the circular line of the metro of Lisbon and 84 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government revise the draft circular line of the Lisbon metro rejected by Parliament and evolution to the link line. To present the Resolution Project No 69 / XV / 1. a ( BE) has the floor to Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u371	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Petitioners: Request No 612 / XIII / 4. the, which we discussed, was handed over to Parliament on 20 March 2019. The discussion takes place today, on June 14, 2022, and I want to apologize to the petitioners for this delay and thank you for your persistence. But with the same justice, I want to tell you, as well as all the people who oppose this circular metro line in Lisbon, that Parliament does not stop doing what it should. Even in 2019, following draft resolutions of various parties, including the Left Block, the Assembly of the Republic adopted a resolution recommending the suspension of works on the circular line of the Lisbon metro. In March 2020, a law of the Assembly of the Republic — not any law, but the law of the Budget of the State of the Assembly of the Republic — ordered the Government to suspend the construction process. This is not a detail: the Government has deliberately disregarded a law of the Assembly of the Republic and has done so with the complicity of the President of the Republic! And on behalf of what, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? What exceptional merits can this project lead the Government to overrun the law of the Assembly of the Republic, the will of several municipalities, the will of municipal assemblies, the challenge of residents and activists of all the political colors except the Socialist Party? Why does the government insist on literally burying hundreds of millions of euros on a line that does not serve the population of the Lisbon Metropolitan Area? For all the people who use the Yellow Line north of Campo Grande — some of the busiest stations in Lisbon, like Odivelas — life will be harder, including paths with more changes and longer. For those who come from outside the center, such as Loures, life will continue to be so hard, with long lines of traffic and more pollution. by abdicating to expand the metro line to areas where people move to Lisbon every day to work, the government made a choice, which is that of the metro of tourism. The government chose the metro of tourism, closed on itself, without serving who needs it, who deserves it, who works it and who lives in the metropolitan area of Lisbon. What we do today is to reiterate the position of always, because it has not lost reason over time. If we are faced with a finished fact, it is because the government wanted it to. The blame lies with the government, which did not respect Parliament, did not respect society, did not respect municipal chambers. What we now demand from the Government is that it offer and give that respect, not only to the Assembly of the Republic, but also to petitioners and civil society, which requires the suspension of these works and the modification of the metro plan of the metropolitan area of Lisbon. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u372	To present the Resolution Project No 52 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) has the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u373	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the more than 4000 citizens, including those who are in this Assembly of the Republic and who have once again come to defend the preservation of the Yellow Line. Cities and metropolitan areas must be made for the citizens who live in them, for whom they have to work, for those who want to visit us, but cannot be held hostage by tourism and, less so, a project that clearly does not serve the interests of those who have to travel daily. Just look at the project of the circular line, which will force the passengers of Odivelas, Amixoeira or Lumiar to change line to reach the University City or the Marquis de Pombal, and have to do at least twice if they want to reach the National Park. Adding to this, to the junction of the Green Line and the Yellow Line in one, this project will fill even more the metro cars, already overcrowded, and the circular line will be synonymous with travel with more discomfort and incentive to use the car in Lisbon. As we know, daily we have about half a million cars circulating in the metropolitan area and entering the city of Lisbon, with the consequent increase in air and sound pollution. In 2020, by the NAP, a measure was entered in the State budget, which provided for the suspension of the construction process of the Lisbon metro circular line. We cannot ignore that the City Council of Lisbon also approved a motion expressing its position in favour of this same suspension and, once again, the Government has ignored it olympically. The impacts of the circular line are direct on daily life and on the mobility of cities, in particular the Lisbon Metropolitan Area, on the quality of life of people, who, as all studies tell us, when they have these barriers—in particular the transhipment— end up not leaving the car at home and bring it to the cities. Above all, the will of the Assembly of the Republic, which was unequivocal, and the will of the municipality of Lisbon have been disregarded by the Government. That is why, in keeping with the will of the petitioners, we present this draft resolution, which once again fights for the suspension of the circular line.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u374	To present the Resolution Project No 84 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), Mr António Proa.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u375	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I should like to begin by welcoming the 4366 petitioners who have subscribed to today's petition in the line of previous petitions that have brought together tens of thousands of citizens who have expressed concerns, criticisms and disagreements about the wrong option that the Government has taken in relation to the expansion of the metropolitan of Lisbon, namely the creation of the circular line, which amputates the continuity of the metro network from the northern part of Lisbon and the metropolitan area, harming many thousands of users of this transport. The PSD welcomes citizens and cannot fail to regret that this petition, which entered the Assembly of the Republic in 2019, has taken more than three years until it deserves attention from this plenary. The delay is regrettable, but it is more serious because the suspension of the works that is defended—and well! — it has ceased to be realistic in the face of the progress that these have had in the meantime. In fact, reality reveals that, even if this petition had been appreciated earlier, as it should, it would not change anything. Today, after demonstrating the error of the circular line, after bringing together the criticisms of all sectors — technicians, academics, academics, politicians, politicians and citizens — after disregarding the deliberations of the Assembly of the Republic, we can say that nothing has moved the government in its teimosia to move forward with the solution of the circular line of the metro of Lisbon. However, the scenario remains. The Lisbon metropolitan circular line, as expected, will undermine the accessibility of citizens who enter Lisbon daily to work, particularly from the northern area of the metropolitan area, and compromises the expansion of the network to that area. Today, we are faced with a wrong solution, but already in progress, the reversal of which would be financially inappropriate. The PSD notes with concern the irresponsible way in which the Government has conducted the Lisbon metropolitan expansion process and, in general, the performance of the company. In addition to the poor option in relation to the circular line, there are daily problems in the operation of the subway which call into question the appropriate service to populations who should serve, with service failures, failure to comply with frequencies and inability to respond to demand. In the face of the degradation of the Lisbon Metropolitan service, the Government was unable to safeguard the interest of users in a timely manner. Only now, already late, announces the reinforcement of workers that long ago was necessary.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u376	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u377	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The process concerning the creation of the circular line of the Metropolitan of Lisbon started badly. From then on, as regards the priority in expansion, which should have been for the western part of Lisbon. Then, in relation to the design of the line, with an evaluation between alternatives that were not comparable in the objectives or assumptions, so the result was addicted to the start. Perhaps that is why the studies have been hidden until possible. The whole process was wrong. It was a bad decision of the use of public money, was not transparent, ignored the autarchs, did not hear the populations and is technically wrong, as all experts have shown. Or rather, as all have demonstrated, except those hired to defend this solution, having disrespected until the deliberations of the Assembly of the Republic. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The circular line, as planned, does not serve the population. On the contrary, as has already been demonstrated, by sectioning a section of the current Amarela Line, turning it off from direct access to the center of Lisbon, the designed solution affects tens of thousands of users—of Telleiras, Lumiar, Odivelas and, indirectly, from the entire northern area of the metropolitan area— obliging them to a transhipment in Campo Grande. However, technically, a transhipment is a deterrent to the use of public transport, encouraging the choice for the use of the car. The draft resolution presented by the PSD aims to contribute to a solution that can mitigate the poor option of the circular line for the population of the northern part of Lisbon and the entire metropolitan area. The solution of the link line, as we defend, is technically studied, responds to the argument of the difference of frequencies necessary along the line and guarantees, without more works and on the option already underway, maintaining the connection of the entire network to the center of the city without transhipments, benefiting users. The PSD maintains criticism of the option taken by the government, but aims to contribute to a realistic solution that can mitigate the disturbances created. I'm finishing up, Mr. President. The PSD reaffirms its position in defending the expansion of the Lisbon metro network to the west, in meeting the flows of people in the neighbouring areas not yet served by this means of transport, in a process that is duly planned, technically sustained, with public participation and with respect to the position of the authorities, avoiding making the same mistakes in this process. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u378	For an intervention, Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u379	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I shall begin by reading Article 282 ( 1 ). the Law No 2 / 2020, which states that « the Government promotes, during 2020, the necessary measures, with the Metropolitan company of Lisbon, EPE, to suspend the construction process of the circular line between the Sodré and Campo Grande, giving priority to the expansion of the metropolitan network to Loures, as well as to Alcântara and the western area of Lisbon ». This is nothing else, as we all know, than the 2020 State Budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u380	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u381	Now we are discussing this in 2022 because the PS did not comply with what was approved in the 2020 budget and which resulted from the proposal of the CFP, adopted with the vote against the Socialist Party and the abstention of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u382	It's a fact.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u383	It is true that this was not the only norm that the PS failed in several budgets, which is very serious too. But it is very serious not to have respected the democratic decision of this Parliament to impose on the country and the city an expansion that only serves the interests of real estate and tourism and does not contribute to solving the problems of mobility of the city, nor to responding to the real interests of those who live and work, above all, if we take into account the urgent needs that exist and which should be given priority, in accordance with the rule of the State budget. This expansion can create serious security problems and, including, means the increase of transhipments for the populations of Odivelas to Campo Grande. This is a solution which is first condemned by the subway workers and also by tables with great responsibilities in the company, and which, even without delay, has very high financial costs. It is absolutely reprehensible that the government's pre-power on this issue and it is a serious mistake that will be paid by all of us, unfortunately. Having said this on behalf of the CFP, I would like to congratulate the petitioners and all those who have committed themselves and are committed to this issue. It is a struggle that the CFP supports from the very first moment and that it will continue to give voice and do so with the awareness that it has fought against this circular line, in this Parliament, in the City Hall of Lisbon, on the streets, with the population, without two sides, so it is better for the population. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u384	Mr Rui Afonso has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u385	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Parliamentary Group of Arrival thanks the petitioners for bringing this issue to debate. The projection and construction of the Circular Green Line was always a controversial issue, which, of course, proved that there was no proper auscultation and due clarification of civil society. Studies commissioned by the Metropolitan company of Lisbon point to an exponential increase in new passengers, as well as significant economic gains. It should be noted, however, that a decision of this importance should not be based solely on a single study commissioned by the interested party. On the other hand, although the study may be exempt, it is not acceptable to take decisions based solely on economic gains. We wonder if here are considered the damage that will be created for those who live, work and study in Great Lisbon. It is irrefutable that the expected economic gains will result in mobility problems for many passengers who today use the subway from the stations of Odivelas and the upper part of Lisbon — more than 800 000 potential users — since, with the implementation of the Green Circular Line, the registered movement of passengers who will begin to make another transhipment between the metro stations will exceed 4 million per year, I repeat, 4 million per year.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u386	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u387	In contrast to the study carried out at the request of the Metropolitane de Lisboa which supports the option of building the circular line, with the data of the petition signed by Ex. Margarida Quintela, there are divergent positions with regard to transhipment and waiting times at the stations. While the study indicates that the circular line option will allow an increase of 109 million passengers, over a period of 30 years, and of 3 million passengers, in the first year, and that the average waiting times will be lower in all cases — except in the Red Line, where they will be maintained — the petition text clearly states that it will be virtually impossible, at the end of the morning, to satisfy all existing demand. It will be virtually impossible to ensure that passengers are able to enter the first subway from Odivelas which arrives at Cais from the stations of the Lumiar or Quinta das Conchas, to Campo Grande, since the same will be completely crowded. In addition, the text of the petition makes it implicit that the disorder caused by line change is much greater than the time delay caused by this change. Indeed, the study commissioned by the Metropolitan of Lisbon raises serious doubts about the numbers presented, in addition to the fact that the Green Circular Line solution is not in any way consensual, so it would be extremely important to obtain an independent study of supply and demand, in order to be measured the real viability of the project. [[Congrats from the CH.]] However, we can never forget that the metro network serves an essentially social purpose, i.e. to guarantee better mobility conditions for people living in Great Lisbon, and also serves an environmental purpose. The less attractive the use of public transport, the more we promote the use of the car. in a scenario where decarbonisation is on the table, it is paradoxical that this is not a priority in decision-making on the management of public transport. It is important to ensure efficient management of the entire metro network. However, purely economic issues, such as the implementation of European funds or a forced executive decision, can never justify the additional sacrifice of thousands and thousands of people who have to travel between their homes, their employment and the school of children every day and who have as their only alternative this means of transport. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u388	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u389	I will finish, Mr. President. We believe that the funds implemented for the creation of the circular line could have had a much more fruitful use, such as the expansion of the metro network to Amateur or Loures. If it is not possible to reverse the project of the circular line, it is imperative that the Lisbon Metropolitan can urgently solve the constraints created, which will have a huge negative impact on the daily experience of thousands and thousands of people. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u390	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Anastácio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u391	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we would like to begin this intervention with a greeting to the petitioners, for bringing to this House the discussion of the petition against the end of the current Yellow Line of the metro of Lisbon. We are a participatory democracy, which takes place with these elements, so we welcome the citizen's impulse to bring this debate to this House. However, if it is true that we speak to citizenship and to its authors a word of appreciation, that word of appreciation is not to which we address the initiatives of the Left Block, the PAN and the PSD. I do not speak of the clear interference of Parliament in the powers of the Executive, if it were to go ahead with what the opposition proposes, yes, of the aim of its initiatives, which is to make noise and confuse the times. But this time, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is no longer the time for discussion, and that is what you are talking about. Ex.a. they want only to drag this discussion indefinitely, so that nothing is done, with a clear damage to the country and to investment in the transport system and the success of the objectives of carbon neutrality.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u392	Don't do anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u393	The Lisbon metropolitan expansion project was the subject of careful analysis and several studies. It is true that they are not the studies in which VV. They believe, because you only believe in studies that are to validate your position.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u394	Look who's talking!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u395	Investment in this line is 240 million — 103 million are Community funds — and so you should say, clearly and transparently to Portuguese people, that they are comfortable with the country's possibility of wasting money to invest in the metropolitan area in Lisbon. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u396	It's just correction!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u397	Mrs. Members, here some time ago, we were accused of ideological decision-making, but there is no more ideological decision than this one to waste money when things are already going on. On ideological decision, we're talking! This line, as has already been said several times, allows the supply of the metro from Lisbon to reduce travel times to the city centre. Through the circular line, it connects the rail, from Cascais, and river, from the Tejo, to the central urban railway axis, from Sintra, Azambouja, Setúbal, and, regionally, to Entrecampos, without need of any transhipment. This is a solution that guarantees high-frequency points, where all lines play. Future expansions only make sense if the centre is strengthened. The solution under construction is the one that responds to the image that you like to project on these screens, which is the image of the stacked meters at peak time in Lisbon.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u398	Okay, you're right! The subway is already working badly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u399	The benefits are clear and with the circular line we will have 12 million more passengers, minus 7500 vehicles per day, minus 5038 tons of CO2 per year, minus 568 tonnes equivalent of oil per year. [[CH protests.]] I want to say something about the expansion to Alcantara, since I heard the PCP say that this harms you. Today, the expansion to Alcantara is going on as fast as possible...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u400	Where does he live? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u401	Have you been on the subway yet? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u402	... and there is no decision on the circular line that can result in a time saving for the expansion of the Red Line to Alcântara. The environmental impact study—as I assume you are. Ladies and gentlemen know — it is for public consultation and we hope to know your opinion. [[CH and PCP protests.]] The Red Line is registered in the PRR and it is 304 million investment, so this is a false argument, that you bring and that it is not because you say more times that it becomes true. [[PSD and CH protests.]] On the history of the transhipment, it is false that the transhipment in Campo Grande is mandatory, there can be Odivelas trains to the Sodré Street. The worst thing is to see that this argument is made disregarding that those who today tranship on the Sodré Street are losing at least half the time on the transhipment, and that even...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u403	Do you know the subway? Talk to the petitioners!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u404	I speak for you, you are a Member! Many residents of Odivelas and Loures arrive in Lisbon, Campo Grande, by bus, and lose at least half of the time on the ferry. [[PSD and CH protests.]] in this argument, it is still ignored that there will be reinforcement in transport to Loures and to Odivelas. This is because it is also public knowledge that the Metropolitan of Lisbon, the City Council of Loures and the City Council of Odivelas signed a protocol of cooperation... [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u405	Sir, allow me. We must listen to each other with warmth and interest, regardless of whether or not we share the same views. So, Mr President, please conclude and the other Members. Members would like to create the conditions for this conclusion to take place. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u406	Thank you, Mr. President. As he said, a protocol was signed between the municipalities of Loures and Odivelas and the Metropolitan of Lisbon, to give the realization to an expansion project in the intermodal coverage, in the current Yellow Line of the Metropolitan of Lisbon, from the station of Odivelas and with continuity between the municipalities of Loures and Odivelas. It is 204 million that are planned in the Recovery and Resilience Plan. I mean, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that the position of the CFP is incoherent and tactical, because you well know where they were in 2009, when at the time they approved this expansion in the City Hall of Lisbon.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u407	It's a lie! You're not informed!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u408	Then came the troika...!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u409	It was with the votes in favour of the PS, the CFP and the abstention of the Members. PSD Members. So if anyone has to explain it is the benches that you are part of. [[PSD laughter and protests.]] Later, which is also curious, the PCP recovered the idea from a heavy metropolitan expansion to Loures. Well, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is curious to see that those who always walk with the democratic local power in their mouth are the first to disrespect him because this is a decision of the Chambers of Odivelas and Loures. [[PCP protests.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to say that the PSD is in this debate with great discomfort because the last investment they made in the Metropolitan of Lisbon was 15 million, to complete the station of Reboleira — the work started by us. [[PSD protests.]] The PS invested 748 million in the circular line, in the Red Line for Alcântara, in the Odivelas and Loures link and will invest by 2030 plus 3000 million in urban mobility in the Lisbon Metropolitan Area. That is why it costs them this debate. I would therefore like to address the PSD again, to say that what is at stake here is another type of link, which has not addressed your initiative or your intervention. Here the loop is not for any circular line or any metro line, the loop is the service of the PSD bench to the new party leadership, it is the tug of Luís Montenegro that fits well with the Carlos Coedas tie. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to resist these tribal attempts, on the ground that we have finished discussing in Parliament the cycle of Admiral Kings Avenue. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u410	Mr Rodrigo Saraiva, from the IL, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u411	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by apologizing to the plenary, because we are talking about the subway, but first I have to talk about the highway. This is because I just saw a little bit of that story, which we all know, from someone who goes into the opposite direction on the motorway Lisbon-Port and goes to the port saying that everyone else is wrong and that the Road Code is also wrong. That's what we just witnessed. By returning to the subway, I obviously begin by greeting the petitioners — they were more than 4000 — who brought to this House one more paradigmatic case, which demonstrates how the PS, still without an absolute majority, already had an absolute view of how to exercise its power. It's the PS of everything, of all can, it's the PS of inimputability, which doesn't listen to anyone, as we've just seen. The circular line of the Lisbon metro is a clear example of that popular saying that « when something is born wrong, late or never goes right » or even that popular expression, which is very well suited to the PS, « make the ears of marketers ». I apologize for being repetitive, because what I am going to say to some Members of the other banks has already said, but this really has to be said. Let us see: in 2019 the Government ignored a resolution by the Assembly of the Republic for suspension of the work, to which they note well, nor did the PS bench oppose. Unsatisfied, the government has hit a government budget standard for 2020 — State budget, it is not just one thing! — determining the suspension of the work. More recently, without Fernando Medina as President of the House of Lisbon, the Authority approved a motion to interrupt the construction of the circular line, but not even the disrespect for the functioning of the institutions had a final point on the part of the PS. We are discussing the consequences of a bad project, which will have harmful effects in various parts of the city, which does not solve and complicate, above all, their links to the neighbouring municipalities, but also a project that, at its stage of studies, already indicated the worst at the level of any procedure. Even in 2016, the head of the Lisbon metro network planning department proposed the award of a study on traffic forecasts with five alternatives to the expansion of the network — five alternatives, yes sir, so far, everything is fine. However, it happens that a still managing director of the Metropolitan of Lisbon, however appointed by the Governments of Antonio Costa, has removed, without any basis, several hypotheses, slamming, conveniently, the doors to the circular line, as was reported in the press at the time. It would obviously be important for those responsible for the Metropolitan and the Government to clarify, once and for all, whether or not it was what might be called a'study to measure' — or 'to the Medina', if they prefer.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u412	Take a dramatic break!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u413	This could be a political discussion, about different views for urban mobility and for the city, but unfortunately, as you see, here is another debate for the hegemonic ticks of the PS. As the Liberal Initiative, especially in the city plan, has come to alert, this project is an anthem to opacity. It was so in several phases and has been thus with other projects related to the metro, as was, for example, the public consultation project, promoted by APA (Portuguese Environment Agency), about the environmental impact of the Red Line. The rush, convenience and incompetence of the PS ignore the financial, environmental, landscape and social impacts of the circular line. And, as a number of experts have already explained, they will leave the network's interoperability naked and the parks won in circulation time. Mr. President, I know the time is short, I'll try to finish. Mobility in the capital obviously has to be resolved urgently, looking at what are the neighbouring municipalities, but strictly, in the perspective of the usefulness for those who live, for those who work and even for those who visit Lisbon. The Liberal Initiative is clear on this: the metro network needs to be expanded, but with so many technical problems, financial costs, social and environmental impacts, the circular line should never have been an option and it should still be time for the government to leave the hole in which it has gone and where it is burying taxpayers' money, once again without any logic or connection. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u414	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u415	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Here is what is so frustrating in the debates on infrastructures in this country — there are proposals for budgetary amendment that are adopted, there are resolutions of this House, resolutions of the City Council of Lisbon, there is an administration of the Metropolitan that goes ahead, a government that, of course, supports it, but is not here to hold this debate with the petitioners.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u416	There's the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u417	So we culminate in a petition that comes to the discussion when it is practically out of time. This certainly does not help to make the debate serious about the advantages and disadvantages of a circular line and a concept of expansion to the metro in Lisbon. We can defend that, in modern cities, there are two kinds of movements that are necessary every day, a pendulum movement and then, in the center of the city, a greater frequency of trains. Obviously, we cannot increase the size of the carriages, nor can we increase the stations in the city center, therefore, the only solution that we have is to increase the frequency of metro trains in the city centre, so that no more than 3 minutes for each train. In thesis, I agree with these principles, but the truth is that this kind of debate never favours an informed clarification of the population, that it is done outside this House and that within this House it is done without resorting to a mere partial bias. If we do not change that—to the circular line, to the new airport of Lisbon, to a possible third crossing of the Tejo...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u418	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u419	I will finish, Mr. President. If we do not change that, we will never be able to hold structural debates on infrastructure investments in this country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u420	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u421	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is just to remember that the Government is not present in this debate, but the Socialist Party is. I do not envy the position of Mr Pedro Anastácio. I understand your nervousness, because it must not be easy to come here to defend the position of the Government and the Socialist Party over the past few years. [[Protests by PS deputy Pedro Anastácio.]] The PS ignored everything and all: all the opinions, all the movements, all the parties, all the municipal chambers. He has come forward in a bill against the law, he has presented to Parliament and society a finished fact and now comes to argue and accuse the Assembly of the Republic of interference in a decision of the Executive, a well-consumed fact that he has advanced against the law, and of ideological drift. Mr. Deputies, it is difficult to make the square of the circle. You may try, but you don't. [[Protests by PS deputy Pedro Anastácio.]] What I think is that this debate shows us is that, Mr President, the Socialist Party's pre-power is not right. The circular line of the Lisbon metro continues to be a mistake, whether the Socialist Party sees this or not and regardless of the dominant and violent way, even as this debate comes up. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u422	The Bureau no longer registers, so that this item on our agenda is closed. I inform the House that you are participating remotely to Mrs Paula Santos. I now give the floor to Mrs. Secretary of the Bureau, Mrs. Palmira Maciel, for the reading of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u423	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, several legislative initiatives. First, I refer to Law No 16 / XV / 1. a ( ALRAA ), which falls to 1. the Commission, and Bills Nos 144 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 145 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission, 147 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 3. the Commission, and 148 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 9. the Commission. They also entered, and were admitted, the Resolution Projects No. 92 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 2. the Commission, in connection with 4. a, 6. a and 11. a Commissions, 93 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 94 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 7. the Commission, 95 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission, 96 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 97 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 98 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 99 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 100 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 101 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 102 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 103 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 105 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 7. the Commission, 106 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, and 122 / XV / 1. a ( Committee on European Affairs ).
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-15.u424	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the next plenary meeting is on Friday, 17, with six points on the agenda. At the first point, we have the urgent debate required by the CH on the chaos installed in the emergency services of gynecology and obstetrics of the country. of the second point is the debate of draft resolution No 55 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government reactivate the Decentralisation Monitoring Commission. of the third point is the discussion of draft Law Nos 4 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Eliminates visasgold ( eighth amendment to the legal regime of entry, stay, departure and removal of aliens from national territory ), 109 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Repeals the scheme for the award of visas gold- residence permit for investment activity ( ninth amendment to Law No 23 / 2007 of 4 July, which defines the conditions of entry, stay, exit and departure from national territory ), 113 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Revokes the residence authorisation programme for investment activity by amending Law No 23 / 2007 of 4 July, 114 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Requires the Government to prepare and deliver to the Assembly of the Republic a report assessing the impact of the visasgold programme in the period 2012 to 2021, 130 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Alter the legal regime for the issue of residence permit for investment ( visasgold ) and draft resolution No 78 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent regulation of Decree-Law No 14 / 2021 of 12 February in order to enable the operationalization of the online platform and the submission of online requests for gold visas for real estate purposes in the Autonomous Regions of Madeira, the Azores and the interior. At the fourth point, we have the discussion of Bill Nos 68 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Change the law on the financing of political parties and electoral campaigns, eliminating several exemptions from which political parties benefit, 42 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Eighth amendment to Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June ( Law on the Financing of Political Parties and Election Campaigns ) and third amendment to Organic Law No 2 / 2005 of 10 January ( Law on the Organization and Operation of the Entity of Political Accounts and Financing ), 102 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Eliminates the tax benefits of political parties and reduces the value of public subsidies ( eighth amendment to the Political Party Financing Act, Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June ), 110 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Reduce public funding to political parties and electoral campaigns ( eighth amendment to Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June ), 116 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Revoks tax benefits allocated to political parties and decreases the limits of election campaign spending, amends the Law on the Financing of Political Parties and Electoral Campaigns, 117 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Increases the transparency of the accounts of the parties and budgets of the election campaigns and ensures that the Entity of Political Accounts and Financing has a stable organic structure, amending the Law on the Financing of Political Parties and Election Campaigns and the Law on the Organization and Operation of the Entity of Political Accounts and Financings and 123 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Introducing measures for fiscal justice, equal treatment and transparency in the financing of political parties and electoral campaigns ( eighth amendment to Law 19 / 2003 of 20 June ). of the fifth point is the discussion of draft Law Nos 25 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Amendment to the Urban Rent Scheme, 118 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Recognition of lease contracts ( eighth amendment to the new Urban Rent Scheme ), 119 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Stability in lease contracts ( seventy-eighth amendment to the Civil Code ), 128 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Amends the Urban Rent Scheme and provides for non-discrimination in access to housing and 131 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Amends the Urban Rent Scheme. of the sixth item also includes the discussion requested by the Committee on European Affairs of the opinion on the 'Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the transparency and direction of political propaganda' initiative. I draw attention to the fact that, by agreement at the Conference of Leaders, the Friday meeting will start at 9 a.m. and 30 minutes. Registral votes, as is normal, take place at the end of the agenda. Thank you very much and good holiday. The session is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 31 minutes.]]
