ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we already have quorum, all parliamentary groups are now represented, and the sitting is therefore open. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the galleries to the public. I begin by reading the message Mr. President of the Republic intended to be addressed to the Assembly of the Republic. I ask for conditions to all of us to hear your message. « Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, in the use of the faculty provided for in Article 133 ( d ). the Constitution, I intend to address to the Assembly of the Republic the following message: 1. The Constitution imposes Article 117 ( 2 ). that the legislator establishes the duties, responsibilities and incompatibilities of the holders of political positions and the consequences of their non-compliance. 2. in this sense, the legislature approved Law No 4 / 83 of 2 April, as amended by Law No. 38 / 83, of 25 October October, 25 / 95, of 18 August, 19 / 2008, of 21 April, 30 / 2008, of 10 July, 38 / 83, of 2 April, of 2 April, as amended by Law Law No. 38 / 83, of 25 October, 25 / 95, of 18 August, 25 / 95, of 18 August, 19 / 2008, of 21 April, 30 / 2008, of 21 April, 30 / 2008, 2008, of 21 / 2008, of 21 April, of 21 / 2008, of 21 April, of 21 / 2008, of 21 April, 30 / 2008, of 21 / 2008, of 21 / 2008, of 21 / 2008, of 21 / 2008., of 21 April, 3..., the words approved, the words adopted by 18 April, of 2 April, as amended, as amended, as amended, as amended, as amended, as amended, as amended, as amended by Law Nos Nos Nos Nos Nos Nos Nos Nos Nos Nos Nos Nos Nos Nos Nos Nos Nos Nos Nos Nos Nos Nos Nos Nos Nos Nos Nos Nos Nos Nos Nos Nos Nos Nos Nos Nos Nos Nos Nos Nos Nos Nos Nos Nos Nos Nos Nos Nos Nos Nos Nos Nos Nos Nos Nos No, No, Nos Nos No, No, No, No, No, No, No, No, No, No, No, No, No, No, No, No, No, No, Nos, No. No. No, No, No, No, No, No, No, No. Nos, No, the Act No, No. 38. No. No, No, No, Equally relevant in the matter to Law No 34 / 87 of 16 July, as amended by Law No 108 / 2001 of 28 November, Law No 30 / 2008 of 10 July, Law No 41 / 2010 of 3 September, Law No 4 / 2011 of 16 February, Law No 4 / 2013 of 14 January ( rectified by Declaration of Corrigendum No 5 / 2013 of 25 January ), Law No 30 / 2015 of 22 April, and Law No 94 / 2021 of 21 December, concerning the crimes of liability of holders of Political Charges and the Statute of the Entity for Transparency, approved by Organic Law No 4 / 2019 of 13 September. the amendment to Law No 28 / 82 of 15 November. 3. This complicated legislative complex has raised wide controversy in Portuguese society, which is essential for citizens' confidence in the institutions, which, as we have seen, results in a constitutional imposition. 4. The interpretation doubts underlying the schemes concerned were expressed, including by the Advisory Council of the Attorney-General's Office of the Republic when, at two moments, it was pronounced on the application of this legislative framework: in Opinion No 25 / 2019 and in Opinion No 6 / 2021. 5. In the first case, referring to a potential interpretation in accordance with the Constitution of the regime concerned, in order to comply with the principle of proportionality, it ends up operating a 'teleological reduction', to distinguish the situations provided for in the law. 6. In the second case, the Opinion states, in its conclusion No 39, that the ‘ literal fixation in the concepts of public and collective procurement, which occurs in Article 9(4). the and other provisions of Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July represent a double obscurity factor and which must be carefully considered, either by the parliamentary legislature or by the Government, as a superior body of the Public Administration ( see. Article 182. the Constitution) and at the same time equipped with broad powers of legislative initiative in matters of reserved competence of the Assembly of the Republic (cf. Article 167. o ) '. 7. In this respect, it is not appropriate for the interpreter to resort to interpretative methods such as teleological reduction or to admit obscurities. 8. For this reason, I address this message to the Assembly of the Republic requesting, if it considers such reflection relevant and necessary, to review the legislation in force concerning the exercise of functions by holders of political and high public positions, their declarative obligations and their sanctions regime, translating it into a single and clear body which regulates, inter alia, the exercise of duties, their decision-making processes, their family relations and others, thus eliminating the remaining doubts or obscurities. I present to you my respectful compliments. The President of the Republic. Do not keep on seeking. ” For the reading of the dossier, I give the floor to Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members, of course, refer to the withdrawal, by the proposer, of the Bill No 9 / XIV / 1. a ( ALRAM ). They entered the Bureau, and were admitted, Lein's Proposals 36 / XV / 1. a, 37 / XV / 1. a, 38 / XV / 1. a and 39 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), Resolution Projects Nos 263 / XV / 1. a ( CH), 265 / XV / 1. ( IL), 266 / XV / 1. a ( CAE) and 267 / XV / 1. a (IL) and Bills Nos 349 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) and 350 and 351 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ).
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u3	We will start the period of political declarations. The first political declaration is for the Socialist Party and I give the floor to Mr Francisco César.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u4	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: Let me first of all allow my first words to be to greet the Government and the social partners for the agreement reached at the heart of social dialogue. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in an international context and context with increasing challenges and difficulties, with the increased inflation of the last decades to strongly push the cost of living, with the increase of interest rates and with a war as a background to paint the horizon with uncertainty and uncertainty towards the future, reaching an agreement in these circumstances is indeed a great political fact. First of all, this agreement reveals a high sense of responsibility on the part of its stakeholders — of all its stakeholders — who, in the face of a context of great adversity, have put the national interest above all. The success of this agreement also reflects the collective affirmation of an alternative path in times of crisis — yes, Mrs and Mrs. Members, an alternative path to the right, an alternative path to austerity. It is possible to share the efforts and wealth in a socially just way; to alleviate the difficulties of families in the face of misfortune; to bet on the living conditions of young people; to value wages and, at the same time, to strengthen the productivity and competitiveness of our companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This agreement therefore has this great merit: the merit of being, in summary, the result of the responsible social and political dialogue that the Portuguese people demand us in times of crisis. It is a good deal for Portugal and a good deal for Portuguese. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, to the stability of the absolute majority of the PS required by the Portuguese, we add, with this agreement, achieved in dialogue with the social partners, the value of stability, prudence and predictability in the medium term, in the implementation of measures and reforms in a set of areas of economic and social, which are essential for the present and future of the country, until, as Mr President of the Republic has pointed out, it is very different to face a current context of difficulties with stability or with a climate of permanent social tension. But if the form is, in this case, as important as the content, we pay attention to the material result of what it means, in practice, to the lives of people and companies, this Medium-Term Agreement for the Improvement of Income, Salaries and Competitiveness. In short, it is the value of family income, the improvement of the living conditions of young people and the increase in the competitiveness of businesses across the country — continent and autonomous regions. For example, I refer to the valuation of income and wages, also by assuming an ambitious political commitment in respect of national minimum wage, which said it was not possible or desirable: €760 already in 2023 and successive valuations until reaching €900 in 2026. In practice, this objective will ensure that, between 2015 and 2026, in the run-up to socialist governance, the valuation of the national minimum wage is more than 78 % in contrast to an expected inflation of less than 24 % for the same period.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u5	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u6	It's a truly historical result! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Mr Pedro Pinto's laughs.]] But in addition to this great achievement, this agreement maintains the aim of the Government Programme to achieve a relative weight of GDP (gross domestic product) of at least 48, 3 % in 2026 and thus converge with the European average. However, together with the increase in income through wages or tax, this agreement does not forget the appreciation of the living conditions of young people, for example, by creating an annual programme to support the continuous recruitment of qualified young people with wages equal to or greater than €1320, or by strengthening the annual benefit of IRS Young, thus enabling them to respond to the wishes of those who have just entered the labour market. We also affirm in this agreement our commitment to support companies affected by the crisis of inflation and war—yes, because there is no economy without workers, because there is no economy without companies and no business without profit,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... in all sectors of our economy, trade, tourism, agriculture to industry—either by promoting investment and its capitalisation through selective reduction of IRC (tax on the income of the public), or by adopting new measures to mitigate the increase in the cost of context, especially in the area of energy. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this agreement adds ambition to the more than EUR 4250 million that the Government has already mobilised for businesses and families, to which more measures are now being added in the State budget for 2023. This is an agreement that, in the face of turbulence and adversity, gives answers and points a way. These are objectives of those who are ambitious and want more for the future of the country, of those who do not conform to or resign themselves, of those who, in dialogue, in consultation, in a spirit of openness, do not take refuge in the comfort of the majority given to them in elections and, on the contrary, seek consensus and seek to build solutions involving the social partners and other entities representing Portuguese society.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u7	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u8	I'm done now, Mr. President. Paraphrasing what has been said brilliantly for decades, I support these famous words to say that, in this context of growing difficulties, this agreement is not the end of our action in the fight against the crisis, it is not even the beginning of the end, but perhaps the end of the beginning. So we all know how to follow the example of the government and the social partners and, indeed, put national interest above all. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u9	Mr President, the Bureau records seven entries for requests for clarification. I assume you might answer in two blocks...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u10	I'll answer in two blocks, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u11	The first request for clarification is for the Parliamentary Group of the CFP, with Mr Alfredo Maia speaking. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u12	Mr President, Mr Francis César, I listened very carefully to you spending on income policy, which is actually a policy of impoverishment.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u13	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u14	And it is impoverished because, although it has emphasized it, the increase of the national minimum wage is far below what is necessary, of what is even required, there is no real valuation of wages, pensions and reforms,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u15	On the contrary! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u16	... and there is a serious erosion of purchasing power from day to day. There is no agreement that involves speculation and big profits, which controls prices. And even excessive profit rates do not cover essential sectors such as large distribution, electricity or even banking and insurance, which have recorded very significant profits. at the same time, the government tends to increase the so-called tax bills for companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u17	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u18	A very clear example is the end of the period for injury reports to bring down profits. There is no better example than the New Bank, which has recorded, as we know, successive losses in recent years. By 2020, it has recorded EUR 1329 million of losses, this year it already goes to EUR 266 million of profit and what is certain is that it will not pay 1 cent of taxes since it can report these losses.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u19	Well observed!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u20	To understand the abissal difference in the tax treatment given by the State, by the Government and the Socialist Party, let me remind you that a worker who sees the recovery of wage credits — wage credits, debts that the employer owes him! — between the middle and the end of the economic year, it will rise from IRS (tax on income of natural persons) and will see its rate greatly increased.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u21	And how! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u22	So, honourable Member, I ask you: what tax justice is in this? What are the profits for the workers? After all, what income policy is this but a policy of impoverishment? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u23	Mr Pedro Roque of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor to ask for clarification. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u24	Mr President, Mr Francis César, I have listened very carefully to your speech and let me tell you that it is always important when the tripartite social dialogue converges in a conciliation agreement. In government or opposition, the PSD has always defended concertation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u26	We recall the historic commitment of January 2012, responsible for creating a climate of social peace that helped Portugal overcome the difficulties of a financial rescue in the midst of economic crisis. But your euphoria is understood: for the first time in seven years, commitment to social dialogue results in strategic agreement. It was enough, in order to do so, to have preferred the social partners to the partners of management. Long goes the time of the cattle fair, and that can only be greeted. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u27	But, attention, a strategic agreement is not an end in itself, but a beginning and the government is wrong. As the largest employer in Portugal prepares to give the first axe in this agreement. The proposal for a multiannual wage update for the Public Administration grossly violates the agreement. It will represent a huge loss of purchasing power for state workers. This will be the payment that, for example, teachers, health professionals, or, moreover, senior technicians will have for the service they provide to the whole society. So I ask the honourable Member : how do you see the Socialist Party, this contradiction between what the Government, a political body, signs in social consultation, and what the Government, an employer, practice, by impoverishing its workers in the coming years? How can we expect sectoral collective bargaining to achieve the agreed wage targets and the weight of wages in GDP to reach the European average of 48 % if we start in the State in this way so unhappy? Finally, is there an explanation for the fact that the famous Agenda for Worthy Work is not drawn up in this agreement? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u28	To make a request for clarification, Mr José Moura Soeiro, of the Left Block, now has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u29	Mr President, Mr Francisco César, the winners of this agreement are neither the Country nor stability nor cohesion, the winners of this agreement are the owners.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u30	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u31	This was a great deal for the bosses. What do the bosses have to give in this agreement? They have a commitment of 5 % salary increases, which depend on collective bargaining and therefore is a target that depends on collective bargaining, and 5 % was already what was being negotiated by employers and UGT (General Workers' Union) in several sectors before the agreement. So it was something that was already being done before the deal. That is to say, their share is something they were already doing: wage increases below inflation, in a context where there is a pressure for lack of labour and, therefore, something they have to do. On the other hand, employers receive a banquet, a tax stamp on IRC, in which the loss discount ceases to have a temporary limit. In fact, they even have to make contributions to the Labour Compensation Fund and to the Salary Guarantee Fund — another gift for the employers! — ;...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u32	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u33	... and they will have, as yet not known, these EUR 3000 million in relation to energy expenditure. Now, if the employers are so benefited and so supported by this agreement, what is proposed for the workers, what is enshrined in them, is impoverishment — impoverishment! — because increases below inflation mean real loss of purchasing power, therefore impoverishment. It is also confirmed that the 20% increase in wages during the legislature, that the Prime Minister was speaking, are only nominal. It's on the deal! 20 % are not a real increase in wages, they are nominal. In other words, it is confirmed that such 20 % are or stagnation, depending on inflation over the next few years, or possibly even real loss of purchasing power. And, if this is the case, what this agreement produces, the effect of this agreement, is the increase in the imbalance in income between capital and labour, what the Government had said it wanted to fight.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u34	Sure! It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u35	The agreement does not strengthen the collective bargaining—which, in fact, depends on wage increases—has nothing structural to strengthen the balance in working relations, and not even things coming from other agreements are still being realized: as regards the rate of productivity, we will be waiting until we see it realized. So, Mr President, with this imbalance, do you not think that this agreement is really a gift, an offer to the bosses? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u36	To make a request for clarification, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u37	Mr President, Mr Francisco César, I should like to begin by welcoming the fact that the dialogue with social dialogue has begun, which is always positive. The agreement concluded by the Government has important advances, such as the revision of the minimum wage values targets, and then has a timid review of the IRC, which will reach only 110 000 companies, which is a drop in the ocean which is our business fabric. And we stay this way, in terms of progress. In other words, where measures were required to be a SOS for businesses and families, we had tax measures that would only have practical effects on companies in 2024. Where measures were required to compensate Portuguese for inflation this year and the next year, what we had in this agreement was an update of steps that will not, at all, stop the loss of income for inflation and which, worse, in the case of the 2. the ladder will give with one hand in 2023 what will take away in 2024. More: measures were required to protect the right to housing for tenants and holders of credit for housing, but what we had was a support of 500 million for the income of young people who will only arrive in 2024, as if the young people and the problem of the housing crisis could wait for what is a genuine housing emergency. Where measures were required to combat the drought problem, we also had zero incentives for efficient and balanced water management or for environmentally sustainable agriculture. What I ask you, Mr President, is whether, in fact — and in my speech, you spoke of « national interest above all» — is whether the PS will remain in its sovereignty of the absolute majority or whether it will be available to dialogue and also make political consultation within this House, so that we can respond to the real concerns of the Portuguese who are out there waiting for solutions, not by 2024, but immediately by 2023.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u38	To reply, Mr Francisco César has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, I begin with exactly what you said. This agreement is part of the strategy that the Government and the Socialist Party have always had from the outset: to associate the stability of an absolute majority with the stability of a set of measures made in the medium and long term, which allow families and businesses to be able to plan their lives and make decisions in the right way. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But more: this agreement—as the PSD also referred to, quoting the phrase I used when I finished my intervention—is not the beginning. This agreement is included in a set of measures which, until the signature of the agreement, already accounted for some EUR 4250 million, added to this agreement and added to the budget of the State which was presented yesterday. Therefore, this is not just a separate moment on the part of the Government in terms of its action. It is a time when it is associated with the recovery of wages, for example by increasing the national minimum wage, which, from 2015 to the end of the income agreement, will increase its value by around 78 %, far above the value of inflation. But this agreement also has fiscal measures, which are also included in the State budget. It is enough to remember that we can only count on measures which go far beyond — I repeat, largely — around EUR 1 billion. Therefore, this is a State budget for families, aimed at increasing purchasing power, also for increasing the living conditions of young people, by increasing the benefit or strengthening within the framework of IRS Young, as well as supporting the recruitment of young people for wages that are not only the lowest, but wages for qualified young people, above 1300 €. This is an agreement that aims to improve the living conditions of families, but it also pays attention to companies. As I said, there is no economy without workers, but there is no economy without companies and there is no business without profit. Therefore, this is the balance that can be made and that is marked either by the agreement, or by other measures, in order to enable the improvement of remuneration, the improvement of income and the improvement of living conditions, but also support for companies at a time when they are experiencing difficulties,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u40	Sonae's little girl!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u41	... supporting its costs of context, allowing them to improve their activity and thus be able to hire and bring wealth to our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u42	You now have the floor to make your request for clarification, Mr Rui Tavares, of the Free.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u43	Mr. President, Dear colleagues, Mr. Francisco César, the government wants to increase the proportion of wages in GDP from 46 % to 48 %. We will give it cheaply that this is the correct criterion, although there are several contraindications that may not be. The weight of wages in Brazil's GDP is greater than the weight of wages in Sweden's GDP, and most of us and our fellow citizens would like to have the wages of Sweden rather than those of Brazil. The proportion of wages in Ireland's GDP is lower than in Portugal, and our citizens would in principle be happier with Irish wages than with our own.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u44	Salaries are higher!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u45	It is true, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, but Ireland also has a European social model and, as in other countries, has been built, inter alia, by the left and the left centre of Europe. There is also another problem: if we have a contraction of GDP, if we have a recession and if wages remain more or less stable, then the government has a recession to do its homework, but the wages are not better. But we cheaply do all that. The government has reached an agreement in which employers have already achieved things that they wanted for a long time, in return for, in the long run, increasing wages for workers. How do we make sure that this happens? Mr. Francisco César, in countries that had strong wage developments throughout the 20th century, I tell you what was the way to guarantee this: it was valuing collective bargaining, giving bargaining strength to trade unions and including workers in business boards. The question I am asking is very simple: where are the measures in this context by the Government and the PS?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u46	Mr Rui Rocha, of the Liberal Initiative, now has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u47	Mr President, Mr Francisco César, I think you said that only the measures relating to the IRS would amount to about EUR 1000 million, will be about that number.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u48	More or less!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u49	I reminded you that this is exactly the number of capital injection to be made at TAP (Portuguese Air Transport) by the end of the year. in this sense, I warned him: if we are talking about « families first», TAP seems to come before families, even accepting these accounts. The second point I wanted to stress is this: in the case of the income agreement, it was possible to do so for four years and therefore the PS has no problem talking about what will happen in 2024, 2025 and 2026. It is interesting that, for pensioners, 2024 is a taboo year and that the PS does not want to talk about what will happen in 2024.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u50	It's not taboo!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u51	Finally, Mr President, it seems to me that what is in the income agreement, from the point of view of wage developments, is a nominal development. In this regard, I would like to ask you whether it is indeed a nominal development or a real development, since, if it is a nominal development, there is a clear recognition that the promise of Prime Minister Antonio Costa will not be fulfilled, in accordance with the income agreement itself. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u52	Mr Pedro Pinto has the floor for a request for clarification on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u53	Mr President, Mr Francisco César, I have to agree with you, and I believe that this is the first time I have done so in this Parliament, when you mention that it is a historical result. It is a historical result what the Socialist Party is doing to the country, with unprecedented increases, with unprecedented austerity, with a food cabaz with a price as never seen, with fuel at prices as never seen, electricity as never seen. The stock gas in Portugal is almost three times the price of the gas in Spain. All of this has a name: Socialist Party! Austerity of the Socialist Party! [[Congrats from the CH.]] All the agreements that have been made do not help the 4 million poor who live in Portugal and that the Socialist Party has left at the threshold of poverty. They do not help their lives, they help to keep the poor, that is the only thing the Socialist Party has achieved. In fact, they want to keep people at the threshold of poverty for a very simple reason: to thus be sucked by the socialist machine, by the socialist family, and always depend on state support. [[Congrats from the CH.]] This Government refuses to reduce VAT (tax on value added) for essential food products at a rate of 0 %. That, yes, would be a support. Refusal to reduce electricity VAT and gas VAT to 0 %. That, yes, would be support that people would feel directly at the end of the month. What is it worth to increase the national minimum wage when the loss of purchasing power is higher? The government says it has saved EUR 1320 million for salary increases in public service, but public officials will lose purchasing power. This is the reality. Moreover, inflation, according to government figures, which are never very reliable, is 7, 4 % next year. In the right socialist way, there is someone who is really raised above inflation, which are those of social income of insertion, whose increase is 8 %. Once again, one who does nothing is pressed and one who works is harmed. This is the Socialist Party! [[Congrats from the CH.]] In agriculture, the question is very simple: will they continue to do what they have done, i.e. postpone support, postpone payments, or pay in time and hours, as they have never done, even this year, when they have not paid Portuguese farmers in time and hours? Another direct question I would like to ask: what will the Portuguese feel in their pocket at the end of the month with these agreements that have been made? They're not gonna feel anything! In fact, it's a fraud, like the one you did with pensioners and now you're dealing with the rest of Portuguese. Mr. Deputy, you talked a lot about young people. in this sense, I ask you: where is the improvement in the quality of life of young people? It doesn't exist! Notice, Mr. Member, that there are young people who want to go to university and do not have a home, do not have housing to stay and therefore cannot take their course. That, yes, would be a help from the Government of the Socialist Party, which cannot do it. [[Congrats from the CH.]] You know, Mr President, « families first » only if they are those who have the Socialist Party card. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u54	To reply, Mr Francisco César has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to start, exceptionally, by responding to the arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u56	Thank you!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u57	Mr Pedro Pinto, allow me to tell you that you do not give to sing and to whistle at the same time. It is not possible, on the one hand, to accuse this government and this socialist bench of not supporting families when they have greater needs and at the same time to accuse the Socialist Party of being spending on the support that gives those who need the most. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u58	They only support those who don't work!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u59	Mr President, it is not possible to sing and whistle at the same time, which is the exercise you have tried here. In addition, the Liberal Initiative came here with the TAP argument. It came here with the usual argument of the tax drop, as if the tax drop were a solution for everything, referring, for example, to the level of the IRS, that there is support of just over EUR 1 billion for families. However, we provide not only a EUR 1000 million support in the IRS area for families, but also an exceptional support of € 125 for family incomes and a set of support for younger people, ranging from €50 to the Youth Guarantee, going through an increase in family allowance. There is a whole range of support to families who need the most and in a way that allows them to decide which best use they should give to the extra income they have received. We know that the Portuguese go through difficulties, we do not ignore the effect of inflation, but we know that the Socialist Party affirms the way of being possible, at a time of crisis, within those who are their possibilities, to help those most in need — to help families, to help businesses, and to help through this situation. This is therefore the possible agreement. An agreement which not only satisfies the Government, not only the social partners of the employers, who have signed it with pleasure but which has also been signed by a trade union centre, Mr Deputy, which has agreed to this set of measures in the medium term. This is an agreement that allows, on the one hand, support those who need the most, support the workers and, on the other hand, enables them to trust that the agreement we have reached will truly have effects on people's lives. These are the commitments that have been made by this government and that we welcome here, because they have put national interest above all. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u60	To give the political statement on behalf of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carla Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In these days the State budget for 2023 has been delivered, which is a budget that does not serve Portugal. It is far from being the budget that the Portuguese need. It does not serve the Portuguese because it repeats the recipes of always, the recipes that led Portugal to stagnation and that prevent it from growing, without ambition. It has avulsive, punctual, dispersed measures, without a strategy, without a vision. It says the Minister of Finance that this is a Budget of stability, based on trust and commitment. Stability? Yes, but it's stability in stagnation, stability in tax overload. Trust? No, because it is increasingly clear in the eyes of all Portuguese that the confidence they have placed in the Socialist Party is being delapidated in the promises that it has already broken. And it's not the environment or instability, it's a choice that they make when they report pensions in the way they did it or when they do propaganda. Compromise? Not even with families or companies! This is a little budget, which throws a lot of things without succeeding at anything. It is a makeup budget, which forces us to spend more time unmasking and demystifying what is said in it, rather than looking precisely at the effects of policies and worrying about actions. Examples? We start with the families: the reduction in the rate of the second step of IRS has a maximum impact of €75 per year and does not imply a significant change in the remaining steps. But, for example, I have heard the Secretary of State say, in this regard, that it is a "structuring measure". Another example: IRS steps are not updated to compensate for the increase in inflation 2022, which is incomprehensible to everyone less for PS. The biggest surprise is hearing PS Members say that « austerity is to cut wages ». It is that only they do not seem to have understood that not increasing IRS steps in order to compensate the inflation of 2022 and 2023 has, in practice, a similar effect to cutting wages. And, yes, we are returning to the discussion of real and nominal terms. I should perhaps like to make a very clear request to the Socialist Bank and also to the Government: they do not contribute to misinformation, they do not contribute to financial iliteracy. And for companies, more than that: punctual measures, some even positive, but also the same illusions. There are no cross-cutting measures and we will continue to be the champions of the tax burden in companies, in the European Union, when we compare with IRC, spillovers and all the tax burden. What we should be doing was, yes, generating wealth, helping companies to be competitive to generate value, to pay good wages. More examples of propaganda measures? Let us also do this exercise for companies. Still today it has been discussed here about the IRC regarding wage valuation. All right, government data : budgetary cost, EUR 75 million; beneficiaries, 500 000; impact, 2024. Look at this, ladies. Members, we are talking about this measure: €150 on average, per company, for 2024. They now look at the titles: « selective IRC for those who value wages» or « Privately, increase salary charges by 50 % ». See the comparison of realities. And the examples follow, the misconceptions follow: EUR 1 500 million is said to pay debts in health, with three years' delay. How did the State boast of paying debts that are already late in the next three years? If they were companies or families to be paid late to the State, they would be penalized. But no, to a state that the PS is so mismanaged, everything is allowed. We criticise the form, but the worst is the content and are the options, yes, are the political options. When we talk about the benefits for the IRS, the IRS Youth and Housing, higher education, benefits for the family, support for the first childhood, which we are now going to discuss in the specialty, we are talking about 900 million euros, 1000 million, 1100 million. For TAP, in December, will go 1000 million. Are these the correct political options? For the Liberal Initiative, no. There are positive far-reaching measures, some of which are simplification in companies, and, curiously, we have seen proposals from the Liberal Initiative down here in the same direction a few weeks ago. But if we look for what was really needed in terms of reforms in this budget, we can well find that we are not. Nothing we miss, because reform is not a word that matches the PS. The PS runs away from reforms even when it has an absolute majority, even when it receives the highest volume of ever structural funds, even when it is prepared to receive the millions of euros from the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ). And on the tax burden—yes, I will speak again in the tax burden, the one that beat records in 2021 and which would come down in 2022—what did the government say? That in 2022 it would come down, that it would not profit from inflation, that what should have remained in the pockets of the Portuguese but that it was to the state would be returned. And what happened? The tax burden remained on record. What about 2023 now? New downtime promises. Let's see, but what we can already see on tax revenue maps is that revenue in the IRS remains and VAT is going to increase even EUR 800 million. The VAT which, curiously, the government said that it could not download into food because it did not know well whether the benefit would stop the families. Let us remember: « The budget of families first». I therefore conclude by clarifying the great misunderstanding of this State budget, the great misunderstanding of this slogan. They say: « families, first; stability, commitment and trust». I will explain the true conjugation, what they mean is this: "with this Budget, the Government is confident that the primary commitment of families is to ensure the stability of state revenue." With PS is: State first, family later. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u62	The honourable Member has seven requests for clarification and I take it that she responds in two blocks. The first request for clarification will be for Mrs Mariana Mortágua, from BE.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I support your position on the following point: if the Government is so sure of the measures it has put forward to combat inflation, if it is so sure of the agreement it has made in social consultation and the State budget, why do you feel the need to deceive people? Why does the government feel the need to lie to people? Because this was what he did when he felt the instability of social security, figures which were, however, denied by the Budget itself, which eliminated any doubt about the sustainability of social security and its future resilience. But there is more: there is extraordinary support for pensioners who, after all, are only an anticipation of the pension and a cut in future rights; there is a reduction in the price of electricity that, when we see it, is less than €9 in the annual light account; there is a tax measure for housing credit that is not worth anything — it is a yield of 2023 exchanged for income of 2024 — and today we have received a mega proposed for energy, of EUR 3 billion, in which half — half — half! — of this mega proposal is money already in the system and that would have this end irrespective of the action of the Government. They are all tricks, tricks behind tricks, minus one: there is a measure that is not a trick, a tax bill that is unpublished to banks and large companies, which can now damage profits without any time limit. In practice, we are talking about a decline in the IRC that the government cannot account for, the government cannot find out what the financial commitment of this measure is. Therefore, Mrs Carla Castro, knowing this, knowing that in this budget there is no price control, there is no rate on extraordinary profits of energy, banking or retail, there are no limitations on real estate speculation, there is no end to the regime of the unusual resident and that the government even wants to develop an economy crypto, my question is: does the Liberal Initiative no longer like this Budget than it is willing to admit? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u64	For a request for clarification, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Carla Castro, for the NAP, there is, in fact, a matter that is approaching us: there is fiscal conservatism on the part of the Government which then translates into a suffocation for families and businesses, especially for SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises), leaving out the big profits and large businesses as well as the bank. This is the most characteristic trait, which is seen, for example, in what is the refusal to increase support for the stock of essential goods. The cabaz of essential goods rose €21 since March and in 2023 the escalation of prices does not seem to slow down, but the Government has only one option to give the Portuguese that is more conservative tax and less support measures. The Government does not apply zero VAT to essential foods when the directive so permits; nor does it move forward with proposals to change steps that are clear and apply immediately and not only in 2024 or that do not take with one hand what they are supposed to give to the other in 2023. The actual decline in IRS retention in the source is no more than an exercise of illusionism, as I said, and the benefits of housing credit rise 69 %, when the government clings to fiscal conservatism with a voluntary reduction in the retention of IRS in the source which, in essence, is a «receiving now, but paid later ». But there is one question I would like to ask you. When we have the prosecutor of the recession at the door and we continue to give tax bills to those who earn the most and most pollution and we continue to have support for non-standard residents, the question is: which side is the Liberal Initiative going to be on? Will it be on the environmental side and on the side of families and small and medium-sized enterprises, being available to follow measures such as the rate on extraordinary profits — like what happened to your German family, particularly in the Ministry of Finance — or will it be in reverse? And for non-standard residents, who consume 66% of the IRS money spent on tax benefits, are they actually available to end this scheme? Which side will the Liberal Initiative be on?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u66	For a request for clarification, I now give the floor to Mr Pedro Frazão of the Republic of Spain.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Carla Castro, you will forgive me for talking about your back, but your colleagues on the bench did not make it delicate to let you come to the front bench to answer the questions. So, I'm sorry, but I'm going to turn my back on you. Mrs Carla Castro made the political declaration of the bottom-down, which is exactly what the Liberal Initiative so often accuses the Arrival, that is, to be the party of the bottom-down. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u68	Mrs Carla Castro came up there and gave no alternative, not one! I follow your criticisms and many of the things you have said, but I could at least have given you an alternative. He's talking about reforms. But what reforms, Mrs Carla Castro? I asked for this clarification to give you the opportunity to elucidate all about what reforms the Liberal Initiative is all about. Madam Member, you have forgotten a very important sector in Portugal, agriculture, and I would like to ask you to clarify this. In the State budget, as we can see in this chart, agriculture is in the penultimate barres and is, in fact, the Ministry that most loses words in this State budget. The speaker displayed a poster with a chart. It is indeed a brutal disinvestment in agriculture and we know that our farmers, with the drought, with the increase in production costs and the increase in raw materials for feed for animals, are going through very difficult times, very rough paths. Mrs Carla Castro, if the Liberal Initiative is against support for farmers, here is news: « Europeans: Liberal initiative wants to end the support of the common agricultural policy ».
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u69	You've forgotten!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u70	« Legislation of 2022 : the Liberal Initiative wants to reduce direct dependence on the support of the common agricultural policy ». The speaker posted news from the newspaper. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mrs Deputy, you explain to us what the reform is for the common agricultural policy, what the reform you want for the primary sector. Because the Liberal Initiative does not cease to be a party of the Royal Prince and becomes a party of the farmers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u71	They can't, they can't!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u72	... of the rural world, of real Portugal, of the people who live on their land and who need to sustain and feed their children. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u73	For a request for clarification, Mr Rui Tavares has now given the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u74	Mr President, Mrs Carla Castro, I know what the government's strategy for this budget is, I do not agree with it, and I know what would be the alternative strategy of the Free.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u75	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u76	The Government's strategy is to give priority to budgetary consolidation, and I remember what I said 10 years ago when budgetary consolidation was given priority in periods of recession risk. Basically, it was ensured that there was a recession and that it was deeper than it would need to be. The strategy of the Book would be that of social responsibility to be budgetary responsibility. The economy now needs some help, because it is already losing speed, people need some help in the face of the escalation of inflation, and the government's revenue is grateful that we do not let the economy fall. What I do not know, however, is whether the budgetary strategy of the Liberal Initiative is that of the United Kingdom, because I remember having had a debate with Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo in this election campaign, and all he told me in this debate about tax cutting is what British Prime Minister Liz Truss is now implementing.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u77	What about the expense?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u78	At the time, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo, and you must remember the expression I used for what was your political bet, said: « a façade! » It is a façade, in which it was cut into taxes and the economy grew.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u79	What about the expense?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u80	For I have something to say to you: in the United Kingdom pension funds are in panic; the UK rating in negative perspective; research and development cuts to compensate for tax cuts and today, in the House of Commons Treasury Board, economists who were there said that the growth targets of the government of Liz Truss are impossible to achieve. The question is very simple: is the UK strategy, the Prime Minister Liz Truss' budgetary strategy or not a strategy in which the Liberal Initiative is concerned? If you don't see it, did you abandon your goal of tax cuts to the highest levels? [[CH and IL protests and L counter-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u81	In reply, Mrs Carla Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, starting with the question addressed to me by Mrs Mariana Mortágua, in a very clear way I will say that we cannot see ourselves in a budget with this type of growth, where there is a decline in investment. Gross fixed capital formation is a very worrying element for the growth potential of this country, where productivity will decrease. We cannot be more clear: we need, defend and have alternatives to a growth strategy in this country, and this budget is neither growth nor reform, and therefore we do not revert to it. I think I'm being extraordinarily clear. In response to the NAP, regarding the rates on extraordinary profits, I would like to recall that extraordinary tax charges are what Portugal has in companies. Extraordinary contributions already exist in Portugal. I remind you again that we have the statutory rate, i.e. the sum of IRC, of spills, the highest in Europe. This is fact, they are not opinions. It is clear, therefore, that we do not agree with an increase in tax burden on companies. Once again, we are being extremely clear on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u83	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u84	Bottomline proposals is something the Liberal Initiative does not have. We cannot be accused in the morning of having a programme full of reforms and in the afternoon of not having them or having no alternatives. In fact, I am very concerned to see one of our concerns, to see and analyze the alternatives and proposals of the Liberal Initiative in the State Budget, a signal, of course, that we are an alternative and we bring proposals to this House, which is very lacking.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u85	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u86	Mr Rui Tavares, there is one thing I have to ask you very directly, which is about whether all your speech is misinformation or ignorance. I do not know how to say any more, but I am going to say again: of the policies that I refer to in England, in particular, where have you forgotten — not only on the tax side, the reduction of the tax burden — of the programme to increase the public expenditure that has been announced? Has the Liberal Initiative ever defended anything near that? And now I ask you: do you think it is serious - and we have explained it several times - to come here to this House to say this? Once and for all, stop misinformed, contribute, talk about alternatives, talk about proposals, come seriously, apply what they say, just to vary from time to time. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[L. Protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u87	Rasteirinho! Rasteirinho!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u88	To make a request for clarification, Mr. Hugo Carneiro, of the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Carla Castro, has come here to talk to us about the Budget, which is a debate that is at the door, but it has been relevant to your intervention. There is something the government has said often and I would like to take advantage of this moment when I can ask you for clarification to ask, of course, what the government says when it says that this is an income strengthening budget. Is this an income-enhancing budget? This is written in the executive summary, the government has - in form, finally, comprehensive publicly, but I would like to highlight the following: we cannot look at this Budget considering only the year of 2023 ; we must add the year of 2022 and the year of 2023, because they are intimately linked. I'd say, they're genetically linked. What we find is that, considering the government's estimates, inflation will be set at 11, 7 % in the two years, and I am being generous when I talk about the government's estimates, because if I consider others the numbers would be others. This means, therefore, that, by adding the increases in pensions in 2022 and 2023, the increases in public servants in 2022 and 2023 and the increases in the IAS ( indexing of social support) in 2022 and 2023, we find that in pensions there is a loss of purchasing power of 6, 2 %, in public employees the loss of purchasing power is 8, 1 % and even in the IAS - see, this leads to quite alarming - that the PS says it will increase 8 % in the year of 2023, if we add up to the increase of 2022 and considering the value of inflation, there is a loss of 3, 7 %. How can we say that this is an income recovery budget? Mrs Carla Castro, I know she's a sensible person and therefore I would like to ask you if she does the same analysis as the PSD. It is that this is not an income recovery budget, this is a budget that crushes Portuguese income, deceiving Portuguese with fake news, when it is said to open the executive summary of the State budget for 2023 — and that is the fake news — that this is an income recovery budget. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u90	To request clarification on behalf of the CFP, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Carla Castro, the CFP has already stressed that this proposal for a State Budget submitted by the Government does not respond to the problems affecting Portuguese workers and people and is a factor in exacerbating inequalities and injustices. It is not a budget of confidence in the future, as the government says, but a budget of commitment to the future. This budget may have many tricks and masks, as the honourable Member has said, but we agree that the essential of the political options is well in view, i.e. this is a budget which enshrines the impoverishment of the vast majority of Portuguese, the loss of purchasing power of workers and pensioners, but which has been pointed out for the benefit of the large economic groups, including at the tax level. Mrs Deputie spoke recently at the IRC statutory rate because she is invited to tell us about the effective rate of IRC which is paid by large companies, in particular by the bank. What this budget proposal points to is: the possibility given to large economic groups to drastically reduce or even cancel taxes which have an obligation to pay, without a temporary limit, the deferral of tax losses, among other benefits; the extension of the State budget financing to private groups of the disease, in particular with EUR 9700 million for the purchase of health services by the Ministry; the substantial increase of this money; the refusal to hire workers for public services, with emphasis on the SNS (National Health Service ) and public school; and the option for labour precaution and the use of the outsourcing of extraordinary services and hours; the strangulation of public investment or the refusal to combat the speculation of prices — such as those in energy, but also in other sectors, such as the large distribution — by opting to mobilise public resources that should ensure and support the extraordinary profits of these companies. Now, with these policy options translated into the Budget, benefiting economic groups with tax buds, suffocating public services and exacerbating the impoverishment of workers, the question we ask is whether you disagree with this or whether the problem is to find little. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u92	The last request for clarification to Mrs Carla Castro belongs to Mr Sérgio Ávila of the PS. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it has resolved the Liberal Initiative to anticipate the discussion of the State budget, perhaps to omit and not to mention what was the most structural and relevant fact of last week, which was the medium-term agreement to improve income, wages and competitiveness, which covered all social dialogue.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u94	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u95	For this reason, and first of all, the next year's State Budget is not only the Government State Budget, it is not only the State Budget of the Socialist Party, it is the first step in fulfilling the commitment signed in social consultation, the first step in fulfilling the commitment established with the various social partners, in a medium-term planning strategy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, it is not the State budget only of a government, it is not the State budget only of a party, it is a State budget based on this strategy and in this medium-term agreement. Secondly, it is a State budget that clearly achieves the reconciliation of three objectives: strengthening income, promoting investment and reducing public debt. None of the approaches made by any of the parties during this debate was able to ensure that these three objectives were met. Any one of these three objectives has been called into question, and it is only possible to have a sustainable, balanced, growth, development and income recovery strategy if we can achieve our proposals to meet the three objectives of the properly quantified State budget — to increase income, promote investment and reduce public debt. in this context, a set of measures was mentioned, but it is good to say that, from a structural point of view, in terms of budgetary impact, of budgetary measures, either through the reduction in structural tax, either through the increase in expenditure, either for the recovery of salaries or for social support for pensions, the next year's State budget reflects a budgetary effort of EUR 4578 million. Some will say that it is a lot, others will say that it is little, but it is the effort that results from the consultation with the social partners that ensures sustainability for the future of our country, because, at the same time that it promotes the increase and increase of income in its various components, particularly those that have less income, promotes investment, whether private investment or public investment, and ensures the reduction of public debt, which is a structural factor so that what is spent today is not paid tomorrow for more than what we can bear. Therefore, more than a State Budget, this document is the realization of the first stage of a historic agreement signed in social consultation with the various social partners, and it is the beginning of the fulfilment of this structural commitment for the future of our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u96	In reply, Mrs Carla Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps, I would like to begin by referring to the comment that the Socialist Party Member made on the anticipation of this debate. I should like to ask the Government what it has to say about the fact that every day it is holding press conferences on the subject. So I don't think the Liberal Initiative is anticipating anything.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u98	The agreement itself was in advance of the Budget!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u99	Anyway, I wanted to thank the questions of both rounds and apologize because I forgot to answer a few minutes ago on the subject of agriculture. The Liberal Initiative, unlike the expectations of many, presented in its programme, and has defended in its daily work, the primary sector—and the area of agriculture—, which has been little dignified, being a very important economic sector and which, from a governmental point of view, has simply been abandoned. We have concrete proposals,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u100	Are they not against the CAP ( Confederation of Farmers of Portugal )? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u101	... ranging from the exploitation of activity, to young people, to licensing—they are many, but today is not a debate on agriculture—and they go through an effective policy of water and irrigation, but we will certainly have an opportunity to debate. Regarding the PSD questions, which I also thank, in particular on whether I agree that the Budget crushes and deceives, the answer is clear: yes. But I would like to add something, which is about income strengthening. Interestingly, it also reinforces income, it is not those of families, it is those of the state,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u102	... consolidates those of the State. Just look at tax revenues and we'll see the detail again in the next few days. As for the CFP, I am not going to repeat myself on the question of the excessive and record burden of taxes on companies in Portugal, but I would like to tell you that, on the tax damage regime, once and for all, it is good that we look at the best tax systems, and with that I say of competitive and rich countries. The best practices are to be adapted and we should look at the best and not the worst. And therefore this is one of the measures. There should certainly be something in document size that we would agree with, and in this we agree.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u103	I'll see you soon!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u104	We will certainly have a very interesting debate in the coming weeks on the State budget and, once again, the Liberal Initiative will distinguish itself from the alternative and seriousness of the discussions. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u105	In the political statements, the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival follows, and I give the floor to Mrs Rita Matias.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The arrival brings to this plenary today some of those who are your concerns regarding higher education. And we could not begin an intervention on this subject without a word of greeting to all young Portuguese people who started their academic journey, dreaming of a free space of thought where knowledge is scientific, is objective and is depoliticized. However, young people today encounter sentiose curricula, ideological and militant teaching and intoxicated institutions of Marxist theories. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u107	At universities, more and more, science loses the central place for ideology and all this has been translated into discrimination and hostility of all those who think differently and who break with the single thought chains. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I speak of young patriots who love and defend their country, and for all of them I leave our message of courage: do not walk alone! [[Congrats from the CH.]] But speaking of higher education today is to remember the more than 5000 young people who applied for higher education, were placed in 1. the phase and did not complete its registration. Although they are trying to cover the sun with the pier, it is too obvious that the economic suffocation in which Portuguese families are found is preventing these young people from gaining access to higher education. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u108	And to talk about higher education today is to remember that, year after year, about 12% of young students leave their academic course just in the first year of their graduation. And speaking of higher education today is to remember that, according to the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ), more than 60 % of Portuguese students are unable to meet their curriculum in the first three years of their academic life. And speaking of higher education today is to remember that, according to OECD, 20% of Portuguese women enrolled in universities cannot complete their studies. But also the men are staying behind. It tells us the same study that 40% of young boys do not complete the first cycle of studies. And about this little is being said, because fashion, in this House, is to pursue the supposed ruling classes, the supposed patriarchate, in a blind attempt to repair supposed historical debts. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Speaking of higher education today is to remember the significant increase in applications for scholarships. This year, more than 65 000 students are seeking support, representing an increase of 16 % of applications compared to the same period of the previous year. All these data reveal an unmistakable truth: the state has failed Portuguese young people, the socialist government has failed and continues to fail with university students. They can now come to the new State budget and present new proposals, supplements and support, but all of this is absolutely insufficient. The accommodation is insufficient. And it is not I who say it, the Socialist Government, in its National Plan for Higher Education Housing, in which it admits that for the more than 175 000 displaced students there is only one offer of 15 000 beds — 15 000 does not reach even 9 % of the needs of Portuguese students — a plan presented in 2018 and that at this time there were more than 12 000 beds.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u109	Where are they? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u110	Four years later, we concluded that there was no enlargement. At the beginning of the school year, Mr Elvira Fortunato asked for clarification on this matter and the Minister once again ignored the third political force in this Parliament. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u111	And the Socialist Party tells us, in this new budget, that it will now be and that it will begin the works and investment in more infrastructures. However, and imagining that this time — unlike all other projects and programmes related to young people — the government even fulfills its promise, the targets will be reached in 2026. My dear ones, 2026 means that the young man who is a cheerleader this school year, if he survives the academic context in this time of crisis, will be in the last year of his graduation or, eventually, he has already completed his course.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u112	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u113	The important thing, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's now. Young people need immediate solutions, not next Monday or next decade. [[Congrats from the CH.]] What young people now know is that there has been a reduction of about 80% of the private rooms available and that room prices are shooting in sight. And in view of this, the Government now proposes in the new budget a'small support' of €288 per month, which will not cover 15 000 students. What's important to say, sirs. Members, it is only in this academic year that the average cost of a room in port increased from 250 € to 324 € monthly and, in Lisbon, it increased by about 55 € per month, setting itself at 381 € — exorbitant values for minimum rooms and beds in expenses, without decent conditions. Young Portuguese students don't live, they survive.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u114	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u115	This is a scenario that is only expected to get worse and the answers are insufficient. You're on the alert, ladies and gentlemen. Members: it is not enough to budget. There we will be to examine the application of the funds and to demand responsibilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u116	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u117	Identifying this shortage, the arrival will present a bill calling for the reduction of tax from 28 % to 10 % of all landlords who enter into housing contracts with higher education students. I invite all those who say they are concerned about this reality to approve such a proposal, otherwise they admit that your blocking position to arrive is a hypocrisy, because they prefer to be more faithful to political calculations than to the young Portuguese. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, higher education must be taken seriously. It is of no use to extend the number of vacancies if they do not ensure the conditions necessary for students. It is of no use to celebrate the second largest number of students always if most students have to leave the studies due to lack of economic conditions. Of no use is the sacrifice of families to invest in the qualification of their children if, in the end, children have only the open doors to emigrate. The needs are visible and evident — a general increase in the prices that makes it more difficult to bear food costs; lack of beds; lack of support for the integration of young people in the academic context; lack of mental health professionals; lack of support for university sports and promotion of a healthy lifestyle; lack of support for students with special needs and motor difficulties. It is that in this country playing, a young man in wheelchair is prevented from attending higher education because there is no one helping him in eating or accessing the bathroom. Here you go, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's the bathrooms that need to worry about you, and not the bathrooms and the mixed gender ideologies that they want to create. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Country shame, which closes the eyes of young people with special needs and prevents them from reaching colleges, destroying their dreams and condemning them to subsidiarity. Young people don't want subsidies, they want to contribute to the country. I conclude by saying that these are the concerns of young students, who want to see our debates and proposals poured out. If you don't understand this, then you don't realize anything about the reality of a young Portuguese. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u118	Mrs. Members, the Bureau does not record requests for clarification, so that we proceed to the next political declaration.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u119	Shut up!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u120	The next political statement is the PSD and to do so, Mrs Emília Cerqueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Over the past few weeks, the country has been instigated by several cases of opacity by various government members concerning the legal regime governing the activity of political office holders and high public positions. As « Pandora's box », the cases have happened: that of the Minister of Territorial Cohesion, Ana Abrunhosa, followed by the Minister of Health, Manuel Pizarro, the Minister of Infrastructure and Housing, Pedro Nuno Santos, and more recently that of the Secretary of State for Conservation of Nature and that of the Secretary of State for Fisheries. One case after the other. It seems that this government has forgotten — or has pretended to forget — that the reason why it imposes limits on the conduct of business of political office holders with the State is because they can represent business on their own. And that reason clearly shows that it is essential to create legal boundaries and boundaries of what can and cannot be done. In addition to the other cases I mentioned, it came to the public that a company of the Minister of Infrastructure practiced business with the State. In this regard, the PSD, in the course of what it has been saying since Friday, reaffirms that Minister Pedro Nuno Santos has to clarify the Portuguese so that they know whether the facts are true to him or not. It is a requirement for political accountability, it is an obligation for transparency that a member of the government has a duty to do spontaneously and not because this is what is being done. Minister Pedro Nuno Santos, always so eloquent to comment on everything and everyone, owes this clarification to the country, and he should not give us this noisy silence. If you do not, this is a duty of transparency in the exercise of political positions, you will have to be the Prime Minister to do so, because it is unbearable this silence which thickens and spreads the climate of suspicion to all those who dedicate themselves to the public cause.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u122	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u123	The PSD will not embark on the assumption that the truth of the facts is the result of any journalistic investigation and hence draw conclusions that can be precipitated — that we leave to others! — but you will ask the Minister to clarify this matter immediately. It is a matter of fulfilling the duty of clarification that electors owe to voters and that the rulers owe to those who are governed themselves. Nor will the PSD let itself be entangled in criticisms of the clarity of the law. We will only say the following: if you confirm the facts that have been attributed to Minister Pedro Nuno Santos, they are regulated, without any doubt, in the law that is clear and crystalline. Just read it. But, then, if it is so simple, if the law is so clear, what does the opinion of the Advisory Council of the Attorney-General of the Republic mean after all? It's easy. It refers only to companies which are detained by more than 10 % exclusively by members of the political office holder, but which are not part of it. To make it even clearer: if the holder of the political office has more than 10 % of society, what happens? Answer: this company cannot participate in public procurement procedures. What if the political position holder has more than 10 % of the society together with family members? Simple answer: this company cannot participate in public procurement procedures. What if the political officer has no participation and only his family members? Simple answer also: it is here, and only here, that the opinion of the Attorney-General of the Republic applies. It's simple, isn't it? So if it is so simple, why did the government, through the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, try to deceive people, making them believe that the opinion applied to such a situation, when the opinion applies to situations where companies are only family members, without any participation from the political position holder? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u124	Of course it is not the same thing, of course the government knows that. And, as all of this knows, it is clear that the government will intentionally try to throw sand into people's eyes and thus deceive the Portuguese. It is a regrettable, reprehensible political stance that at nothing contributes to the dignity of the political class and of those who are at the service of the public cause. The law is what assigns force of general obligation and jus and ethics to a society. What we have here is a consolidated and effective law. How, then, can it be understood that one wants now, at the last hour, pending the application of a law in force for more than three years, to discuss the fairness of its formulation? The law is neither good nor bad, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. It's not fair or unfair. The law is law—hard lex, sed lex—and it represents exactly what political parties believe is necessary to safeguard the legal good of transparency. That is why the declarations that have now been questioned by the law are incomprehensible whether it is excessive or not. The PS is now talking about revisiting the law. The same PS, to please management, we assumed, was his great worker, only having justification for such statements because the law became an awkward one. But that's not the point. It is not at issue to discuss the justice or injustice of this law, because it is in force. We are not discussing proposals or bills, we are discussing the application of a law of the Republic, Mrs and Mrs. Members, a law which is in force and which is a law of the Republic. In fact, it is not too much to remember that in a rule of law there is respect for the principle of the application of law over time. And even if the law changed, this did not change the reality that the facts were practised under this law, which cannot be ignored by the competent judicial authorities. Therefore, the PSD will not allow it to pass the idea of a certain impunity on to socialist leaders, as if the laws were not applied to them. The PSD knows very well what you voted for. The PSD believes deeply in the rule of law and in the regular functioning of justice. The PSD requires that the principle of legality not be called into question. The PSD does not allow discussion of laws pending their application with the sole purpose of adjusting to the need for each moment, which is why we demand that Minister Pedro Nuno Santos and other members of the Government confirm or deny the facts they are charged with. [[PSD applause.]] In the event of confirmation of their veracity, the Constitutional Court shall apply the penalties provided for in the law by impulse of the Public Prosecutor's Office. We cannot resign ourselves from our obligation to clarify and democracy. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u125	Madam Member, the Bureau has registered five entries for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u126	I will respond first to two and then to three, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u127	Thus, the first request for clarification lies with Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u128	Mr President, Mrs Emília Cerqueira, I congratulate you on your taking part in this debate on incompatibilities and impediments. [[PS laughter.]] I would like to ask you a very direct question, starting with the reading that the President of the Republic has made of the message of the President of the Republic. The message from the President of the Republic says that he wants the Assembly of the Republic to clarify the law in force with regard to incompatibilities and impediments. I find it extraordinary that Mr President of the Republic does so in a message to the Assembly of the Republic in which he says that the legislative framework is based on six laws, when two of which he indicates are repealed and the others are being applied, but they concern different issues. It is that, with regard to incompatibilities and impediments, there is only one law in force. I think it is at least questionable that the first judge of the nation, who is a doctor of law, sends a message to the Assembly of the Republic in which he makes a legislative framework by placing on the table two laws which are already repealed. It should not be out of ignorance — it certainly will not — and should not be out of misinformed — it will not, either, because if you do not know, you have legal advisers to do so — but I do not know why. I therefore ask the honourable Member: is there any reason why the President of the Republic would like to launch some sort of suspicions about the application of the law of incompatibilities and impediments to whom he has political positions or high public positions? What is it? I do not understand this, at a time when it seems obvious and unequivocal that the law is clear, simple, direct and, moreover, it is in force and applies to any and any of us who is in the performance of high public office or political office. The PSD came to say that it would have an opening to review the law. Between this position and what Mrs Deputies said in her speech, I doubted and, to take them out, I ask her the question very directly: did you vote on the PSD something that you do not believe or believe in the law that is in force? Does the PSD consider that the law in force is clear and transparent and deserves no doubt as to its interpretation? the message of Mr President of the Republic — which is now part of the legal framework of the Government itself — there is an opinion that does not apply to the law which is currently in force and there is a second opinion that what he says is obscure is not the law, is the situation that the law does not eliminate, which is the possibility of the leader or ruler to be able to decide on the basis of the distribution of Community funds. That is why, once again, the message from the President of the Republic seems to be confusing, where there is clear clarity. There is an opinion which does not apply to the law currently in force and there is another opinion whose opinion is that the law does not go far enough to protect the public interest. I should like to conclude by asking the honourable Member to answer the questions I have asked, because it seems to me that this matter needs, above all, serenity and a request which is unequivocal: as far as the law is concerned, that the Constitutional Court and the Public Prosecutor, together with the Constitutional Court, ensure the functioning of the law and that the Entity for Transparency is in effect as soon as possible. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u129	Mr Rui Paulo Sousa has the floor to ask for clarification on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Deputies, the PSD came here today to speak in transparency, because it is also coincidentally on the day when the President of the Republic sent a communication to the House on this matter, which, in fact, has been on the agenda. I'm talking about the impedance regime. This at a time when cases with the members of the current government occur almost daily — cases such as Minister Pedro Nuno Santos, Minister Ana Abrunhosa or Minister Manuel Pizarro. Finally, it is already worth asking which ministers of the current government who do not have family members involved in business with the State or with the various areas that they protect.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u131	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u132	« Families First»!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u133	But in spite of all these cases, when the arrival brought a request for an opinion to the Transparency Committee of the same House on a possible conflict of interest of Minister Manuel Pizarro, due to being married to the current Shipyard of the Order of Nutritionists, Alexandra Bento, the same was plunged by all parties, including by the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u134	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u135	Of course, they will say that the Transparency Committee, despite its name 'Transparency', had no competence to give such an opinion, but what we have seen is that in this House opinions and competences vary according to who asks them and who is intended for them. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mrs Emília Cerqueira, the Arrival submitted Bill No. 45 / XV / 1. a, amending the regime of the exercise of functions by holders of political positions and high public positions in order to limit business with family members. in this project, the Czech Republic proposes several amendments to the law in force to prevent or hinder such situations, including the prohibition of any contracts with undertakings with which the holder is holding participation — regardless of being more than 10 % — as well as undertakings with family members close to the holder, including ascendant, descendant, spouse or de facto joint ventures. The existence of impediments provided for in the law has the function of ensuring strict compliance with the principles of equality, impartiality and transparency, and that is what is intended with this bill. Mrs Emília Cerqueira, the question I ask you is: is the PSD willing to accompany the arrival in this bill? I also ask you whether the PSD, which seems to be so concerned with transparency, will accompany the arrival next day 21, in its appeal to the Government on all these cases of impediments that have arisen. Or will he do as in the case of chemical castration, where he placed himself next to the whole left? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u136	In reply, Mrs Emília Cerqueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u137	Mr President, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, I begin by thanking you for your question and saying that I do not judge the intentions of the President of the Republic. I am therefore unable to answer what Mr President's thinking is. I advise, in fact, that, at a next meeting or hearing, ask you directly, because I do not do guessing exercises on this matter. As regards the issue of the amendment of the law, I think that, if I heard the political statement I made here today, the answer on this matter was very clear. [[Protests from BE Pedro Filipe Soares.]] What we have said is that, at this moment, the application of the law and the one that has been the PSD matrix over time is not to change the law to the trailer of the moment, of the media case and of the instant, which does not mean, as it is obvious from a responsible party—a party with long history in our democracy—that the laws are not revisitable when it makes sense, I repeat, but not to the trailer of any media case. We must never confuse the two realities, Mr President. If I wonder if the PSD is willing to change the law to a tow in a media case, if you have listened to the statements of the president of our party, you will immediately realize that you do not. If the PSD is willing to revisit legislation, whatever it is, obviously yes, when it is justified to realize that the law needs adjustments. Yes! PSD is always in the solution and not in the problem. [[PSD applause.]] Mr Rui Paulo Sousa has raised two questions — in fact, these are two very different questions that he has tried to confuse here — but it seems to me, with all due respect, that he does not want to discuss this matter. Mr President, on the first question, on the request for an opinion in the Committee on Transparency, there are formal questions and material questions. The Transparency Committee is objectively incompetent and therefore has not ruled on the merit of your ideas. Or if you comply with the law, as the PSD says — the laws are to comply, tough lex, sed lex — or not met. We respect them all, even those who do not agree to arrive. As for the other initiatives you have mentioned here, they will have their time to be discussed, Mr President. I'm sorry that you arrive, it seems to me, you don't want to discuss seriously what is being discussed today and you want to distract us with other projects and other things in the future, wanting to discuss everything but the essential. [[PSD applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u138	Mr Rodrigo Saraiva, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u139	Mr President, Mr Emília Cerqueira, indeed in recent times we have seen a number of cases involving government members. They're not all alike. There are some who are clearly legal and are within ethics, others in which is exactly the opposite. But these are not the only situations in the forum of surrealism that have happened in recent times. Even this missive we have received from Mr President of the Republic is a bit strange, and it is also strange that — returning to the cases involving some members of the Government and, in particular, two of them — it is not clear why they have not used remedies which the law provides. For example, they did not need to waste time — there are processes that take some time, because of the sale of shares, but could use one of the figures that the law provides, which is the suspension of shares. Therefore, we also fail to understand why they were not on such a simple path, which avoided all this situation and the time that we all lost and that the country loses discussing these cases. There is one thing, for us, that becomes very clear in these situations: the extreme need of the Transparency Entity to start working, once and for all.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u140	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u141	There are those who are responsible for having to train and create the conditions for the Transparency Entity to start working, as it should have already begun, with the skills that are planned for it in the future until we can deepen the competences of that entity so that it can function autonomously and effectively. I had a question to ask the honourable Member, but he has already answered about it to the Member of the Left Block, who is thought to be legislated on cases or houses. This is a species of what has happened in recent years: from revision to confusion. Madam Member, have I not yet understood the following: in the PSD's view, is the current legislation useful or not? This is an objective question. By not serving what is being done—because we think that legislation should have another kind of framework and we are available to make a quiet and calm legislative process, not attached to cases, on the subject as a whole—in the PSD's view, should the path be more restrictive and should'strengthening the mesh' or should it be a different path, to focus on the illegal legislation of favouring? Even because, as far as this favour is concerned, we are always talking only about the issue of family members, but even since recent history, there are those who do favor not family members but friends who are very good at them. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u142	For a request for clarification, I give the floor to Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Emília Cerqueira, thank you very much for your intervention. I have two or three previous questions, in which it is important to underline why we are taking this debate. One of the reasons why it is possible for Portuguese society to vote is not because there is opacity, but precisely because legislative initiatives in recent decades and until recent years have substantially reduced opacity, allowing declarations of the interests of government members and Members to be available for consultation more immediately and ensuring that public procurement through the BASE Portal is available. If we are having this debate today, it is not for reasons of opacity, it is because transparency allows this debate to take place and it is going on. [[P.S.'s applause.]] To a large extent, some of the questions you have left have been answered precisely in many of these places. He has raised several questions. Well, the members of the Government did not exempt themselves from providing clarification to the media that requested them, but in addition, any citizen — the Member of Parliament, including — may consult the register of interests, available on the website of the Assembly of the Republic, and to clarify directly the doubts concerning the ownership of social participation, and others, on their own premises, where all the cases listed have always declared their social participations and those of the rest. Therefore, everything is available for consultation and it is precisely this factor that allows all citizens to make such scrutiny. I am referring now to the second part of the debate. That is the point at which I disagree with your speech, Mrs Deputy, when I spoke about the opacity of the problem. in this case, it is not a problem of opacity, it is a problem, this relevant yes, about interpretative doubts of the law and that, whether you like it or not, has accompanied democracy over these more than 40 years. I believe that no parliamentary group with seats in this House can boast—and I speak even on behalf of my own group—of the idea that you have never legislated behind specific cases. The history of legislation on incompatibilities and impediments in the Portuguese Republic since 1976 is the history of legislating impulses, all done on the basis of the situation detected here or the problem detected here, which, of course, when it produces an irreflective debate that invites populism and without proper weighting, is a problem, but, in many cases, it is the debate that you have, you can and should do, because it is the one that makes it fit the expectations of the citizens. over the past 40 years, the demands of citizens have changed. There are things that today, from the perspective of community consciousness, are clearly reprehensible and that were not 30 years ago. There are subjects, such as the rules of public procurement, which have evolved and changed. In fact, the legal configurations of public legal persons are not the same as they were 20 or 30 years ago, so it extends the perimeter, the edge and the identification of who is who can and cannot have intervention. They are, in fact, complex legal issues which do not resolve with a brushstroke and if not even the President of the Republic — Mr Pedro Filipe Soares well identified — in the message he addressed to the Assembly of the Republic, he was able to identify the legislation that is in effect in force and which resulted from the work of this Chamber to simplify it and to increase transparency, in fact we have a starting problem there. Now, in view of what the honourable Member has said, we have the PSD — and there is this availability, which we have expressed at various times — to look at the law and improve cases where there are doubts. One point is certain: there are doubts and why there are doubts, and I know - it is because there is an intervention by the Advisory Council of the Attorney-General of the Republic, a no, indeed two, because it did the interpretation of two legislative acts which, on the one hand, were unclear in the scope of what they proposed and, on the other hand, appeared to go too far in the restriction of fundamental rights and offered solutions that were not balanced.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u144	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u145	I shall conclude, Mr President. I leave a question, although, in a way, the honourable Member has already answered. I ask, therefore, in view of the responsibility which the honourable Member has given, whether the PSD is available to, in a serious and balanced exercise, exorcising the populists who are looking for these moments to attack the institutions, to do the process of review of the law, which will improve for all the transparency and integrity of the institutions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u146	For the last request for clarification, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Emília Cerqueira, I begin by complimenting you and telling you that, on the concrete issue and the case with more centrality, we understand that all the clarifications are necessary so that there is no doubt about this situation. And it must be ensured that there is indeed no undue benefit and that the law is scrupulously fulfilled.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u148	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u149	But, regardless of the clarification of this situation in particular, until we have had situations that raise precisely the same issues over the decades, especially with regard to executive power, also what cannot be scaled up is the subordination of political power to economic power, which is not a new problem, is a structural problem. The subordination of political power to the economy is seen in the most varied ways — we look at the ruinous privatizations, the PPPs (public-private partnerships), which are a money ice cream. Moreover, let us see the allocation of tax benefits to large economic groups, as it is now happening with this Budget and with this income agreement. In this respect, in fact, there are no laws that apply because, more than the holders themselves, we need to see what they do with the title and position, whether they are used for particular benefit, personal or other purposes or put the public interest first.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u150	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u151	Now, we have had well-known cases in which those who benefit or benefit others are not even familiar. For example, I speak of well-known cases, and it is a fact that speaks for you, of former government ministers who negotiated PPPs and today are administrators of those PPPs. That is, there are no family ties, but everything remains in the same family,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u152	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u153	... while the public interest, the transparency and trust of people are already behind. Therefore, the question I would like to ask, Mrs Deputies, is whether you do not think this goes beyond a legal matter and is much more related to the holders and their use of the office, in particular whether they serve the public interest or the private interest. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u154	In reply, Mrs Emília Cerqueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u155	Mr President, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva, much of the issues you have raised has to do with the intervention I have made and which reveals the positions of the PSD. With regard to the question whether we think that the road is'strengthening the mesh' or not, Mr President, these are those questions which, in the course of what I have said, can be thought of in the future, by maturing on which way we want to go, and not at the moment when the situation is effervescent, where there is no rationality with the weighting and calm that require matters of this sensitivity. So this is not the time, this time is to apply the law, it is to see how far we are all subject and we respect the law, because we have to subject ourselves to it when we do not like it. This is a consideration for the future, because, as I said — and said the President of the PSD — this is not a matter of speeding up legislation on a particular case, but it is now a series of them. What is really important in this matter is that we do not allow one case or another to cause an anathema of suspicion on all those who are in public life. That cannot be, however, the terrible risk for all of us to become the whole part, that is, when there is a prevaricator, all of them become predators, so we have to fight this and one of the ways of fighting is precisely not embarking on the legislative changes to run, in a hurry, without weighting, without maturation. That's not our way of being. Mr Delgado Alves, I would like to thank you for the question you have raised, although you think there was a contradiction in what you said, if I may, when you referred to the situation of opacity and transparency. That's not what I said, sir. The question is that the position of the holders of the political positions in question is contributing to an opacity rather than transparency. When specific issues arose, Mr President, in particular the opinions, it would have been important that, rather than concealing a point of law, if they had used all the points and if they had clarified everything that had to be clarified. Then, yes, no attempt was made to deceive the Portuguese. I believe that no one is going to win this, but — as the honourable Member himself eventually admitted — we are used to sometimes getting law enforcement in a hurry because there are always cases. And the honourable Member has just mentioned cases, and he is actually right, because the PS has been used to this bell.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u156	Maybe it's not just the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u157	As far as legislation is concerned, I am keeping what I said: we will always be serious about making any legislative amendment. Mrs Alma Rivera, it seems to me that many of the issues you have raised have nothing to do with this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u158	That's what everyone says!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u159	I understand them perfectly taking into account the ideology of the PCP, its agenda against the economy, against privatization, against PPPs, against everything that is private. That's not our ideology. What we are interested in — and that is why we are here today — is that there is indeed transparency in public activity. And transparency does not mean a bond of politicians being civil servants who cannot have their own lives. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u160	We are now listening to the political declaration of the Portuguese Communist Party, so I give the floor to Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: TAP is strategic for the country and therefore Portugal cannot be dependent on the interests of foreign multinationals. It is also strategic for territorial cohesion, particularly in the links to the Autonomous Regions, in the links to Portuguese communities and Portuguese-speaking countries, and, taking advantage of our privileged location, in intercontinental links, especially Europe, America and Africa. Does anyone have illusions that if TAP is privatized and managed by a multinational, as the PS, PSD and IL intend, will these strategic objectives for our country be present? Look at ANA ( Airports and Air Navigation ), EDP ( Energies of Portugal ), Galp or CTT ( Correios de Portugal ) and tell yourself if it is the national interest that determines its action today. What happens to dictate TAP's operation? It will be the interests of these multinationals to the detriment of Portugal's interests. Who wins? It's the economic groups. Who loses? We all lose, the country, the Portuguese people, which is left without a fundamental instrument for our development and our sovereignty. The main problem with TAP is that in the last 30 years, she has always been prepared to be privatized.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u162	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u163	The successive privatisations and attempts to privatize were a disaster, cost hundreds of millions of euros to the Portuguese TAP and the Portuguese State and are responsible for the TAP not to affirm a coherent path to the service of national interests. The sale of TAP to Swissair ended up not being realized due to its failure. There was a new attempt to sell, this time to the already failed Avianca, aborted hours before its realization due to the lack of guarantees of the buyer.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u164	Exactly! In 2012!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u165	Then there was the sale of TAP to David Neeleman, who, while he was there, did nothing more than pick up the company in favor of Blue, until he was able to take more advantage. When difficulties arose with the epidemic, David Neeleman and his iron heads simply disappeared. at the same time, SPdH / Groundforce already goes into its fourth privatization, each bringing new damage to TAP, in addition to TAP having saved Portugal after the BES ( Banco Espírito Santo ) in the aviation sector. To aggravate this situation, the PSD/CDS government has privatized ANA, with profound negative impacts on TAP, not only by imposing the sale of free shops, whose profits now remain in ANA / Vinci, but also by increasing revenues and rentals and by subordinated airport infrastructures to its purpose of maximizing profit and by stopping the construction of the new Lisbon airport at the Alcochete Shooting Camp, which is fundamental to the growth of TAP, for its hub and for its maintenance and engineering. This is what PS, PSD and IL are trying to hide. A TAP at the service of the people and the country is only possible with its public control. It is proven that the privatisation of TAP is not a solution. The fact that the PS Government, with the comfort of the PSD and the IL, insists on the privatization of the TAP, as expressed here by the Prime Minister, reveals the option of subordination to the interests of the economic groups and also the submission to the European Commission for the destruction of the TAP, concentrating the aviation sector on two or three major companies. It is not by chance that the European Commission imposed a restructuring plan for the TAP, which the PS Government and the PSD have announced, but this has not been required for Air France or Lufthansa, companies which had much more support than the TAP authorised. A restructuring plan that imposed the reduction of the number of workers, which imposed the cut in wages, which imposed the loss of slots to assign to the companies so called low cost. A restructuring plan leading to a reduction in the operation of TAP and which, if not reversed, will lead to its destruction.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u166	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u167	At the time, the PCP presented a contingency plan for the TAP in order to protect all jobs and workers' incomes, safeguarding their fleet and their ability to have conditions to resume the activity. This was not the option of PS and PSD. Worldwide, there was a need for intervention in airlines. IATA ( The International Air Transport Association ) accounts for more than 300 billion euros of public support, TAP even from the companies that had less public investment, yet there is no lack of demagogy, hypocrisy and lies about the support given to TAP due to the impact of the epidemic, in a black campaign to facilitate the delivery of a major strategic enterprise to foreign capital. Some say it would be preferable to have let the company destroy, passing on the idea that it would have no costs for the country, but it is necessary to tell the truth. The destruction of the TAP Group, in addition to involving loss of sovereignty and leaving the country completely dependent on foreign countries, would send more than 10 000 workers to unemployment, would cost the country many hundreds of millions of euros in social benefits, another in compensation and the end of 3, 4 billion euros in exports, which corresponds to the values of sales abroad in 2019. And in the post-COVID, it would further delay the recovery of strategic sectors for tourism, as they would know until the Liberal Initiative and the PSD if ideological obstination did not blind them to the causes of chaos that occurred in civil aviation in Europe in May and June this year. When they now shake the threats that TAP will disappear if it is not privatized, it is important to remember that it was exactly that same statement that they repeated to exhaustion to impose the sale of TAP to Swissair. Now, Swissair has failed and disappeared and, if TAP still exists today, it is because this inevitable privatization has not advanced.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u168	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u169	No, the privatization and destruction of the TAP that PS, PSD and others defend only serves the interests of large foreign capital. TAP is necessary and can give much to the country, there is investment and clear political orientation in its defence. TAP is needed for the country as a national company and will only be national as a public company. [[PCP applause.]] [[In the meantime, he took the presidency of Vice-President Adam Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u170	I begin by congratulating the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Paula Santos, Mrs Santos, wrote to make requests for clarification. Members Hugo Oliveira, Bruno Nunes, Paulo Rios de Oliveira, Bernardo Blanco and Mariana Mortágua. Since you want to answer in two groups, Mr Hugo Oliveira of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has already spoken.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Paula Santos, in the Socialist Party — in the Government of the Socialist Party — we have always considered TAP a strategic company for the country. Even when we increased the capital of the state in the company, we said already at that time that we wanted to find a partner who was strategic to accompany us in the management of the company.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u172	Call him a strategic partner!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u173	It is not something new, nor is it something that has been presented today, as, in fact, with a simple research, we can easily prove. I bring one of the many reports that prove it, published in the News Journal of 21 December 2021, which I read: « 'It is clear to us that in a highly competitive aviation business, an airline does not survive isolated and therefore we are working so that TAP can be in an important aviation group, because this is the most solid and consistent way of achieving viability', said the Minister of Infrastructure, Pedro Nuno Santos, at a press conference in Lisbon, after the 'green light' of the European Commission to the restructuring plan of the airline. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u174	But was it him or Dad?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u175	Therefore, we continue to consider, as we have always considered, that a strategic partner for TAP is important, because it will allow it to increase sales, reduce costs with suppliers and create a series of synergies that will certainly make it much more competitive. In fact, it is even this interest of several airlines to enter the capital of TAP that reveals confidence in their future, a confidence that comes from the strategic recovery plan that has been applied. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Paula Santos, the question I wanted to ask you — recognizing the interest in defending workers — is whether, for the CFP, a more financially viable TAP will also result in better working conditions in the future, because this is also one of the major concerns of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u176	It was with that argument that thousands have now been sent to the street!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u177	Mr Bruno Nunes has the floor to ask for clarification from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Paula Santos, today the CFP will have the opportunity to answer the question to which it has not been able to answer for 30 years: what do they intend to do to the TAP and what is the restructuring process? You say : « must be a flag company », and we agree; « must keep the essential trade routes to Portugal », and we agree; « must maintain the link to diaspora, so that we do not lose the connection to our emigrants », and we agree. What you do not explain, when they say "we want wage increases here, here and here...", is what you want or what you want, in particular. It's always so much in the air! They look like those planes that, when they're arriving in Lisbon, as they don't know how they're going to land, they're going back to Santarém to spend gasoline. And what you have done to TAP over the past 30 years has actually been spending gasoline without realizing exactly what you want. The honourable Member has made a statement that I would almost say it is financial xenophobia when she said that she does not want foreigners to invest here.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u179	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u180	What the Portuguese want is for TAP to be viable. What the Portuguese don't want is to lose their flag company. We agree with that! But once and for all, at the end of 30 years, they explain what they want to do. on our part—and you all cry out that we are populist and we have no proposals—we already admit that funding to TAP can be made. What we want to know is how TAP will return the money to the Portuguese, which none of the other parties here are interested in knowing.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u181	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u182	Interests, for you and for your party, who injects a lot of money into the TAP, even if everything is buried there; for the Liberal Initiative, it privatizes itself and sells itself to the TAP, all, to the last screw, because this having things belonging to the State is a mess... [[Protests by IL Member João Cotrim Figueiredo.]] They do this for TAP, they do this for everything and something else, they think these situations of privatization are the individual's overlap with social values and they want to increasingly destroy society. That's not where we are! [[Protests of Members of the IL.]] They are very excited, and I also understand why. It is because, for the first time, a topic that they thought was just theirs comes the debate by all others and now they are not afraid to talk for the next few weeks. They no longer know another subject other than TAP, TAP and TAP. [[Congrats from the CH.]] From here, for the Liberal Initiative, the plane landed and nothing else happens. With regard to the Communist Party, what we need to know is, in a serious way, what they indicate as a restructuring of the TAP. Because selling this idea to workers, putting the CGTP-IN (General Confederation of Portuguese Workers-National Interunion) at the airport door trying to leverage more expense in a company that currently does not have financial viability... [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] What we want to know is whether they accompany the arrival on the question of TAP restructuring, in which the important thing is to realize how after the financial injection the money will be returned to Portuguese workers and taxpayers. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u183	For the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Paula Santos, the Socialist Party has transformed TAP into a national tragedy. TAP was a company that accumulated losses year after year and, in 2011 for the punishment of Prime Minister José Socrates, in the famous Memorandum of the Troika, was signed the privatisation of TAP. Who had to do it? The PSD government! And we courageously did.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u185	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u186	However, in 2016, in a patriotic and very socialist access, the Socialist Party decided that it had to nationalize TAP because it was an essential flag company. A flag company that is unknown at the airport of Porto, a flag company that is unknown at the airport of Faro, a flag company that is unknown to most Portuguese, that do not use or access it. But far worse than that, the PS also decided to transport 3200 million euros to the TAP. It's really a lot of money! Just think that it is three times what has been stolen from the future of pensioners and retirees in this country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u187	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u188	With this, not only has it compressed and crushed workers' rights, but it has now been a disgrace: that the restructuring process will not relaunch the TAP and, worse than that, the European Union says that for 10 years there is no more money for the TAP. Now, we know that socialism ends when other people's money runs out. The money of others is ending and so socialism is ending. And when socialism ends, prejudice also ends! [[PSD applause.]] The Socialist Party suddenly discovered that, after all, a strategic partner... discovered that this thing of nationalization was not so productive and then came to find merit in individuals. Madam Member, worse than this is almost impossible, but I would like to hear the opinion of the CFP. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u189	To give this and other answers you have the word Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u190	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your questions. I would like to begin with the questions asked by the Socialist Party, which seems to want to regain the right-wing policy option, so as not to lose the right-wing political forces train and be the great defender of the privatisation of TAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u191	That's the one! [[PS Member Hugo Oliveira's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u192	But what is at stake was taken into account by the political declaration made by the PCP, is that it has been proved that the attempts to privatize them, and privatization itself, were highly harmful to the TAP and the country, with costs of millions and millions of euros for the TAP and the Portuguese State. It is not true that we are isolated and that the TAP is isolated, but what the Socialist Party wants — indeed, with the other political forces on the right — with the process of privatization of the TAP is to transform it into a regional company, leading it to lose its capacity, its activity and not to guarantee these same working conditions to which you referred.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u193	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u194	With regard to finding a strategic partner, it is in view of what this meant in particular following privatization by the PSD and the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u195	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u196	While it was advantageous, resources were withdrawn from the company; when it was no longer interested, it was said, 'Let's go, because we have nothing to do with this.'
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u197	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u198	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u199	And that's what we don't want for our country. I repeat: that is what we do not want for our country. On the issues raised by the Arrival, what I would like to ask the honourable Member, in view of the intervention we have just heard, is whether his party assumes that it is against the return of wages cuts to TAP workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u200	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u201	It is a huge injustice that, in the restructuring plan, was imposed on TAP by the European Union and accepted by the PS and the parties on the right.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u202	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u203	What that means is the reduction in the number of workers, which today are necessary for the TAP to maintain its operation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u204	And we warned! We warned you!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u205	What is needed today is to guarantee the wages and rights of workers, precisely to fix them in the TAP,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u206	Of course, but it seems to be a problem for him.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u207	... because there has been a very significant output of workers that are necessary for their operation and maintenance. It is also important to clarify that what was ruinous for TAP was business with a number of private groups, which removed a set of resources. Let us look at the official data on this subject: in the last 10 years, TAP S.A. the profit in six and the losses resulted, above all, from the years when the TAP was privatized.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u208	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u209	The question was not that!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u210	So it is clear here that it is a viable and necessary company for our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u211	He didn't answer us!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u212	They were 30 years old to answer, but they don't answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u213	in the last aspect, I would like to point out, Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira, that we argue that one of the TAP's responsibilities is, of course, to ensure territorial cohesion, as well as a greater response and service to the various regions of our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u214	But that's not happening!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u215	He has never heard anything contrary from the CFP on this matter. It is, in fact, an answer that must be assured, and it is in this sense that we have also intervened. When we talk about the need to have a TAP with greater capacity, which guarantees territorial cohesion, which ensures the connection to our communities, Portuguese-speaking countries, with the important role it has in linking to a set of continents in the world, of course, that is one of the issues that we have in mind. However, this is not done with a privatized TAP, as you did when you were in government, but with the public control of the company.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u216	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u217	That is what guarantees us that your intervention will meet our interests and not the profit interests of the economic groups and multinationals in this sector. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u218	We will then go to the second group of requests for clarification. Mr Bernardo Blanco has the floor for this purpose, by the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u219	Mr President, Mrs Paula Santos, I must begin by giving four notes to four myths which have been stated. The first is for 10 000 workers. Well, EUR 3200 million for 10 000 workers... These are the most expensive jobs in history. It is € 320 000 per worker. It would be enough to give half of this to the workers, who went very well on vacation, to their lives, for a few years and the taxpayers still saved half.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u220	That's an intelligence! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u221	The second is about the strategic part, whatever that of the strategic company, because TAP is already a regional company, which essentially serves Lisbon, does not serve the islands. As is the case in other countries, these remote island services and territories may be contracted with private individuals. Was TAP strategic when Mr. Prime Minister went to the Azores for Ryanair? Or when the military went to Romania in another company? Or when the repatriation to the pandemic was not done by TAP, but by Hi Fly? I don't know which strategic company this is. Whenever we hear those benches talking about strategic companies, we already know that taxpayers will suffer.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u222	Watch your handbag!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u223	The third note is about Europe, where the overwhelming majority of countries have largely private companies. What we did was a single case: the company was nationalized by ideological blindness. The last point concerns Mr Bruno Nunes, whom I would like to congratulate on his excellent communist speech. The answer to the question of when TAP returns the money is « does not return ». The point is exactly that, for which we have been warning more than two years. TAP has no way of returning the money! [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] And there is an economic concept called 'the fallacy of the downhill costs', according to which we will not now leave the company because we have already put money there; we must put more, because we have already put it before; and we must continue to put more to save what we already have. And we don't stop putting on. That's the point, we can't put it any more because what we've already done is not going to come back.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u224	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u225	Mr President, I wanted to make a very quick historical analysis. In January 2020, before the pandemic, we proposed privatization of the TAP and everyone voted against except the PSD, which abstained. In May 2020, we proposed, as some parties propose to the New Bank, that the money should be approved by Parliament, but PS, PCP, Left Block and PSD voted against. In November, we proposed that the Court of Auditors should make prior scrutiny of the new funds for the TAP, but again PS, PCP and Block voted against with the abstention of the Arrival. We have done everything we could, in terms of proposals, to avoid what was already obvious, that taxpayers would lose billions of dollars in an airline company, but the CFP has won — I congratulate you, you have won this debate and we have lost it! — and TAP was nationalised, 100 % of the company. That's great!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u226	Don't wait for the delay!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u227	As for the consequences, there are some of which I think the CFP does not like. The workers stopped being shareholders, they lost power — I think the PCP does not like it! Thousands of workers were fired, even though we put all this money there—I think the PCP doesn't like it! The social peace that existed in previous years, and all the unions said this in the hearings, ended — I think the CFP does not like it either. More importantly: EUR 3200 million of taxpayers have disappeared.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u228	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u229	I shall conclude, Mr President. A family, a couple with a child, pays 1000 € to save an airline that does not use. The overwhelming majority of the country doesn't use it. I therefore ask the CFP: is this not the exploitation of Portuguese for large public capital? From what value is this going to be the great exploitation? Is there any measure for TAP that doesn't involve going back to the Portuguese pocket? We have, is the privatisation of TAP. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u230	In order to make a request for clarification by the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u231	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Paula Santos, I would like to thank you for bringing this issue to the debate, which always reminds us how privatization is the history of a loot in the country. It is enough to look at Portugal Telecom and Cimpor — the two destroyed, after privatization, at bank power games and the « owners of all this» — but also at EDP, at ANA - Airports de Portugal, for CTT, for Galp, companies that did not improve their services to the population, which did not improve their service to the country, which call into question the sovereignty and strategic autonomy of the country in essential decisions and which also deprived the State of a significant source of revenue. All these companies were profitable when they were public and these profits today are handed over to international funds, when they were previously handed over to the « owners of all of this ». Ricardo Salgado well profited from these operations. It is never too much to remember, Madam Member, that the competition rules, which supposedly equal the public and the private, are a garrote to public enterprises, implying a competitive disadvantage of public enterprises. Why? Because any private company can be capitalised by its shareholder, but the public company is prohibited from being.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u232	Would you like more? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u233	It's disloyalty that plays against public companies. TAP did not take 1 cent of the state in 25 years. TAP has never been capitalised. Tell me the gentlemen. IL Members How do you manage a company that cannot be capitalised? Will that company have to compete in less favourable conditions or even more unfavorable? When was TAP recapitalized? She was recapitalized during the pandemic, because the private did not, with the government saying she was strategic for the country. Madam Member, what I would like to ask you is how it is explained that the government, which did the recapitalisation, which fired workers and cut wages, saying that it was doing it because the company was strategic and because it wanted to save it, will now privatize the company. The government has cleaned up the company, injected money and now will privatize it to deliver the future profits to a private who will most likely turn it into a small regional company, because no flag company is without belonging to the state. If you integrate a private company, TAP will be a regional company. I wonder if this is what defends the interests of the country and even the argument that the Government has given to recapitalize the TAP and do this set of operations. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u234	In reply, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u235	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank Mr Bernardo Blanco and Mrs Mariana Mortágua for the questions they have addressed to us. I would like to say the following: in the 10 years prior to the pandemic, the support granted to Ryanair was much higher than the support granted to TAP. With regard to TAP, there was a fierce intervention by the Liberal Initiative against this company—by it, the TAP could have been destroyed that there would be no problem—...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u236	One day we'll still have to figure out why!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u237	...but as far as Ryanair is concerned, we haven't heard one word from him. There, public support is no longer a problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u238	They're very good friends! [[Protests by IL Bernardo Blanco.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u239	It is still to be seen, in fact, what is the reason for this commitment from the Liberal Initiative against TAP, a company that is fundamental to our country, for our development, for our economy and, above all, for our sovereignty.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u240	They know what that is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u241	For the Liberal Initiative, this may say little, but for the Portuguese and for the country it is not a minor issue, it is a matter of great importance. TAP is so important and so viable that in the last 25 years — Mrs Mariana Mortágua referred to this — has not received any support from the State,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u242	Not 1 cent since 1997! [[Protests by IL Bernardo Blanco.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u243	... which shows that the framework of its activity is indeed viable. What it is worth mentioning, with regard to the options on the table — and I take this opportunity to reply to the honourable Member — is that the restructuring plan, which was accepted by the Socialist Party and which was imposed, was seen as an opportunity to prepare the TAP for privatisation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u244	It's evidence!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u245	That is the bottom line. And that is why there is this comfort and this convergence by the PS with the other political forces. This path is already harming TAP. See the objective of withdrawing TAP from Portela airport and making its headquarters pass to CTT facilities in the National Park. It is that there is a set of support for the workers themselves, including the dining room or the infantry, that they will lose with this exit from Portela airport. It does not seem to us that this is the solution to ensure an adequate response. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say that it is not today or 30 years ago — the CFP has always considered TAP to be a strategic company, and we have already mentioned why. This, of course, requires a political option to guarantee its public control,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u246	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u247	... but a political option that guarantees that its management will meet and is at the service of the interests of our country and our people, for our development.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u248	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u249	This requires, from the point of view of the political option, a path which guarantees not only the conditions for the TAP to ensure, in its exercise, conditions for its workers and the strengthening of its capacity, but also, of course, conditions for its activity. There is a very important aspect here, which is the construction of the new airport in the Alcochete Shooting Camp, because that is what will also allow the development and growth of TAP,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u250	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u251	... a hub that is so important for our country, for our statement, for the development of our economy, but also—and we can not fail to say—to strengthen working conditions and the rights of workers themselves, because they are fundamental to ensuring the activity of TAP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u252	We are now turning to a political declaration by the Left Block. To speak, Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u253	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: You will certainly remember these three pages which the Minister for Labour referred to Parliament on 18 September. The speaker presented the document he referred to. Less than a month ago, the government said that increasing pensions by law, i.e. at the inflation rate, would call into question the sustainability of the social security system. Faced with the criticisms of pensioners against the 'present poisoned' that was offered to them — the expression is from the president of the APRE! ( Association of Reformers, Pensioners and Older Persons ) — that is, before an advance, by October of this year, from next year's pension, with the guarantee of future cuts, Mr.Minister resorted to a tremendous argument: complying with the law of Vieira da Silva would make the system lose 13 years of life, causing negative balances in social security even before 2030. The argument was not right, among other things, because it was known that revenue has been increasing every year and even at a faster rate this year than expected. I therefore called on the Minister for Labour here in Parliament repeatedly. After much insistence, this document came to the Members with a table in which the Minister, under the heading of expenditure, put more than EUR 1000 million, but forgot to update the revenue, which was already known to have risen. There is no need to be any genius, not even a specialist on the subject, in order to know that, in order to measure social security balances, expenditure and revenue must be considered. That's a balance. This document, sent to Parliament, was an outrage because since July, by data from the government itself, we knew there was a growth of 12, 9 % of social security contributions this year. This document was an insult to the intelligence of all Members, of all parliamentary groups, without exception, and a disregard for the seriousness of the debate. The Minister wanted, yes, to omit the increase in revenue to manipulate the terms of public debate, waving the ghost of unsustainability, imitating the method that the right used when she wanted to cut pensions, reproduce the thesis on the right and repeat its choreography. The trap was in sight and was confirmed by the report of the State budget proposal for 2023, delivered to Parliament this week. On page 26 of this report, which is available online and which is attached to the Budget, unlike in the hammered numbers of three weeks ago, the revenue heading now appears with more than EUR 2110 million than in the previous document sent to Parliament. It is shown that with an increase of 8 % in pensions, the balances would be positive in 2023 in more than EUR 2 billion. In the project on the Social Security Financial Stabilization Fund — the instrument that serves to compensate for negative balances when they exist, and which has also been reinforced with new sources of financing negotiated on the left in 2018 — which comes from the budget report, the following is explicitly stated: the Fund does not only disappear in the coming years, although the Government said that this could happen at the beginning of the first half of 2040, as it will reach 2060 better than it is now. According to this report, the financial cushion of social security will have more than EUR 34 billion in 2060, plus EUR 8 billion than it has now. It has never been at stake, therefore, the sustainability of social security. The structural cut in pensions, which the Government decided to make from 2024 onwards, does not result from any concern about the sustainability of the public system, which, in fact, guarantees with more employment, better wages, fight against tax evasion, reception of immigrants and diversification of sources of financing. Don't! The cut-off of pensions had no relation to sustainability, which is guaranteed, but rather with a choice to reduce the deficit at a higher rate than expected, at the cost of the pensioners' current income, which will have updates below inflation. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what the Minister said and that the Prime Minister repeated—that updating pensions by Vieira da Silva's law would cost 13 years of life to the system—was a lie, and by using it, the government knew that it was distorting the debate. When the government invented, in despair of cause and in order to defend its choice, the pretext of unsustainability, having committed the irresponsibility of announcing bankruptcy—yes, bankruptcy! This is what was sent in the document on September 18—of the Stabilisation Fund in the 2040s, I knew it was not. But, by mere conjuncural and tactical opportunism, to try to neutralize the chorus of critics of the reformers and to present the royal court of pensions as inevitable, the government did not hesitate to use the false ghost of the failure of the system if the Vieira da Silva law was fulfilled. The government did not hesitate to pretend that what it sent us was a document from the Office of Studies and Planning, when it is clear that it is not. It did not hesitate to contribute to undermine the confidence of the younger people in the system and to feed the appetite of private pension funds, which at least partially want to deliver to the financial markets and their role. What the government has done, what Antonio Costa and Ana Mendes Godinho have done, is an unforgivable gesture for anyone, from any party, who cherishs the legacy of the social state and beats himself for its social and popular legitimacy. Discussing, improving, expanding, improving the public pension system, social security, strengthening its funding is always an open challenge. We have been here for this debate with proposals, but what the government did was not. Because it was not serious, because it was irresponsible, because it threw suspicion on a fundamental pillar of the social state, doing a favor to whoever wants to undermine it and questioned it, because it forged a fraud to try to legitimize the cut of EUR 1000 million in pensions. The public data of the Budget, which are in this document, go to page 26, ladies and gentlemen. Members — they confirm this today impedibly. The speaker presented the report of the State budget proposal for 2023. The Government owes Parliament an apology for this additional trick and owes reformers an increase in inflation pensions, i.e. compliance with the law. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u254	The Bureau recorded four requests for clarification from Mr José Moura Soeiro, whose speech we thank, in particular from the honourable Members. Deputies Rui Rocha, IL, Joana Barata Lopes, PSD, Alfredo Maia, PCP, and Rita Madeira, PS. How do you wish to respond to these requests for clarification, Mr President?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u255	Two to two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u256	All right. Mr Rui Rocha, therefore, has the floor to request clarification from the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u257	Mr President, Mr José Soeiro, the issue is sustainability and I would like to ask you if you consider it sustainable that according to the latest AgeingReport of the European Commission,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u258	If it's from the European Commission, then it's good! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u259	... who retire soon has a pension corresponding to 85 % of the last month's income; who is now 50 years old will receive a pension corresponding to 55 % of the month's income prior to that in which they enter the retirement situation; who is now 40 years old will enjoy 44 % of the last month's income; and who is now 20 years old has a prospect of getting 41 % of the pension in comparison with the income of the month before that in which they enter the retirement situation. This information is from the AgeingReport, from the European Commission, and you may say whether or not you trust it. There is also a study by SEDES - Association for Economic and Social Development that goes in the same direction, which is even more drastic. My questions are: do you trust these data? You think this is sustainable? Do you have any other data? Do you have any better information? It is that if these data, which are what we know, are the projections that exist about the sustainability of the social security system, I wonder what we can tell young people who are now 20 years old and who will soon enter the labour market, those who are 30 years old or those who are 40 and 50 years old, who are no longer as young as that.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u260	They've been young longer! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u261	This is basically an unsustainable situation. So these are my questions, Mr President. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u262	For the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Joana Barata Lopes has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u263	Mr President, I thank Mr. José Moura Soeiro for bringing this issue, which allows us to talk about a subject which, as the Socialist Party is concerned, shows the propaganda the government uses to deceive the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u264	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u265	Otherwise, we saw what the Prime Minister said in June this year: « Costa anticipates that in 2023 there will be a ‘historical increase’ of pensions. He also said, following this, that « there is no doubt that we will comply with the formula that has existed since the 2007 reform. Laws exist to be complied with." Now, it happens that, after all—and it was June of this year! — the Government considers that the laws do not exist to be complied with. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u266	But then the government has to assume that, when it does not comply with this law, what it is really doing is a cut in pensions that, to this day, pensioners are receiving. [[PSD applause.]] Attention that, in this propaganda thing, in which, as we know, the government is good — indeed, already in the State Budget for 2011, the Socialist Party frozen all pensions, including the lowest ones, which should not be forgotten! — what he says he will now give as an increase to pensioners is not an increase, it is an advance of what, in fact, pensioners would already receive. I mean, take it out now. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u267	So what happens is, once again, the government is trying to deceive the Portuguese with a language they do not understand, except to say "we are going to give you money now and not, there is no cut! Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr President, is it not true that this is an attempt to deceive the Portuguese, representing, in fact, a cut of EUR 1000 million for pensioners from 2024? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u268	To respond to these two requests for clarification, Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u269	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that this pension measure is a cut of EUR 1000 million, I believe it is not under discussion. This is in the questions and answers published on the social security website. There you go! There are fewer than 1 billion who will be transferred to pensioners from 2024, and therefore this is a cut that will structurally remain in the pension system. It is a structural cut in pensions for those who need this income to live, and I believe that there is no discussion about it. That is why this measure which the Government began by presenting as if it were support for the family, support for pensioners, is a mere measure of budgetary restraint. It is a budgetary engineering to implement, in the form of a anticipation in October, what will then be a cut that will make one feel, not in a year, but forever in all pensions, until people die. This is the Socialist Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u270	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u271	It is serious that, for this purpose, the Socialist Party has re-edited the arguments on the right, which have resorted to the theses on the right and resorted to a lie about the unsustainability of the system, which is denied by the report of the Budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u272	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u273	We know what the model of the Liberals, including the Liberal Initiative — the PSD, back and half, is also proposing it. It is a capitalisation model, i.e. to deliver part of the pensions to private funds.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u274	In England it worked well! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u275	And we also know what the result of this model is. It is that pensions are played in the casino and in the Russian Roulette of the financial system and then people are left without pensions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u276	What is the result of the current model?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u277	Now that's what's happening in England.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u278	No, what is the result of the Portuguese Fund?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u279	The model of the Liberal Initiative is the model of England, which does not guarantee pensions to people.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u280	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u281	So what we should say to young people is that—yes! — must be fought by a public social security system. Who defends the reduction in replacement rates, i.e. who claims that, when a person retires, a person has a much lower income than he had when he worked, who is producing the decrease in replacement rates is making a favour to the capitalisation funds and the right arguments. We must tell young people that our system is sustainable, based on principles of solidarity and sharing, that labour contracts are a mechanism for protecting people and their future, that the discounts protect us in old age and that, therefore, we must fight for social security and extend it, bringing precarious workers, informal workers and migrant workers to the public social security system. We must tell them that, on the contrary, pension funds are a roulette which undermines our future. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u282	We moved on to the second group of requests for clarification. I give the floor to Mr Alfredo Maia.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u283	Mr President, Mr José Moura Soeiro, we thank the Bloc for bringing this issue in — which, moreover, has been recurrent in the last month, has it not been true? — it is important to continue to clarify certain fundamental aspects. From the outset, we have already seen the ambush of the government's speech on this matter, as we have no doubt that the invocation of the risk of unsustainability does not aim to solve any fundamental problem, but rather to pave the way for other measures,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u284	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u285	... moreover, very expensive to the PS and also to the right, as was already outlined here. It is also confirmed that this government narrative and the right about the alleged unsustainability of social security, waving the phantom and the threat that can become unsustainable in the short term, on the one hand, has much to do with the budget that they want to impose on us and, on the other hand, is always used to respond to the call for a real increase in pensions and reforms.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u286	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u287	So, Mr President, aside from the demonstration you have made, I would like to ask you a few questions, which are summarized in this way: does the CFP agree with which it is necessary to build a set of substantive solutions, including investment in Portuguese production capacity — in agriculture, fisheries, industry — with the commitment to job creation and with the decisive commitment to improving workers' wages, including the regularization of precarious workers, migrant workers? Are these solutions, or are they not, measures to strengthen the normal social security income?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u288	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u289	Finally, you will certainly agree, and that is why I would also like to know your opinion on whether or not to bet on the diversification of sources of social security financing,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u290	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u291	...a matter, in fact, for which the CFP has already put forward proposals, which, as we know, have been plunged.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u292	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u293	I conclude, Mr. President. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u294	Mr President, I hope you did not feel pressured by my request. You now have the floor to request clarification from the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rita Borges Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u295	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr José Soeiro, contrary to what others have done in the past, in the crisis, the Socialist Party's Government responds without penalizing pensioners and taking advantage of the time to impose a model of privatization of the social security system. With regard to pensioners, and knowing the impact that the moment we are going through has for them, in addition to the two pension increases already made this year, the Government has allocated an exceptional supplement of 50 % of the pension value. This means a total expenditure in 2022, of more than EUR 20 billion, an increase of 32 % compared to 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Socialist Party, since 2016, has increased pensions every year, making extraordinary increases in six moments.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u296	PCP proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u297	These extraordinary increases ensured an accumulated increase of 14 % in average pensions compared to the 6 % increase that would exist if only the formula was applied, returning to people the incomes that had been cut by the PSD Government and the CDS. But the Government of the Socialist Party does not stay here and proposes, by 2023, a historical update—yes, the PSD Member, historical! — pensions, with increases from 4, 43 %. Ladies and gentlemen. Members were set up in July the Commission for the Diversification of Sources of Financing and Sustainability of Social Security, coordinated by the ILO (International Labour Organisation ), one of its objectives being to indicate measures that guarantee the sustainability of social security and alternatives to its sources of income. Even this week, with the social partners, the income agreement was signed which guarantees an increase in social security contributions of EUR 2 billion, in line with the increase in wages. We live in difficult moments, uncertain and volatile moments that call for any caution, in which it is not easy to work short-term macroeconomic scenarios. Therefore, in view of developments in the country and the conclusions of the Green Paper, the Government undertakes to assess by the end of 2023 the expected increase in pensions to 2024. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u298	Mr President, let me say if I prefer to return to income cuts policies, a recipe which the right has adopted when it is in government, or to follow the policies of valuing them. Let the Portuguese not forget that, for the Socialist Party, increasing pensions has been and will always be a commitment that we will honor. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u299	To reply, Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u300	Mr. President, Mr. Alfredo Maia, in fact, left to the left of the Socialist Party...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u301	I mean, the left!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u302	... has been beaten by the strengthening of the public social security regime. When we changed the scheme of workers' contributions to the green receipt, we strengthened social security because we brought more people to the system. When we discussed here the special work contract recognition action and created a mechanism to recognize employment contracts, we strengthened social security because we brought more people into the system. When we change the law on illegal work, to strengthen the accountability of contracting chains and to combat forced labour, particularly in agriculture, we strengthen the system because we are bringing more people to social security. The same is true when we discuss the diversification of sources of funding. The so-called « Mortágua tax », the additional to IMI ( municipal property tax ), each year brings EUR 150 million to the Financial Stabilisation Fund for Social Security. And the additional to IRC, i.e. the provision of 2 % of IRC to the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund, also strengthened that fund. Moreover, in the income agreement, when the Government of the Socialist Party negotiates a loss of IRC and allows profit companies to deduct old losses to avoid paying IRC, it is withdrawing money to social security, as it does when it withdraws the obligation of contributions from employers to guarantee or compensation funds. And, yes, Mr Alfredo Maia — we have already discussed it here and we agree — we also argue that there can be other sources of funding, particularly by companies that have a lot of profits, but few workers, through a contribution on net added value. The Communist Party has already submitted to debate a project in this regard and we also defend it, simply it has been plunged by the Socialist Party and the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u303	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u304	Mrs. Member of the Socialist Party, when Mr. Prime Minister and Mrs. Minister of Labour said that increasing pensions by law would call into question the social security system, which would cause him to lose 13 years of life and that the fund was broken in 2040, said a lie. And it wasn't just a lie told to the Left Block, it was a lie told to the country, pensioners and also to the Members of the Socialist Party. When the Minister sent that document to the Commission — the honourable Member also received it because she is in the Commission — did she not feel insulted in her intelligence? The speaker displayed the document he mentioned. What does this fraud, this cheating, this inextricable document say? The Government of the Socialist Party must in fact apologize to Parliament for having sent this shame and to the country for lying about it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u305	And the Block and the PCP too!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u306	Madam Member, when you say that what you are now doing is a historic increase, and the historic increase of the Socialist Party is suspending the law of Vieira da Silva and cutting by half the increase that would result from the law, frankly, sad history! Sad story, I repeat.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u307	So, what is anticipation?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u308	It is precisely this: the government has suspended the Vieira da Silva law and will make an increase which is half that which the law would stipulate, which would be around 8 %, as we know. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, this is a sad story and what I suggest to the Socialist Party and the Government of the Socialist Party is that they retreat. We have data, social security is sustainable, it was a lie what they said and therefore retreat and apply the law, increasing pensions by the value of inflation. That's what pensioners deserve. This is the minimum of justice to prevent pensioners from becoming even more impoverished. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u309	thus, we close the first item on the agenda, which consisted of political declarations. I remember the ladies and gentlemen. Members who still have two points on the agenda and therefore the work should be extended until around 19 hours and 5 minutes or 19 hours and 10 minutes. We will start the second item on the agenda, concerning the debate around Petition No 69 / XIV / 1. a ( Sara Alexandra Flores Gonçalves ) — By closing the shopping on Sundays, together with, in general, the Bill Nos 153 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Regulation of hours of operation of trade and distribution units and 345 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Regulations and limits the operating hours of large commercial areas and establishes a transitional system for the reduction of the normal working period. Mr Paula Santos has the floor to speak by the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u310	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to leave a first word of greeting to the petitioners, who have brought the debate to the Assembly of the Republic a very serious problem, which is felt by the workers of the large areas, who work in the shopping centres. What we have identified today is that, in fact, there is a deregulation of working hours, high rates of work and difficulty on the part of these workers in reconciling working life with personal life. Therefore, the claim here brought, that commercial centres, large surfaces, close on Sundays, is fair and makes sense. Thus, we wanted to accompany this petition with a bill whose aim is to regulate the working hours of the trade and distribution units. Our proposal is based on three principles, from the right to weekly rest for all workers. Yes, it is fair that all workers have a rest day at the weekend,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u311	At least!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u312	... that they can use as well as understand, with their family members, in leisure activities. That is at least one day for the workers. The second principle is to regulate the opening time of commercial establishments, which is a regulation of the consumer goods market. The third principle is that the ordering of trade requires time regulation as a fundamental element. What we have identified is that the liberalisation of the functioning of these commercial units has had profound impacts on trade and services, in particular for micro and small businesses and on the lives of workers in these sectors. And we see that those who benefit from these times are only the economic groups who violate the said rules of competition, so what applies in economic activity is in fact the law of the strongest. When we bring the proposal to regulate the time of trade, there is to be the closing to Sunday, as a rule, a principle that must be applied to the schedules of trade and services units. In addition to time regulation, in our proposal we also bring a procedure for this regulation to become the responsibility of central government entities, so that it is not the municipalities that make these decisions. This amendment to the legislation was a trick to ensure that everything — these high working paces, this deregulation of working hours, this disregard for workers' rights — remains as it is. in other European countries, shopping centres and large areas are closed on Sunday.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u313	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u314	According to it, at least we have no information on the contrary, from the point of view of economic activity there is no problem, but from the point of view of workers it brings great benefits, because it allows at least one fixed day at the end of the week to rest the workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u315	For all the workers!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u316	This is not a matter of mere appearance, it is a matter of great importance. When we talk about valuing work and workers, respect for rest is also one of the fundamental aspects that we must protect. It is for this purpose that the CFP brings this initiative to debate, an initiative that allows for the timing of the operation of large areas, of shopping centres. More than that, it allows to strengthen the rights of these workers. This claim is fair.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u317	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u318	Let me reiterate, Mr President: it is very fair to bring this claim and, with our proposal, here is an opportunity to meet this claim. I leave the challenge to the other political forces in order to adopt this initiative, because we can take significant steps to enhance the rights of these workers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u319	To submit Bill No. 345 / XV / 1. a ( BE), I give the floor to Mr José Moura Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u320	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by welcoming, on behalf of the Block on the Left, the tens of thousands of petitioners who address this Parliament around this cause, and the author herself of the petition, who emigranted to Lyon, first strangely realized that shopping and hypermarkets were closed on Sunday, but who later saw the issue in another way, identifying and understanding the advantages of such a decision. Moreover, in several countries and cities of Europe there is this type of time regulation. In Portugal, until 2010 the large surfaces closed on Sundays and holidays, between January and October, from 13 hours. Then, since 2013, there was a movement of time liberalization for the large surfaces, which became open every day. More than 10 years later, what do we have? We have large areas open throughout the national territory without time limitation, with consequences for small trade, of course, but also for workers in the sector, who are thus deprived of the right to rest on Sunday, which is a different day from the others, because it is the day when there is no school and the people we live with are also free. We therefore believe that it is important to regulate schedules, also because of the limitation of working hours and reconciliation with personal and family life. We propose that, as a rule, establishments for continuous sale above a certain area be closed on Sunday. We also propose that they be open on four Sundays or holidays per year, as well as safeguard exceptional situations, exceptional regimes, in negotiation with the authorities and organisations representing workers. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] And because the phantom agitated by those who advocate the liberalisation of hours is always to say that regular schedules will cause unemployment, we propose a transitional regime in which adaptation to the new timetable regulation regime also implies the inclusion of 35 hours a week in collective contracts, i.e. a reduction in working time and the guarantee that there will be no loss of wages in this process. It seems to us a balanced solution, but we are obviously open to discussion, to improve, to improve, to dialogue with petitioners and petitioners, to dialogue with organisations representing workers, to dialogue with the CCDRs (coordination and regional development committees) and the authorities and to find a solution that is better than we have today. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u321	We shall now turn to the speeches of the parliamentary groups which have not submitted legislative initiatives. I give the floor to Mr Rodrigo Saraiva, the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u322	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the petitioners who bring us this issue, a considerable number of more than 81,000 Portuguese who have subscribed to this idea in a legitimate act and tool that the Assembly of the Republic is pleased to receive. in a democratic process, of course, we cannot and should not always agree, and this is one such case. The Liberal Initiative's Parliamentary Group does not follow this petition, its objective, or the prohibition of the proposals associated with it, the Left Block and the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u323	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u324	It is not up to us, as legislators, to judge the choices of each individual on how to spend their Sunday afternoons or propose alternatives, even if we personally consider them to be healthier. We do not, of course, follow these proposals from the Left Block and the CFP, which are prohibitionists, take flexibility from consumers and take employment opportunities from many workers. The Left Block and the PCP, which talk so much about the workers, bring proposals that they are going to do is create unemployment, and that is clear. The question remains: have you studied how much unemployment you are going to create with these proposals? We assume that they did this study and these analyses. The Left Block and the PCP are once again demonstrating that they are indeed the friends of the great capital. This is the case in health, with what they have been able to pressure the PS in recent legislatures, making private health insurance grow, and so is it when they defend social security, which now plays in the Stock Exchange. The Stabilisation Fund already plays in the stock market, speculation and all these things that you so criticize! We are all shareholders of Louis Vuitton, of Coca-Cola, of these companies. This is the reality! You are the friends of the great capital, excuse me from continuing to point here. They both like to talk a lot about other European countries, but fortunately in these European countries there is small trade and large areas. Because in the countries that have the models of society that you are defending, there are no large surfaces. Bridge! Not Sunday, not any day of the week. We respect individual freedom, we do not accept companies designed to rule and framework and, at least, we will vote in favour of proposals that remove choices to consumers, Portuguese, whatever the day of the week. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u325	I have the floor, for an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Filipe Melo.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u326	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I also welcome the author of this petition, Sara Gonçalves. Of course, this is an interesting debate. We thought that the three extreme-left parties would stand in the same direction, but strangely, the Liberal Initiative took a step back and is against this proposal. [[Repeals of CH Deputies.]] Let me say that we find it very strange that the jobs, salaries and out there come to defend the closure of these units on Sunday. Well we know that, on the side of the Left Block, the most important thing would be to be sitting at home and preferably even to bring their wages to the door, but that is not possible. We live in a real country and not in a left block country! So what we're saying, and we're totally against this proposal, is that these units give people jobs, they make the economy move forward. We're not going to fall into the ridiculous request that hospitals close on Sunday because doctors have to rest on the weekend. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u327	But is a mall the same as a hospital? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u328	Or that football stadiums close, because players also have to rest on Sunday and they can't play, they have to play during the week. Or, then, let the police stations close, because police officers also have the right to rest on Saturday and Sunday.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u329	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u330	Let us be serious and look at this debate in a serious and conscious way. [[PCP and BE protests.]] Just look at the Left.net and see who is involved in this petition: the Secretary-General of the CGTP-IN speaks very often. Therefore, CGTP-IN, Left Block and PCP, all mixed up, with one purpose, that is to bring down, in all, wages, is to create more unemployment, is to once again create the back of the economy, with your ideological blindness that people have to be at home at the end of the week.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u331	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u332	We must not forget that this shopping issue also has to do with a cultural issue: people are used to being able to make their purchases at the weekend because, during the week, people who work, who have their children in schools and have to go looking, have their lives. [[PCP and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u333	There are people who work!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u334	In the countries where they are closed, how do they do it? Oh, my God! You mustn't go shopping! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u335	But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I assume that, with this fear that the shopping should end on Sunday, the whole socialist bench has already gone shopping. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u336	For an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Marcia Passos will use the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u337	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would naturally like to congratulate the petitioners for a petition entitled « For the closing of shopping on Sundays ». In fact, this petition leads us to an important reflection, which at first reading only seems to contravene the right to weekly rest for workers and the individual and collective interest in having commercial spaces available to all on any day of the week, particularly on Sunday.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u338	As long as the purchases do not overlap the right to rest! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u339	They understand the petitioners that on Sunday is classically the day that should be dedicated to the family and that, I quote, « with the closure of the large commercial surfaces on Sunday people would be faced with new challenges », with « more quality time, for themselves and for their own ». Let's not ask questions, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the necessary and essential rest for all those who work, and we do not doubt that a healthy life is at the expense of balance, particularly at the expense of the balance between work and personal and family life.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u340	You have to do a workshop on the Continent!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u341	However, we have many doubts about any causal link between Sunday-open shopping and poor Portuguese or less healthy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u342	Go talk to the workers to see what they're saying!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u343	There are no studies, neither scientific nor empirical, to prove it. We understand, sirs. Members, as ANAFRE ( National Association of Frequencies) understands, the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities and the Confederation of Trade and Services of Portugal, that we are increasingly witnessing a growing dynamism in urban areas, with great predominance of trade, also operating in seven days of the week. Thanks to this dynamism, today we have cities where there are more options for families, more opportunities to go to the cinema, visit spaces, such as museums and bookshops, and have more options to buy goods and access services.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u344	Go to the museum, because the Continent is open!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u345	Shopping, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, they are just one more of these options and therefore we must ask: Why close the shopping on behalf of the weekly rest? What about the museums? What about the movies? If we want, in the name of an alleged healthy balance, then what would it be like with all those who work in the police forces, hospitals, airports? Close the shopping on Sunday, on behalf of the weekly break, as the PCP defends, in the bill that presents us, leaves us even many doubts. The weekly rest, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, you're not and you can never be in charge...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u346	Weekly rest is a luxury!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u347	... for those who work in shopping, street stores or in any other economic activity or public or private service.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u348	Because they only steal those who work there!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u349	What is at stake, yes, in initiatives of this nature, as well as with the initiative of the Left Block, is the potential unemployment that a time regulation, made 'to the blind', would mean. What is at stake is the deprivation of growth of small and medium-sized enterprises, which have just emerged from a pandemic crisis, in which they have been forced to close doors, and which you want to send to close again, when they are now facing an economic and social crisis. What's in issue, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is not to realize that the last word, in this question, must be from the municipalities and the parish,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u350	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u351	...for these are those who are closer to their populations, who know reality better and who know what makes sense to those who live there and to those who visit them. If these were or were, perhaps, the principles of this reflection, the PSD is and will always be available. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u352	For an intervention by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, I now give the floor to Mr José Rui Cruz.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u353	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Faces and Dear Petitioners : Today, we appreciate Petition No 69 / XIV / 1. a, signed by 81 774 petitioners, as well as the Bill No. 345 / XV / 1. a (BE) and 15 / 15 / 1 a ( PCP ). The petition seeks to close the large commercial areas in Portugal on Sunday. This claim, clearly expressed in the text of the petition, aims to raise the question of whether there is real need and benefit for society, and for the workers of these establishments themselves, due to their operation seven days a week, between 10 hours and 23 hours. The petitioners argue that the closure of the large commercial areas on Sundays would promote a greater balance of the family and professional life of workers, with an impact on their health and happiness and consequently on their productivity. They also refer to studies demonstrating this same correlation. They also point out that this change would necessarily lead to a change in consumer habits, particularly in the search for other forms of entertainment and consumption. The petitioners see, in this change of behaviour, a stimulus for local trade in urban centres. At the same time, they note that, on the contrary, most public services are closed at weekends. The PCP and the Left Block then present bills that accompany, from a variety of points of view, the petition now under discussion. The CFP advocates the deepening of the regulation of this sector of the economy, as a way to guarantee the right to weekly rest day, equally for all workers, considering that the deepening of the regulation guarantees more equality for small and micro-enterprises in the trade sector, in access to the consumer market. On the other hand, the left block bill defends the closure of large surfaces on Sundays and holidays, in order to ensure the balance between the family and professional life of workers. In the draft law, it is proposed that « a transitional scheme including the reduction of the normal working period in these sectors, without any loss of any rights or remuneration ». However, the Left Block points out that these same establishments may open to the public four Sundays or holidays a year, by providing information to municipal chambers. It also provides for special arrangements to be established by the local authorities. Employers of the sector advocate the need to assess the economic impact of such a change, given the significant expression of the trade sector in the economy and employment. On the other hand, the Portuguese Confederation of Micro, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (CPPME ) advocates proposals for sustainable urbanism and trade which tend to lead to the limitation of the growth of the number of commercial areas and to the revitalization and qualification of trade in urban and historical centres. In 2020, when this petition was submitted, the Government was consulted by the Economic Commission on this matter. At the time, it was the Government's conviction that the proposal had a clear social scope, in particular as regards strengthening the conditions of reconciliation between family and professional life and the indirect benefits for leisure and cultural activities. At present, the Government did not follow the economic arguments of the petition, as, first of all, from the consumer point of view, the large commercial areas absorb a very large majority of consumers. Secondly, any changes to operating times would result in an almost automatic adjustment of economic operators, given the concentration of distribution on these surfaces. Thirdly, changes to the routines of Portuguese consumers could have serious economic impacts on the sector, and these data were not provided for by the proposal under consideration. This was true in 2020, when we lived a global emergency caused by the pandemic, as is true today, when we live under the effect of the war of Ukraine, whose impacts on economic activities are felt daily and would be greatly aggravated by such a measure.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u354	What about energy saving? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u355	At the time that the Government is preparing to present new measures to support businesses and families, the closing of Sunday does not seem to contribute to this collective effort that we are preparing for. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u356	What about energy saving? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u357	I now give the floor to Mrs Inês Sousa Real of the NAP for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u358	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming, in the person of the first petitioner, the more than 80 000 petitioners of this petition, for the matter that brings us and for the reflection to which they call us, of course, on the right to disconnect with working life, but also to leisure and family life, as well as to rest, which are absolutely fundamental values in our society. We must not forget that it is also important — at a time when we are already talking about and when we are discussing overall the four-day working week and the equalization of the 35 hours per week of public service for private service — to discuss the model of operation of the various economic areas of our society, without leaving out the necessary harmonisation of workers' rights, economic continuity and, of course, the right of consumers themselves to access these areas. There is a dimension which, at this time, makes this debate difficult, which is the socio-economic context in which we live, as we well know, as well as the rights of workers. We do not want to say that there is no debate and a path to be made — which, in the view of the NAP, needs to be done — until we can also protect traditional trade, which is one of the dimensions that has been left out of this debate. We will be fully available, particularly in the field of the specialization process, to make our contributions. [[Meanwhile, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u359	Mr Rui Tavares, from the Free House, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u360	Mr President, Dear colleagues : This is an important debate, because it is a debate on freedom. On freedom in concrete and not on abstract and not only on my freedom, but on the freedom of others. I appreciate, I will not deny it, my freedom, if necessary, to make purchases on Sundays at a shopping mall. However, this freedom should not be enjoyed at the expense of someone's oppression...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u361	It's not oppression, it's work!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u362	...that you can't see your children on Sunday, because that's the day the children are home.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u363	Put a robot there!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u364	I am talking about the freedom of individuals, rather than the freedom of abstract and collective entities. And it is with some surprise that I see, here, people claim that it is taboo to discuss that these collective and abstract entities, such as companies, have to step up the freedom of real people and then present us with a version of the European political geography that is really strange. And here I am talking mainly to our colleagues on the Liberal Initiative bench. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u365	Yes, Mr. Rodrigo Saraiva! It begins not to realize why the liberal countries, which are so praised, when they close the shops to Sunday—Germany, Switzerland, Norway and out there— are no longer liberal. They're developed economies, but were they late for closing shops on Sundays? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u366	That's the difference! We are not a developed economy!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u367	Are people less rich? Is there less work? No, there isn't! It is a discussion that we should do without taboos, but of course, it is a discussion that must not fail to be accompanied, as it has been recalled here, by the bank of the Arrival, of the discussion of the four-day working week, i.e. people need to have time...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u368	Close three days in a row!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u369	...to go shopping on other days of the week.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u370	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u371	Shut up!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u372	Mr President, I am waiting for you to recognize that I am trying to answer an argument that you have made, and that you want to hear the answer, but apparently you do not like to hear it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u373	But, in the meantime, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u374	So, with the four-day week of work, we want more days for trade, more days for the family and more productivity and economic development.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u375	Mr José Soeiro, from BE, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u376	Mr President, Mr Filipe Melo : You saw leaders of the CGTP-IN in the petition, but you could also have seen bishops, who also subscribe to it. There are many different reasons to subscribe to the petition, it is not worth discrediting the 80 000 petitioners or caricature their positions, even if we do not agree with what they are bringing to this Parliament. Then, absurd arguments were presented. They said: "Do you also want to close hospitals? You want to shut down the squads, too? »... But our life and our security, is sovereignty dependent on the opening of shopping? Oh, my God! At the time of the pandemic, hospitals were never closed, teams were never closed, but trade hours were limited. One thing has nothing to do with the other, as we all understand.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u377	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u378	Then, the argument of the prohibitionism of the Liberal Initiative is a fragile argument, not only by international examples, but because the Liberal Initiative did not propose to change the law, and today there are limits. Or does the Liberal Initiative argue that all commercial establishments should be able to be open all night? Is that the goal of our civilization? Is everything working all night? The PSD deputy spoke of the municipalities: yes, we consider the municipalities and their participation in our bill. The phantom of unemployment is shaking: we expect a transitional scheme to reduce the normal working time for the preservation of jobs. Finally, I think that in this debate, as in others, what we need to know is whether we want every hour, without exception, to be hours of production of goods, of movement of goods and of accumulation of capital, at the time when capitalism is going to conquer as long as possible. See this in continuous labor, in the way it colonizes itself and mercantilizes its own sleep! This is what we must discuss and if it makes sense to have rules that think about other logics, other forms of sociability and in another way of organizing time and society. Our project, which seems quite balanced to us, because it provides precisely this latitude in the management of time regulation, thinks of these other logics and I think that, at least in this sense, it also meets a legitimate concern that has been posed by petitioners and petitioners. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u379	For an intervention, Mr Filipe Melo of the Czech Republic has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u380	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I could not let the speech of the Member of the Left Block be made clear when he brings to this debate the bishops, and whom he refers to is the Bishop of Porto, the same as he had unfortunate statements in these cases of pedophilia, and I did not see you rise against this,... [[BE's protests.]] ...because it's a subject that you like, it's a subject that you're interested in.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u381	Don't listen, don't listen!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u382	As they did not question the position of the President of the Republic on this subject. We are already used to this: the Left Block has this speech that is neither for one side nor for the other side, it is to the extreme that suits you most. So we're not going to give a stage to that, just look at what's on your own page; we haven't been careful to go to see it, it fell into our hands, because, frankly, we don't waste time to see the amount of crap that goes through your page. With regard to Mr Freeman, I know that you are obsessed with this bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u383	She's a tara, she's a tara!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u384	Of course, you'll have some nightmares with this bench. [[L. Protests.]] Mr President, let me tell you that your idea, as well as that of the Left Block, is to take another day of the work week, is to close on Saturday and Sunday. Probably, what you want is to end the job and that the state will give you your little salary home. with us they don't count for your delusions! You are right next to the Left Block and do not count on our contribution. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u385	I'm better off by the Left Block than by the gentlemen, that, of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u386	Mr Rodrigo Saraiva, from the IL, now speaks for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u387	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I do not think I will spend the time I have left, I just wanted to thank Mr Rui Tavares, who is now on the phone, for his interventions, always very focused on us, when he is not backing the Socialist Party. And in his speech, he spoke of several countries, especially Nordic ones, and then said two magic words: « developed economies ». I do not know if he lives in Portugal where we live, but unfortunately we are not a developed economy. That is our desire, these are the policies we defend, so that we become a developed economy. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u388	So, there, have you closed on Sunday? Oh, my God! Maybe, when we become a developed economy, we already agree...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u389	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we therefore close the second item on the agenda. We move on to the third point, which is the joint debate of Petition No 209 / XIV / 2. a ( Mariana Franco Fernandes ) — They request the allocation of the nature of public crime to the non-consensual sharing of sexual content and, in general, of Law Projects Nos 156 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Strengthens the protection of victims of private firearms by means of non-consensual sharing of sexual carousel content, 157 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Prevents non-consensual disclosure of intimate or sexual content, 208 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Creation of the crime of unauthorized pornography (fifty-fifth amendment to the Criminal Code and forty-fifth amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure) and 347 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Strengthens the protection of victims of crimes of non-consensual dissemination of intimate content by amending the Criminal Code and Decree-Law No 7 / 2004 of 7 January 2004 approving Electronic Trade in the Internal Market and Personal Data Processing. Let's start with the presentation phase of the bills and, to present the Bill No. 156 / XV / 1. Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u390	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by welcoming the petitioners who have brought this issue to debate and specifically to mention two associations — Cut the Current and Not Share — for the work they have done in this area. Every month, about 500 000 people report to Facebook only on Facebook, who are target/victims of sharing content not consented to sex. Half a million men, women, sometimes children, denounce a single social network, every month, what happens to this sharing. If we add together the aggregate of social networks that we have and the current platforms, we realize that, easily, we reach several million people. During the pandemic, given the brutal increase in technological consumption, there was also a brutal increase in the sharing of these contents. These contents generate suffering, cause destruction of lives, families and, above all, immense, consecutive destruction of personality and social life. The opinions are clear and the studies are also clear: we are facing one of the areas of social life capable and with enormous potential to destroy the life of any one of us and any one of us who relates to us. The project brought to this House is based on past legislative experience, but also on the opinions that the Superior Council of the Magistrature, the Order of Lawyers and the Public Prosecutor's Office presented, duly and in time, to this House. We propose to empower the crime of privacy in this specific model of non-consensual sharing of images or videos of sexual charis. Our current Penal Code does not do so, it integrates this crime into another crime, that of the firewall of private life, or, in a model, within the framework of domestic violence. It is a systematic mistake to do so in this way. We must therefore, looking at the opinions we have, know how to adapt to reality and circumstances. We cannot say that sharing unconsensual sexual images is the same as sharing the bill of light or phone. We cannot join in the crime of privacy in Article 192. the same things, when they are absolutely different things. This legislative project aims to ensure that the sharing of these contents, which destroy human lives, is autonomous, by its differentiated value from the point of view of guilt, from the point of view of lawlessness and, above all, from the point of view of the personal and social damage that it causes. Therefore, in addition to the empowerment in Article 192. o -A, we propose an increase to the general penalty of five years—in fact, in the path of another project, such as that of the Socialist Party, so that the distinction we currently have between committing these crimes, within a relationship and outside a relationship, is no longer so differentiated. In fact, the opinion of the Supreme Council of Justice points out exactly how to end the fundamental and unjustified divergence which exists in the Portuguese legal system today between sharing these contents within a relationship and outside a relationship. Why? Because, in both cases, the system of trust may be different, but the damage can be exactly the same and, from the point of view of social damage, destruction can be brutal. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Alongside this, Mr President, the arrival also proposes an amendment to Decree-Law No 7 / 2004, in order to end this hell which is the one of the unauthorized shares that the system cannot withdraw from the public space. Therefore, we propose an amendment to our data protection legislation, which allows, in cases of these, effective content blocking on the Internet, content that destroys the lives of our families, often the lives of our children, and undermines the balance of the social fabric. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u391	To submit Bill No. 157 / XV / 1. a, of the NAP, has the floor to Mrs Inês Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u392	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the petitioners and the associations that have mobilized around this petition. On a daily basis, four complaints are made by disclosure of photographs of an intimate or sexual nature to our authorities. In the face of this phenomenon, what we are still witnessing is questions and comments to the victims, such as "why did they film? “ Why did they quit? ” , « it was really seeing », « you have to respect it! », thus blaming the victims for the aggressions they were subjected to, rather than responsible the attacker. And we do this too many times and in various dimensions of women's lives. In Spain, in a similar case, a 32-year-old woman, mother of two children, ended her own life, when she came to the knowledge of her family a video of her sexual content, which had been spread criminally among colleagues, by a person with whom she had had had a previous relationship. We do not doubt that such practices constitute a crime, and a crime that must be seen in the dimension against sexual freedom. The resistance to be considered in this way seems relatively simple to us: our society continues to look anachronically and misogynisticly at women's sexual freedom. Female sexuality continues to be looked at with voyeurism and being the object of ridicule, reprobation and even a source of humiliation. That is why today, once again, we talk about sexual and gender-based violence, and we classify it as such, not just as a gateway to private life. We intend to recognize that this is a form of coercion and violence that is unacceptable: a violence that intercepts with many other dimensions, such as domestic violence and dating, and can be used as a form of revenge, in the context of rupture of relations, control, coercion, extortion and criminal dissemination, and that must be promptly removed from the internet. More, it spreads at a speed and reach which are only possible in a digital society and which must be rejected vehemently by society and the legislator. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: it seems to us, therefore, that it is clear that this type of violence goes beyond the mere crime of privacy and that the law currently provides for this type of practice and constitutes a violation of the autonomy of women's sexual freedom, and must follow the recommendations of GREVIO (Group of Experts on Actiongainst Violence against Women and Domestic Violence) that go in this same direction, the criminalization of these conducts and the immediate withdrawal of the content of the Internet. for our part, we are fully available for work in the specialty, for the sake of the dignity that this matter deserves from the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u393	To submit Bill No 208 / XV / 1. a, from BE, has the word Mrs. Joana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u394	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I greet the petitioners and the petitioners for bringing to Parliament the issue of unconsensual sharing of sexual content. For the Left Block, this theme requires comprehensive treatment, including the phenomena of unconsensual capture and dissemination, as well as the recognition of the character of sexual violence that this crime entails. Unauthorized pornography, using digital photography and video and the massification of online social networks, is an essentially new phenomenon in its nature and more serious contours than the understanding we had in the past. In a few minutes, thousands of people may have access to an illicit recording of intimate relationships of third parties, a photograph with nudity or seminity, a video of sexual character created by the couple. When these materials are obtained consentably, in an interaction between adults, this is a matter of the private life of these people; however, their disclosure without consent or the obtaining of more materials, through the threat of disclosure, consists of crimes against sexual freedom. in this phenomenon we include the situations of pornographic revenge, in which typically ex-companies disseminate photographs or videos of ex-companies, as retaliation by the end of the relationship. What is at issue is not the act captured in itself, but its capture without consent and its disclosure without consent. And this is a gender-marked crime. Isabel Ventura, a researcher at the University of Minho, points out that the consequences will be different for men and women. « There is a double sexual morality» – says the researcher – « The public exposure of nudity, sexual or sexual acts causes a fall in the reputation of women and an upgrade in the reputation of men». As the petition explains, the images are seen by the general public, including the victim's family, his friends, romantic partners and professional colleagues, and the consequences for the victims are dramatic. It is our view that the crimes currently foreseen are insufficient to cover this social reality. The characteristics that the crime has gained with the generalization of online socialization advise an appropriate treatment at this new time. This is a crime against sexual freedom, which, in our understanding, must be classified as such. In recent years—and it is important to recognize this—the sexual life, like other aspects of social life, has also come to life through online means. To capture without consent or disclose without consent images or sounds that can be used as pornographic content is an attack on sexual freedom, because it subtractes these recordings from the free decision of the recorded person. The concept of "unconsensual pornography" used here, with the appropriate adaptations for adults, has a consistent definition with the concept of "pornography" already present in the Penal Code. If it is true that the Supreme Council of the Magistrate, in its opinion on the Left Block initiative, has been arrested to a conception which, in our view, is more conservative about what « pornography» means, it is also true that, for the Public Ministry, according to its opinion, the definition of « pornography» used in the project of the Left Block contributes to a better and safer subsunction to the objective type of illegal, not meriting any repair on the part of this entity. From the words to the consequences of legislative initiatives, the petition argues that the disclosure of these recordings should be a public crime in any circumstance. The proposal of the Left Block weighs on different situations. If in the simple illegal recording the victim may defend himself better, by his own decision about making or not making complaints, the same does not happen when photographs or videos are widely disseminated. in these circumstances, we believe that people who receive or find these photographs or videos do not always have knowledge of who is the victim to alert her, making it impossible any action that involves disclosure that does not report her, in a generalized way, through public crime. This is the path that the Left Block considers to be the best to recognize and protect the victims of unauthorized pornography. We are aware that different paths have been presented by other parties and we are available to discuss all these projects in the specialty. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u395	To submit Bill No. 347 / XV / 1. a, from the PS, has the floor to Mrs Cláudia Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u396	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Increasing penalties is not the best remedy for social problems and, therefore, the bill that we present today has an absolutely exceptional nature, because we propose to increase the penalty applicable to the crime of private firearms for imprisonment for up to five years. However, the project has another dimension, and that is what we particularly want to emphasize, which is the immediate cessation of the dissemination of the images. Request No 209 / XIV / 2. the and, above all, the hearing of the petitioners, who greet the person of the first subscriber, Mariana Fernandes, helped us to think. So here is the record of our gratitude and respect. We don't converge on solutions, but we converge on the diagnosis. The criminal responses we have today are insufficient and two examples can help us to understand why this failure. The first imaginary example is that of Alice, who is married to Bernardo, and both agreed to record moments of her sexual intimacy. When Alice decided to divorce herself, Bernardo shared the recordings on the Internet for the purpose of mistreating. And he did. Alice became ill, closed at home, stopped working, sought psychiatric support. in this case, Bernardo practiced a domestic violence crime, which is punishable by imprisonment for up to five years. But let us look at the second example, also imaginary, that is that of Carla, who used an application of meetings and met Daniel. Daniel recorded, without Carla knowing it, the intimate moments that occurred during the only night that spent together and then shared these recordings at the university where they both studied and also shared them on the Internet. Carla left the university, moved from town, then changed again, because the images chased her, moved back, gave up finding a place where peace was possible and tried suicide. in this case, Daniel practiced a crime of private life firewall, which is punishable, today, with imprisonment up to a year. This is the first problem that our project aims to answer: if there is no marital or dating relationship between those who share the images and the victim, there will be no crime of domestic violence, there will only be a crime of devass of private life, and the maximum limit of a year of imprisonment which, today, we seem manifestly insufficient and therefore propose its increase. Our subject is the sharing of intimate images without consent. Therefore, our subject is not sex crimes, as the NAP project intends, because it is not at stake the victim's subjection to the practice of unwanted sexual acts; our subject is not pornography either, as the project of the Left Block aims, because the people portrayed or filmed do not intend to share with a wider, more definite circle of recipients. Our topic is even the indiscrimination and therefore we believe that it should be treated in the context of the crime of privacy, which is not a public crime. in a series of Spanish television, called Privacy, two women who do not know each other are victims of this crime—and I will only mention aspects of the first episode, so as not to undermine the interest of those who may want to see the series. [[Laughing.]] One of the victims is worker and suicide, the other is Vice President of the Bilbao Chamber. In Spain, this crime against the reserve of private life is also not a public crime and therefore the criminal proceedings depend on complaint. At some point, Malen, the political victim, this victim to whom another rival politician had already asked if she felt ashamed, asked her father for help, a very well-conceived lawyer, and asked: "What do I do? Should I file a complaint? I know it's the right thing, what's exemplary, but I just want to keep going and don't let this ruin my life. » It happens, of course, that the scandal is public and Malen Zubiri is contacted by a police officer, who says: "I don't want you to investigate what happened! No, until I decide! If you decide! I have that right. And the police answer: "Whenever you want, you will be heard without criticism. But remember, if you have forgotten, that you are a victim. Do not keep on seeking. ” With this bill, what we want to say to the victims of these crimes is that we recognize them as such and we want to ensure more adequate penalties to the severity of the conduct of the aggressors. We want above all that the images and recordings are no longer shared and that is why it is imposed on the intermediary providers of network services, blocking and communicating duties to the Public Prosecutor. We know that the legislator cannot change the social perceptions through the Journal of the Republic, but we hope to contribute so that more victims can say what Malen Zubiri said in the speech he announced that he would not give up anything, and I will quote: "I am not ashamed. I leave that to those who tried to use my private life to destroy me. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u397	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u398	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The dissemination and dissemination of intimate content without the consent of the victim is a type of crime that has taken advantage of the digitization and massification of social networks to create a feeling of impunity, since the online platforms on which content can be disclosed anonymously and not traceable, making it difficult to combat and prevent this new crime of the 21st century. The answer to this problem cannot escape the reality with which one intends to combat or adopt policies to combat these crimes, a reality, in fact, in which it is difficult to identify the perpetrators of the crimes and the interruption of the sharing of these contents. This Parliament, as a legislator, can establish an increase in penalties for the crime of privacy and can even create a new legal type of crime, covering the complex issue of the propaganda of pornography of revenge and the dissemination of intimate online content without consent. However, the fight against this sad reality cannot be turned off from preventive action, using awareness-raising and prevention campaigns among the most diverse age groups. Having said this, consciously, and in this specific case, we will not be against an aggravation of the penalties, which are currently reduced, when compared with other legal types of crimes and when weighed with the prolonged psychological and social effects and damage that are caused to the victims. There are, however, some doubts about the procedures that are planned and imposed on service intermediaries. Will these be effective with regard to the removal of online content? We cannot ignore that the damage suffered by the victims is enhanced by the permanence of photos and videos on the Internet. As is already our characteristic, with a serious and responsible stance, the Liberal Initiative will be committed and attentive to the debate on this subject. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u399	For an intervention on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party, Mrs Sofia Matos has now spoken.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u400	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In California in 2012 a 15-year-old girl committed suicide after having been released throughout the school, photographs of herself, naked, and after a rape committed by her schoolmates. Ann Marie saw pictures of her naked eBay that were on a hard drive and that were later stopped at a porn site by the hand of her former boyfriend. Karla had a photographer boyfriend who, after finishing her date, spread out to her workplace and her current boyfriend pictures, naked. Regina was drugged and raped by her ex-husband and another man at the same time. The videos of the rape went to stop the school directors where she worked and, guess, was fired because of that. Nikki's ex-girlfriend created a website and in it published videos that were from hidden cameras that he spread through her room. These stories seem very distant to us, because we have never been victims of them, but could be the story of Sofia, Alexander, Patrice or even Augusto. [[Laughing.]] They could be our stories—and they don't laugh, because it's not funny—they could be the stories of your daughters and your children. I ask you: if this were to happen to us, what impact would it have on our lives and on the lives of our families? It's a question to stay in our heads. Therefore, and first of all, I would like to thank Mariana Fernandes, as well as the 8513 subscribers of this petition, who have brought us today to discuss such a relevant matter and which, in fact, deserves special attention from the legislator. I say'special attention' and it is not by chance, it is because these cases are already found in the Portuguese Penal Code protection and protection. The non-consensual dissemination of intimate content is already a conduct that is specified in the law, since Article 192. that of the Criminal Code, whose heading refers us to the firewall of private life. Moreover, the legislator also wanted to establish an aggravating component of the sentence, when the fact is practised through the media, the Internet or other widespread media. However, in a society that is increasingly digital, in which new technologies are proliferated and in which the dissemination of information takes place almost, or practically, instantaneous — especially through social networks, which does not seem to make sense, from then on, is to place on the very level of gravity, even because of the impact this has on the lives of the victims, the devastation of the intimacy of family life and the devastation of the intimacy of sexual life. I would like to exemplify: record a conversation, listen behind the doors or disclose a detailed invoice, electricity or gas, cannot deserve the same criminal protection as, by false faith, they capture themselves and spread images of a naked man or woman, a man or a woman practicing sex. It is about profaning, stealing and spreading by strangers what is most intimate, our «me», our soul, our body! And even if it is not to false faith, and even if this sex is allowed or these photographs are allowed, sharing is not, it is always intolerable to do so and it is a crime! In fact, let's all be well aware, both inside and outside, that it not only commits the crime that captures, but also commits the crime that spreads through social networks or whatsApp. [[PSD applause.]] For all this and because of all this and because the victims of this crime are inevitably, inevitably, victims of a crime that is perpetual — we will hardly be able to erase the content for the rest of the lives of the victims — because in recent years we have witnessed an exponential increase in the unconcended disclosure of these images of a sexual character, because the disclosure of these images or videos can cause serious and irreparable harm to victims — as it has already been said here, because in recent years we have witnessed an exponential increase in the victims of this crime, because in recent years we have witnessed an exponential increase in the exponential, professional and social life, because in recent years we have witnessed an exponentially increased number of their personal, professional and social life, because in recent years we have witnessed an exponential projects of their personal, professional and social lives, because they are increasingly increasingly growing young people who commit themselves and those who are victims of this crime of a sexual crime, because, in our understanding of this crime, because the dissemination of this crime, because the victims of this crime are inevitably and because the crimes are inevitably inevitably the crimes that are inevitably the victims of life of this crime which is a perpetual crime, because we are inevitably the crimes that is inevitably, because we will perpetual — we are inevitably, because we are inevitably a perpetual — we are inevitably, because we are inevitably, because we will hardly unable and because we can hardly unable and because we can hardly unable to erase and because we are, because we are, because we are, because we can hardly unable to erase and because we are, because we are, because we are, because we are unable to erase and because we are unable to erase and because we are unable to erase and because we are unable to erase and because we are unable to erase the content and because we are unable to erase the content and because we are unable to erase the content of the content of the content of the content of the content of the content of the content of the content of the content of the content of the content of the content of the content of the content of the content of the content of the content of the content of the content of the content of the content of the content of the content of the content of the content of the content of the content of the content of the content of the content of the content of the content of the content of the content of the content of the content of the content of the content of the content of the content of the content [[Congratulations from PSD, IL and BE MP Joana Mortagua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u401	For an intervention, on behalf of the...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u402	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u403	Ask for the floor to what effect, Mrs. Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u404	Mr President, I am sorry, but we subscribe to a request for clarification to Mrs Sofia Matos.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u405	The Bureau did not understand this, Mrs Deputy. Mrs. Sofia Matos has 38 seconds, but they're negative, which means that the Socialist Party can ask the question, it can't get the answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u406	Mr President, I am sorry, but the Liberal Initiative is giving up the time it still has to Mrs Sofia Matos, so that she can respond. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u407	So, for a request for clarification to Mrs Sofia Matos, you have the floor of Mrs Cláudia Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u408	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have four bills under discussion; by order of entry, that of the Arrival, that of the PAN, that of the Left Block and that of the Socialist Party. And Mrs. Sofia Matos came here to express the deep commitment of the PSD, which has no legislative initiative, to propose a solution to non-consensual dissemination. There are several models of legislative intervention under discussion. My question is, do you think it should be a crime against sexual freedom, as the Left Block and the PAN want, or a crime against private life? Do you think it should be a public crime or, as we understand it, a semi-public crime? We would like to hear the PSD's opinion on these issues. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u409	To answer, in a long second, you have the word Mrs. Sofia Matos.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u410	Mr President, the compliance I have made with you in advance will certainly contribute to you having some part in it. With regard to the question put to me by the Socialist Party, which I would like to thank for the legislative intervention, in fact, we follow the Socialist Party's proposal, when it involves this in a crime that has to do with the devasiveness of private life and no longer with crimes against sexual freedom. That is why we are clear on this issue. In relation to whether or not to be a public crime, it is currently a semi-public crime. at this time, we agree with the way the system has programmed this crime and also the Supreme Council of the Magistracy as well as the comparative law gives us reason. That is how I can answer you, expressing once again our willingness to contribute in the field of specialization. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u411	Now, yes, for an intervention on behalf of the Portuguese Communist Party, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u412	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to congratulate the petitioners first of all for bringing this issue to debate. For several factors, cases of non-consensual dissemination of intimate contents have been increasing. And, although these cases take several contours, what has happened is that this crime aims to reach mostly women, largely on account of retrograde concepts and prejudices. As it is found that, most of the time, these images or various contents are first disclosed to humiliate an ex-partner or former partner, but can also be used to threaten, harass and control the current or old partner, and these threatening behaviors already constitute, by themselves, a form of violence against the other, bringing, by themselves, very negative impacts. It is also known that the victims end up silent, because, in addition to all the associated shame, of all fear and suffering, there is still the fear of revitalization and guilt of the victim and his humiliation for the action that gave rise to the unconsensible sharing. Unfortunately, there is no need to list cases known for the worst reasons, because they have led to desperate outcomes. The violation of fundamental rights, such as the right to free development of personality and the right to personal integrity, which include freedom and sexual self-determination, but also the reserve of private life, is at stake. And they are still concerned with other dimensions of life, such as the right to work, often in a lasting way. In fact, there is a consensus that better legal solutions are needed to safeguard these values. Solutions that point to translating the social censorship that this crime deserves in the Criminal Code, making a social reality correspond to the law; solutions that aim to end the damage as soon as possible, that render the dissemination responsible and that also protect the right to prevent such dissemination. The cessation of non-consensual dissemination of intimate contents is, in fact, the essential condition for repairing the damage caused. These solutions should be improved in terms of specialty, in particular the question of whether or not to empower the crime. This question is also raised in the opinions which have reached the Assembly of the Republic and deserves reflection. The Socialist Party's bill seems a good basis for us to go to a specialized work with a view to greater protection of the victim. On the other hand, we do not understand that solutions to make this a public crime should be adopted. Justice must be done, yes, but not despite the will of the victim; it must be done with the victim. The autonomy of the victim is to be respected and the will of the victim cannot only be instrumental to the idea of justice. Yes, it is necessary to create the conditions so that everyone will never stop demanding justice for fear, shame or disbelief in justice itself. But we are also not in favour, for example, of solutions that involuntarily perpetuate the liability of the victim, particularly with the name adopted for the crime of "unconsensible pornography". With this in mind, we will work as a specialist to find a legislative amendment that serves our common objectives: to create a real awareness of these issues, a different awareness of sexuality and, above all, better conditions for the realization of justice and protection of the victim. [[PCP and PS MPs applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u413	For an intervention on behalf of the Free Party, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u414	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by thanking the petitioners and the petitioners and all the parliamentary groups who have presented projects here, because they call us to a debate about a reality that is growing, that is not small, that is real, that is present in life—especially with a gender dimension— of many women and many young people, today, and that, despite being a waste of private life, also has a new aspect of control of sexuality and self-determination, in particular of women and young people. It is not, nor should it be at stake, the will of the person himself to photograph himself or film himself, but the unconsensual sharing of these contents, the sharing of these contents without the permission of the person himself or, in most cases, of himself. in this discussion it is important to determine what kind of crime we are talking about, but it is also important to determine the competences, tasks and research capacity of criminal investigation institutions, because otherwise we create new crimes, but we have no capacity to investigate, to be able to judge and punish. Then it is important, at the time of the trial, to be sure that the contents are removed from the network, preventively—that they do not expect the trial to end—and that after that trial there is an effective right to forget on the part of the victim. It is on the basis of these assumptions that the Free will participate in the discussion, in the field of expertise.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u415	Mr Ventura has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u416	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: The House recognises the participation of all in this debate that is important and that it will certainly be able to bring us at least one proposal which is consensual, although we must recognise that some of the interventions that have been made here — particularly the PSD and the Liberal Initiative — have not been translated into any bill brought to this House, when it was known that this work was taking place, which was being done, and with the public importance given to it. Then we must also say the following: the Socialist Party's proposal does not empower this crime, it retains it as part of the firewall of private life.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u417	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u418	So basically, from a dogmatic point of view, it means that showing a bill of electricity or a photo of sexual charis is the same thing, and this makes no sense from a legal point of view. This is one of the problems: empowerment. One can agree or disagree, but the non-autonomy of this crime brings serious systematic problems, in particular to its application by the courts. The second problem is that of differentiation, for example, when referring to one case that occurs in the context of domestic violence and another that does not. The opinion of the Supreme Council of the Magistracy says: '(...) it must be recognised that, in the current framework, there is an enormous asymmetry between the punishment envisaged for this behaviour(...) in the context of domestic violence, or outside it,...' — and I stress now to those who spoke about the increase in penalties — '... being manifestly mild the punishment...', as was recognised by the PS, '... established for these latter cases, which makes it imperative, in fact, to recognise the gravity of such crimes by the legislator(...)'. Therefore, the opinion of the Supreme Council of Justice is clear: it points out that penalties must be increased, it does not, in fact, clarify the sense of empowerment, but gives us a lead. And the clue we have here is that it's not a crime of sexual assault, it's a crime of private fire. Dogmatically speaking, crimes related, typically, to crimes of sexual assault...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u419	It's not sexual assault!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u420	...have nothing to do with this. Excuse me for being frank and for being honest, but they have nothing to do with it. We can mix everything up if we want, but they have nothing to do with it. Finally, Mr President — and I know that my time is no longer long enough — on the subject of the victim's will, we admit that there is a question to be discussed, namely whether the crime should be of a public or semi-public nature. It is a profound discussion — I will even finish, Mr President — and that seems to make sense. But we must not forget this: in our Code of Criminal Procedure we have an instrument called "provisional suspension of the proceedings", which can and should be applied in these cases, as it is recognised in other draft laws, without having to cry about whether it is public or not. The provisional suspension of the proceedings may resolve the situation. We have a good basis here to start the discussion in the field of expertise. Mr. President, thank you for your tolerance. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u421	We thus end the debate on this point and with it the agenda. I give the floor to Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha, to give us an account of the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u422	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted by Mr President, the following legislative initiatives : Draft Constitutional Review No 1 / XV / 1. a ( CH) and Draft Law No 348 / XV / 1. a ( PS ), which falls to 10. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-12.u423	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, our next plenary meeting will be tomorrow at 3 p.m. First of all, we are going to have a current debate required by the PSD on the privatisation of TAP. We shall then proceed to the discussion of the Bill No 24 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Mental Health Act and amends related legislation, in conjunction with Bills 335 / XV / 1. a (L) — Creates a mental health plan in educational centers and prison establishments, 339 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Creates the Mental Health Check, with the purpose of ensuring timely access to psychiatry consultations and psychological consultations and 346 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Law of means for mental health and with draft resolution No 177 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government put the National Mental Health Plan into action. Finally, we will also appreciate Law No 36 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to transfer to municipalities an additional municipal social fund specific subsidy in 2022. Good afternoon and until tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 7 minutes.]]
