ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 7 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries to the public and I ask the Secretary of Table Maria da Luz Rosinha to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very good day to all and to all. I shall certainly announce the names of the honourable Members. Members who participated in yesterday's video conference session because they were in prophylactic isolation: Francisco Rocha, Rosário Gambôa, Filipe Neto Brandão and Jorge Seguro Sanches, all of the Socialist Party, and Francisco Pimentel, of the Social Democratic Party. I note that they have entered the Bureau, and were admitted by Mr President, Bills Nos 73 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 78 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 80 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 81 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 83 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 85 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 87 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 88 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 9. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission, and 89 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 6. the Commission. The draft resolution No 62 / XV / 1 was added to the table. a ( CH ), which drops to 1. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u3	on the agenda for today there are three points. First, we will discuss the rules that have been advocated by different parliamentary groups for debate and vote. In the second point, we shall proceed to the vote on the rules and the articles and amendments which we shall have to vote on in plenary and, in the third point, we shall continue the discussion, in particular, of the Proposal for a Law No 4 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2022, with another group of articles of the proposed Budget to be considered. I would like to begin by welcoming the delegation of Presidents, Vice-Presidents and Commission officials of the People's National Assembly of the Republic of Guinea-Bissau, which gives us the pleasure of attending our work at Gallery II. On behalf of Parliament, I would like to greet you. [[General applause, stand up.]] Let us start the first item on our agenda on the discussion of the rules of law. Mr. Miguel Cabrita asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u4	Mr President, it is to make a request on an issue which was raised yesterday in the COF ( Committee on Budgets and Finance ) on proposal 1049 - C by the Socialist Party, amending Article 95. that of the bill, which had been accepted. Questions were raised about its admissibility and it was understood that the PS should be made at the seat of plenary, since it refers to the rules to be voted on here today. A question has been raised about the deadline, which we believe should not be put, since the vote was not yesterday, but today. It is in this sense that we present this requirement so that the replacement text can be accepted.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u5	When it comes to the presentation of an appeal to the Plenary, you have the floor to speak to Mr Paulo Mota Pinto.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u6	Mr President, our work has rules, which are in the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. In fact, democracy is rules, as you know, and one of them is that there is a time limit for the submission of amendments. This proposal has entered the system and it has been automatically assigned a number, being qualified — I do not know whether intentionally misleadingly — as a replacement proposal, when, in fact, it is clearly an addition proposal. What is at stake here is this: after a debate on local finance and 10 days after the deadline for amendments has been exhausted, the Socialist Party wants to add a new amendment proposal, presenting a proposal with a whole new article. It's no replacement! There is no amendment to the previous text and our Rules of Procedure define what are proposed for substitution, saying that they are « those which contain provisions other than those which have been submitted», and that they are proposed for addition, saying that they are « those who, while preserving the primitive text» — as it is preserved — « contain the addition of new material», as is also the case. I call on the Bureau not to allow this fraud to be allowed by the rules of 10 days after the deadline for the submission of amendments has been exhausted, after the debate in the plenary on all matters relating to local finances, to come to a party — and there may be other situations — with new additions and new articles. We think it's beyond the limit, let's say, minimum the tolerance of these kinds of maneuvers. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u7	We will then set a time limit for the parliamentary groups that wish to take a decision on this appeal, presented by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, to do so. The PS requested, however, the word, I believe, to substantiate the application for appeal it submitted. Please, Mr. Eurico Brilliant Days.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, budgetary practice in this House allows requests for replacement until the vote. This proposal 1049 - C of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group was presented as the first replacement, which was accepted by the services, by the file of this House. That is how the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group was prepared to vote. Yesterday, a set of rules on authorities and the financing of authorities within the framework of the Local Finance Act was discussed in this Chamber. Moreover, the Socialist Party, particularly Mr Pedro Cegonho, made an intervention in this framework. That is why what surprised us yesterday in the Commission was that the replacement was accepted and, after the intervention of the PSD, the Bureau did not, of course, continue with the replacement, as was our expectation. It is, however, an incident that we would not like it to happen. However, the PS Parliamentary Group has submitted a replacement which, in our view, densityes — strongly, it is true — a central element of our proposal concerning the limits of the indebtedness of the authorities. So what we propose to this House, what we require, is that our proposed replacement be accepted by this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u9	You'll accept because you have a majority!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u10	You have the floor to speak in this debate to Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u11	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, although this proposal from the Socialist Party has been presented as a replacement, it is not actually a replacement proposal, because it introduces a new article on issues which the Socialist Party had not previously submitted and what is envisaged under the Rules of Procedure is the possibility of proposals for substitution on topics that have already been submitted. Mr President, this is not just a matter of time. There is indeed an amendment to the proposal put forward by the Socialist Party and we therefore believe that it does not comply with the rules and practice of the Republic's House on these matters. Let me also add the following point, Mr President: regarding the proposal put forward by the Socialist Party, there are points which deal with the issues of other proposals which have been put forward, in particular by the CFP, and there is another point which is already resolved under the Local Finance Act. Therefore, the question of the content of the proposal and its extreme need also reveals here that this is not so. Mr President, I believe that the rules and rules of operation of the Assembly of the Republic should be ensured. We cannot allow the absolute majority on the part of the Socialist Party not to enforce these same rules, because otherwise there are no rules that apply from the point of view of the operation and of what is already previously agreed among all on these matters. We don't think this is the right way. What we find, indeed, is that, with the absolute majority of the Socialist Party and with these clearly abusive attitudes, there are no rules that apply. What is essential is to ensure compliance with the Rules of Procedure, of course, but also to respect what has been good practices and agreed upon among all. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u12	The Bureau took note of Mrs Mariana Mortágua and Mrs Mortágua's participation in the debate. Deputies Pedro Pinto and Paulo Mota Pinto. Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u13	Mr President, the practice of this House is that there is a time limit for the submission of proposals and tolerance for the replacement of those proposals, which is when the replacement does not imply a change in the content of the proposal, but rather a formality or a detail. What the Socialist Party does is something else. This is not a small deadline delivery detail. The Socialist Party adds new content to a proposal that had already been discussed in plenary and, therefore, it is not fulfilling the praxis, it is opening a precedent. It's a dangerous precedent, which the PS wants to open because it has an absolute majority, and I guarantee that if it didn't have an absolute majority, the PS would never want to open it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u14	Yes, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u15	It is precisely for the PS to have an absolute majority that we cannot allow the precedent to be opened for new proposals, with new content, to be placed in substitution processes after the debate has taken place in plenary. We therefore believe that the proposal should not be accepted. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u16	Mr Bruno Nunes has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u17	Mr. President, in your person I welcome all those present. What's happening—and I see it by the smiles on the PS bench—is a complete, pass the expression, kick in the Rules of Procedure. We know that the proposals that have been allocated and sent by the PS have not been more than a copy-paste of the proposals in recent years. Some even come with the wrong dates! So they have forgotten to make this update and now they want to run over the Rules of Procedure. [[PS protests.]] Calm down! Early in the morning, they start screaming. Take it easy. [[PS protests.]] So we already know perfectly well — keep screaming! — what will happen is that the majority will approve this. But out there it is known that the PS is in this position of "I want, I can and I command" and does whatever you want, even with kicks in the Rules of Procedure. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u18	You have the floor to speak to Mr. Paulo Mota Pinto of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u19	Mr President, the admission and vote of this proposal means violating at least three fundamental rules. Firstly, it means to qualify as a proposal for a replacement which implies obviously adding new matters. You have a whole new article, Mr. Eurico Brilliant Dias, it's not just a density. It is a new article, on a new subject, with new provisions, which means overturning the deadline we set for the amendments. Secondly, the House will vote on something which it has not discussed — which means breaking the principle that we can only vote on what has been discussed — because this proposal came in after yesterday morning this subject has been discussed.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u20	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u21	So it's something more serious! It's not just the deadline, it's voting something that hasn't been discussed. Thirdly, it means breaking the principle that the agenda is fixed and stable, that is to say, it means breaking the principle of the stability of the agenda, which has the distribution of the topics per day, as agreed at the Conference of Leaders. Therefore, there are several rules in question. We trust that these rules serve to discipline the debate, but also to protect minorities from the compressor roll of the absolute majority. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u22	We are confident that Mr President and the Bureau will be able to ensure respect for these rules. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u23	You have the floor to speak to Mr Eurico Brillante Dias of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u24	Mr President, first of all, I must disagree, because we are really talking about the agenda, which is the debate on the State budget. Therefore, we are on the agenda. And we are voting on a request because, in the context of the discussion of the State budget in the specialty, there is a set of tasks of this discussion and vote which fall within the Committee on Budgets and Finance. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u25	That is why it does not seem to me to raise any doubts. We're right on the agenda. The second question, brought up by other Members, is that we are talking about a proposal for a replacement. That is, essentially, what the Socialist Party is doing in presenting a proposal concerning the limit of indebtedness of the authorities, which it proposed yesterday. The PS was only surprised by the fact that a first admission of a file had been discussed in the Committee on Budgets and Finance, when it seemed to us that the issue would not arise. Mr President, I should like to say that compliance with the budgetary procedure has led this bank and this majority has been reluctantly accepting amendments to the proposals. It seems to us even healthy that, during the parliamentary debate, it is not possible to make new amendments, but rather to allow the parliamentary groups to replace proposals by improving them and correcting them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has done was to delineate rules, in this case a Article 95. o -A, which concerns the threshold of indebtedness of the authorities, and that is why, today, in the plenary and within the agenda, we present this request. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u26	On this subject, the Bureau noted a request for a word from Mrs Paula Santos. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u27	Mr President, on the same subject, if the Socialist Party imposes the approval of this request, this means that there will be no longer any rules on the deadline for the submission of proposals, as well as on the discussion in plenary and the vote in the Commission. Therefore, Mr President, I reiterate that, if so, there are no rules that apply to the absolute majority. This is not just a matter of way, it is a matter of ensuring, from the point of view of the functioning of the Assembly of the Republic, the conditions of democracy and compliance with the rules which are adopted. [[PCP applause.]] [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u28	Mr Paulo Mota Pinto has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u29	Mr President, I have only asked for the floor because of the reference to the agenda. Of course, we are talking about the Budget — I do not know if that was what Mr Eurico Brillante Dias referred to — but the agenda that was at stake and what I referred to was the agenda for yesterday's discussion. Yesterday we discussed the subject of local finance until Article 115. the subject matter is a proposal for the addition of a new article — until the letter is found to be a new article, 95. o -A. Therefore, it is not a mere density, it is a new matter, a new article — Article 95. the -A - which should have been discussed yesterday, according to the agenda, that we have fulfilled. It is not just about the deadline, it is about voting something that has not been discussed and violating the stability of yesterday's agenda. It is not a matter for us to be discussing this today, as it is obvious.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u30	Mr. Deputies, the arguments are put forward. At the request of the Socialist Party, we have two hypotheses: the first is to vote on it now, which implies a quorum check; the second, perhaps more practical, hypothesis is to start the voting period by voting on this request, making a quorum check valid for all the votes that we will have to do this morning. [[Pause.]] I believe that no one is opposed to following this second procedure and that is why we are going to start the debate on the rules avocados. Parliamentary groups, the Government and the sole representatives of a party shall have up to 5 minutes to speak in accordance with the order in which they are inscribed in the Bureau. Each Member Member and every Member speaking Member will do well to clarify the point of the debate on which he is referring. The first inscription is by Mrs Susana Amador of the Socialist Party, to whom I give the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the proposal for a lawyer is 1129 - C, our proposal for an amendment on Article 71. The proposal of the law. Transparency in the state's relationship with the authorities is a determining factor in this economic cycle in which we find ourselves, as well as in the context of the reform of decentralization, which is under way, and the proposed amendment of this parliamentary group, which we advocate, within the scope of the amounts of the participation of local authorities in State taxes, fulfils that desire. In the opinion of this parliamentary group, in a year in which we know that positive and negative incremental variations in the participation of state taxes will be materially relevant and expressive, it is vital that this exercise of collaboration and communication of the parameters underlying its clearance. Therefore, the DGAL (Directorate-General of Local Authorities) should communicate to each municipality the elements, parameters, support data and the value established in the distribution of public resources — a communication that has long been desired by the authorships. Similarly, this fair allocation of resources should guide the reform of decentralization, which, as we know, is central to our development, to territorial cohesion and to reverse a centralism that deepens inequalities and compromises the future, which we want to be sustainable. it has also been entered in Article 82. the proposal for a State Budget Act, the Financing Fund for Decentralisation, in which funds are allocated to the sectors of health, education, social action and culture, which in a full year will amount to EUR 1000 million. This Fund will be adjusted and updated to values based on inflation. Under the proposal to amend this parliamentary group, the Fund is even expected to be strengthened by EUR 10 million for the education sector within the framework of the school building. This sector will therefore have an amount of EUR 729, EUR 5 million. As a contribution to transparency and to this reform, this parliamentary group also presented draft resolution No 55 / XV / 1. the, which reacts to the Committee on the Monitoring of Decentralisation, which integrates all parliamentary groups, a clear sign that we have given Parliament, in such a strategic reform. I would also like to point out and point out that with the Socialist Party, the last few years have been marked by the recovery and growth of the financial capacity of the municipalities and the parish, with the increase in the value of transfers to local authorities and intermunicipal entities by 30, 1 %, compared to 2014. in this budget there are more EUR 41 million for transfers from the Municipal Social Fund — plus 25 %! — plus EUR 21 million in the participation of IRS (tax on the income of natural persons) of municipalities and more EUR 4 million for inter-municipal communities (CIM ). in this Budget, the Local Finance Act is, for the first time, met globally. The French receive more than 40 million euros, which makes it the best ever budget for the French, as ANAFRE ( National Freguess Association ) said. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Strengthening local democratic power by adding transparency throughout the local process is, after all, ensuring more development, more sustainability and better participatory democracy. It is essential that what is adjective does not prevail over the substance of the proposals. It is also essential to demonstrate here whether we are on the side of local power, on the side of the authorities, or whether we are on the side of mere procedural incidents. [[All right!]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u32	The Portuguese authorities are seeing us right now and know how important it is to continue this path, especially that of the margin of indebtedness in the financial balance of local authorities. Let's see who's on the side of local power, who's on the right side and who's always looking for The Just Form by Sophia of Mello Breyner Andresen. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u33	Mr Pedro Pinto, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the proposal we advocate is 1216 - C on Article 16. o -A. in this bench, we look into the eyes of the Members of the Socialist Party, particularly those who were elected by the interior, to see if yesterday they voted in conscience this proposal. I'm afraid most of the ladies and gentlemen. Members have not read the proposals we have made. I do not want to believe that the PS Members elected by Bragança, Vila Real, Viseu, Guarda, Castelo Branco, Portalegre or Évora have voted in conscience against a proposal aimed at fixing in the country about 300 000 young people through tax benefits, direct deduction at IRS headquarters, the exemption from IMI (municipal property tax) on the purchase of their own home or even the exemption from the payment of tolls to all with permanent housing, as well as to businesses. With what face are these Members facing their voters? Oh, my God! If this is not measures to fix people inside, then I don't know what they are! We know what the Socialist Party will do. In fact, she had already been expressed by an old Member of this House — at the time Syrian refugees were in fashion — who said that Syrian refugees would serve to repopulate the interior. Nothing more wrong. The interior of our country does not need Syrians or Moroccans or Pakistanis! You need Portuguese people with conditions to stay there. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS protests.]] The curious thing is that the PSD accompanied the PS in the lead of this proposal. And also the PCP! These, who are called big defenders of the interior, of the people of forgotten Portugal, but who then, when we have a measure that really aims to fix young people, vote against. The mask has fallen to the PCP a long time ago, it's no novelty. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u35	What the PS has in the Budget for the Interior of the Country is this: a leaf, a mere leaf talking about the interior of the Country. The speaker displayed the document he mentioned. They don't present anything else to this House. Who voted against this proposal: does not know what is a person from a Sabugal village travel dozens of miles to take a child to school; does not know what is the lack of doctors in Cinfanes ; does not know what is the GNR ( Republican National Guard) with a patrol for 100 km2. In the PS, they speak, they speak, they speak, but really, when proposals are presented inside, politicians in this House turn their backs on people. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr President, Mr Bruno Nunes' intervention is followed to complete the time available. [[PS laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u36	The gentlemen. Would you like to make the two speeches below?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u37	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u38	There's no objection, there's no objection either. Mr Bruno Nunes has the floor to conclude the period of talks in the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Take it easy, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, why don't we kick in the Rules of Procedure! We advocate Article 24. because we believe that, in fact, the gentlemen. Members have not read the proposals. In addition to the order that existed, on the part of the leader of the bench, to not answer or comment on the Arrival, there is also the order to vote against everything of the Arrival. When we talk about corruption, it is a mistake to ignore our proposal. In strengthening, in the interconnection between all inspections, in the intention of implementing ISO 37001, you completely ignore everything. There's absolutely nothing going on! However, you continue to say that there is a need for strengthening the human resources, but this has to do with the connection to SIADAP (Integrated Management and Performance Assessment System in Public Administration ), with career progression, with increases of 0, 9 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u40	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u41	So no one is persuaded to be a public official and to come to work in the fight against corruption, which seems to please you very much. The concern they show is that this is taught in the classes of citizenship. You continue to mix education with teaching. At school they can teach, but education is given at home, as much as they try to divert this aspect. [[Congrats from the CH.]] We could bring tens and dozens of facts, but I just want to tell you that we still find the tax blackout decreed in 2018 by VV. For example, we remain unanswered by the Tax Authority. But nothing happens and we continue cheerfully. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u42	Mr Diana Ferreira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we advocate voting in plenary two proposals that respond to central problems, meanings by public administration workers and by reformers and pensioners in our country, in particular with regard to the replacement and enhancement of purchasing power. The workers of the Public Administration were considered—and well! — fundamental and essential in combating the epidemic in our country. Not only in the SNS (National Health Service) but also in the public school, in social security, in the security forces and services, in the local administration, among other sectors of the Public Administration that kept the country functioning. They have been applauded and praised, but they have been losing purchasing power for more than a decade, with an accumulated loss of more than 12 %. They continue to have low wages, remain few to respond to a network of public services that has to be of quality and proximity to populations, continue to have precarious links, devalued careers and progressions that, in practice, do not occur. This continued loss of purchasing power joins the inflationary escalation and the brutal increase in the cost of living. In order to respond to this, the Government acquaints with 0, 9 % increase in wages for employees of the Public Administration. When they have the opportunity to resolve the situation and to respond to the problems felt by these workers, the Government and the PS refuse, as happened yesterday, the PCP proposal with wage increases to ensure the appreciation of purchasing power, including mechanisms that face the losses accumulated since 2010. by denying this much needed response to these workers, the PS is responsible for cuts in wages of employees of the Public Administration. It is important to know whether this is the answer that the PS wants to give to these workers, and today, with this advocacy, it is possible to change its sense of vote and to give public administration workers the answer that they need: an increase in wages covered by an option, that the PCP defends, of general increase of all wages for all workers, the public and the private; and taking on an extraordinary increase, in July, of the national minimum wage for the 800 €, with the aim of reaching the €850 in the short term, yet eliminating all instruments that prevent increases in wages, in particular the lapse of collective bargaining. We also insist—and we advocate plenary—in the vote of an extraordinary increase for all pensions by 5, 3 %, and cannot increase this extraordinary update by less than 20 € per pensioner, thus ensuring that all pensioners have an increase that corresponds to the lost purchasing power. It is also important to know whether the PS wants to put workers and pensioners to pay inflation with the loss of their purchasing power and with the degradation of their living conditions. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u44	Mrs Paula Cardoso of the PSD has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u45	Mr President, the PSD has requested the appeal of proposal 1379 - C on Article 60. the, in the name of the dignity of pensioners and to make clear the position of the PSD in relation to this. The pensioners know well that they have been losing their purchasing power, they know well about the difficulties in paying the accounts of the mercenary and pharmacy, they know well that the 10 € that the government cheerfully implores are consumed and even insufficient to cover the increase in prices and they know even better that throughout their active life they have worked and have honestly discounted in the hope of getting a decent pension, which would guarantee them a minimum of well-being at the end of their life. This proposal for the addition of the PSD is therefore fully fair: an update with rules and responsible, discussed in the context of social consultation, respecting economic cycles, respecting pension levels and a safeguard mechanism which ensures a minimum updating of pensions under 3, 5 of the IAS ( indexing of social support ). It was in the name of the dignity of pensioners that the PSD invoked this rule, so that the PS would give the answer that it should and does not ignite cheerfully with 10 €, which they do not even give to cover inflation. We will not put pensioners, already in extreme poverty, to pay and to subsidize the Government of the Socialist Party. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u46	She is registered to speak to Mrs Jamila Madeira of the Socialist Party. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u47	Mr President, this intervention by the Socialist Party is to stress that, from 2015 to today, pensions have been ordinary and greatly increased every year. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u48	What we have heard from the PSD is, of course, a fault for me, or then a very large amnesia process, because you forget the statements of cuts in pensions, in about 600 million euros,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u49	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u50	... which in no way corresponds to the proposal which you are now calling on us to vote so strongly. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Socialist Party does and demonstrates to pensioners what it wants to achieve: convergence of the real value of its pensions, creation of income, dignity for old age. That is what we have done, and that is what we will do and these are the proposals that this State budget also places on the table. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u51	To speak, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, we have advocated the plenary on our proposal 1047 - C, concerning Article 14. o -A, about the menstrual license. Yesterday, with the votes against the PS, PS, IL and CH, and the abstention from the Left Block, the NAP proposal for the creation of a three-day menstrual license for all women and all those who, having uterus, suffer from severe or incapacitating pain during menstruation was rejected. We cannot ignore this reality: women's menstrual pains can, in fact, be so incapacitating that they are disabled at work. The neighbouring Spain has recently taken this civilizational step in the direction of the conquest of women's rights. And before we hear the argument that, with these three days, women may be earning one month throughout the year, I remember that, in relation to labour issues, we did not hear the same stupefaction when the data that are brought to us annually, particularly those of PARDATA, tell us, for example, that, from 2019 to 2020, the wage gap between men and women has increased in such a way that women have to work more than 51 days—I repeat: more 51 days! — to be entitled to the same salary. More: in 2021, this gap increased by 14 %, which resulted in more than one month of work for women. However, when we are talking about something as basic as health, a constitutional and fundamental right of all women, we are denied the right to rest, to rest, not to be working or not to have a holiday or to ask for medical leave for any other reason for what should be an incontrovertible right today. The diversity of our proposal also warns of other problems that could be raised: the question of medical certificate, medical certificate, but also pay protection itself if women already benefit from a social protection system, in particular from a remunerative point of view. We do not generate any inequity in the face of the contributing regimes of other people who may have low medical conditions, nor do we generate any discrimination in the face of what may be a disease, but we cannot ignore tumor diseases, endometriosis or even silent diseases that generate this clinical picture, which is often not taken with the necessary seriousness and makes at this time there is not yet a look from the point of view of women's health. That is why we believe it to be the most fundamental justice that the House has the opportunity to vote on this measure again, hoping that it will follow the NAP until, with the NAP proposal, the possibility of regulating this matter remains in the hands of the Government. We are not directly amending the Labour Code, but we are allowing the Government to open this debate and be able to regulate it. We therefore advocate this standard in the hope that this House will stand on the side of women's rights, because in order to face the many barriers that we have daily enough social culture with a giant gap that separates us from men. We need the Assembly of the Republic to take steps to respond to the minimum of justice, at least as regards women's health.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u53	Mrs Joana Mortágua of the BE Parliamentary Group now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we welcome the NAP for bringing this discussion, because modernity and equality are also advanced rights and it is impossible to talk about public health, sexual and reproductive health and labour rights without talking about equality. As Mrs Inês de Sousa Real said, women, people with uterus, suffer from many diseases, many of them silent and some silenced. That is why we consider, on behalf of this equality, that there is no reason why a licence, called a « menstrual license», does not allow women in a situation of severe or incapacitating pain in menstrual periods to be absent from work. What we do not think is that there is discrimination in this lack of work in relation to other situations where people who are missing have their full remuneration. This is our difference in the proposal presented by the NAP. What we want — and the government no longer has anything to prevent it from doing so, but if it does not do so, the Block will move forward in this direction — is, from this proposal, to build a framework of rights in which, by proving the incapacitating situation or serious pain in menstrual period, women and people with uterus are entitled, yes, to a licence, but fully paid. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u55	I now give the floor to Mrs Rita Matias of the Parliamentary Group of the United States.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u56	Mr President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, first clarification: the people who have uterus have a name, are women. [[Congrats from the CH.]] And now let's get to the facts. The women, as I said—and well! — they receive about 200 € per year less than men. That is, for every 1 € a man receives, a woman earns only 84 cents. They are known to have more precarious employment contracts. In addition to young people, women were particularly affected in the pandemic, so their proposal not only represents a loss of pay, but also an obstacle to access to employment. The honourable Member well knows that women are already discriminated against because they are pregnant and are mothers, we are now adding another factor of discrimination because of the situation of menstruation. With this kind of measure we will only increase the wage gap between men and women, when what is intended is exactly the opposite. [[Congrats from the CH.]] So I just tell you that arrive is available to support all kinds of measures that are not indiscriminate and do not represent salary losses. You know what, Mrs. Member? We do not need their baco feminism which penalizes women to be the party that presents the most proposals in this State budget on women. Shame! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u57	Mr Rui Tavares, from the Free, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u58	Mr President, I welcome all the dear and dear colleagues and also the members of the Government. The fog visible in some parts of the plenary, at the beginning of the intervention of our colleague Inês de Sousa Real, and some of the laughter that then took place demonstrate well that, for some sectors of society, this subject still has elements of taboo and elements that are eventually understood as having a certain grace. Certainly, for those with a disease such as endometriosis, which may not be diagnosed for decades, produce enormous incapacitating discomfort every month and only come to be discovered, by chance, in the course of a surgical intervention, this subject is subject to everything but for graces. It is indeed necessary to break the taboo that exists in relation to menstruation and in relation to the concrete effects it has on the lives of many of our fellow citizens. Well, the Free will vote in favour of the NAP proposal because we consider it to be an advance. We follow closely what will be the implementation of the legislation, now approved in Spain, because it also gives us an opportunity to, looking at the country on the side, be able to understand how this legislation is being implemented. It needs, of course — I believe that the NAP's proposal takes a few steps in this direction — to have elements of monitoring and combating fraud and documentation, by means of medical prescription or hospital document. Therefore, if this proposal is approved, the Budget will improve with this, and will also improve the lives of many of our citizens. It will be a question of fairness and of treating this situation in the same way as another possibility of disease without clinical treatment, without cure, and that may be regularly incapacitating for any other citizen, worker or worker in our country. If the vote we have in the Commission remains in plenary and the proposal is not adopted, I would also like to draw attention to the proposal for a budgetary amendment to the Free Paper on this subject, which is proposal 1158 - C, which is intended to produce a study on menstrual health and its effects, its consequences, including in the world of work in Portugal, because this year, or even this year, when we discuss the 2023 budget, we will be better informed of data so that we can decide on this subject. Therefore, this is a taboo that needs to be tackled, something that is necessary to speak naturally here in the Assembly of the Republic, and - of course, it is to give our fellow citizens who suffer from incapacitating diseases throughout their menstrual period, which make it impossible for them to go to work in the best conditions, the same possibilities of equity - in a documented and controlled way, to prevent fraud that could exist, as in any other type of medical leave, that other people who suffer from other diseases have. We will therefore vote in favour, as we will also vote in favour of other measures, yours and ours, which are designed to create a more flexible working environment adapted to new times. I take advantage of the presence, here, of a representative of the Ministry of Labour, in the person of Mr. Secretary of State for Social Security, to alert us about the proposal of the four-day week, which will also allow us to draw a study that we want to carry out on new working modalities and the four-day week, with the intention of implementing it. We would very much like to see that, in its intervention time, the Government gives us here the political commitment that we will not only draw studies to draw, but to implement them, so that, in the next elections, when we speak again on the four-day week, we will speak with due knowledge, after being evaluated, in a set of companies, what are the effects, the advantages and possible disadvantages of the four-day week.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u59	Mr João Barbosa de Melo is now inscribed in the PSD Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the rule we advocate concerns proposal 1161 - C, adding an article 14. o -A. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a big deal here in the middle of this. We are not discussing the Budget in December or October last year, when we had no idea what inflation would be this year, we are discussing this point on May 24. Notice: if this had been a little longer and if we were to discuss the Budget in October, November or December, would we continue to realize that inflation was going to be low? In the decree published on 20 May, last Friday, the government itself already recognizes that inflation is there with force. in this decree, amendments to public contracts are allowed and the government itself says that the labour force is rising almost 7 %, more precisely 6, 7 %. We're not talking about anything that might happen. She's on top of us, inflation. The problem is whether or not we want to minimize the damage to public servants and other workers, because unfortunately we are no longer talking about real salary increases when we talk about 4 % of the update. We're just talking about being less bad than it's gonna be. Still, are we going to blow up to the side, when the Savings Order Office yesterday said that there is room to raise the salaries of public officials? We're gonna keep thinking no, putting our head in the sand and letting it walk? That is why we bring this proposal, so that, one more day, everyone can reflect a little better. Is this what we want to do? Is that what we want Portugal to be in 2022? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u61	Mr Paulo Moniz of the PSD Parliamentary Group is now inscribed. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the government, São Jorge has experienced a seismic crisis as there has been no memory since the 1960s. Few in this Chamber will value the fact that the earth trembles and we will hear the screams of the bowels of the earth. This is something that only those who live and feel can give due value. This circumstance prevented the Georgian entrepreneurs from having a year that, at least, was normal, from visiting the island, preventing them from having a normal life. PS Members were invited by the Ministry of Internal Administration to take a selfies and to try to pretend they were supportive of entrepreneurs. The truth is that our proposal to exempt them from social security this year has been plunged by the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u63	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u64	We want the Georgians and the Azorians to know that, at the time of truth, the PS fails the Azorians and leads the proposals for their improvement. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u65	Mr. Secretary of State for Social Security, Gabriel Bastos, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, about this discussion about updating the value of pensions, I just wanted to make a brief comment and a clarification, so that if you don't make a mistake, especially in those who listen to us and listen at home, outside this Chamber. The Government and the Socialist Party have, in the past, continued with support from their left, a policy of updating and strengthening the value of pensions. Even in difficult scenarios — in crisis scenarios and, now, in difficult scenarios also caused by the situation of the invasion of Ukraine and the increase in inflation — with these difficulties, the Government will not give up in strengthening the incomes of families and pensioners. Therefore, for the sixth consecutive year, there will be an extraordinary increase in pensions up to 2, 5 times the value of the IAS and, in July, there will be a payment with retroactive effects in January. This represents a budgetary value in the order of EUR 90 million. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make it clear and record that this is the policy of the Government, which will have its sequence in strengthening the income of families through a policy which is consistent and responsible from the budgetary point of view so that lower pensions can see their value reinforced. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u67	Mr Rui Rocha of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, with regard to the proposal for a menstrual licence submitted by the NAP, it is good to take into account, for its discussion, the current regime available to anyone who has a disabling situation. Today, any worker who has an incapacitating situation may address the doctor and, if there is justification for this, he may have a discharge, which will be paid from the fourth day. The proposal presented by the NAP has two problems: the first is that it creates a license that is autonomous, in which the reason is autonomous, and therefore contrary to what is normal in the low issues, where it does not have an indication of the reason, in which they are generic, the NAP autonomizes the reason; the second is that it does not solve the problem of remuneration. The remuneration is not foreseen and refers to the social security scheme, so there is no remuneration, unless the disability lasts more than four days. These are the problems of the NAP proposal, a proposal which is not similar - and this has been invoked in the explanatory statement - to the legislation currently being discussed in Spain. The preliminary draft which is being discussed in Spain, and which I think can serve as a reference for a serious discussion that must be held in this House, provides for a low that part of the first day and which now identifies and distinguishes probably — although it is not yet definitive — the specific situations and contexts, such as endometriosis, and the situations of more generic disability in the context of the menstrual context. So that's the theme. In fact, we have a situation which must be taken seriously and which presupposes that two or three fundamental issues are being examined. First: must there be or should there be no specific regulation of situations such as endometriosis and then another one that relates to situations of more punctual disability? It is a discussion that must be held. Second : should or should not be counted from the first day? Because the fact is that, in recurrent situations of disability, there is a penalty for people, because they can, within the limit, reach thirty days without remuneration and cannot come to work for these reasons. So here we have a set of issues that must be taken seriously and the Liberal Initiative demonstrates all the availability and all the interest in discussing them and in presenting a structured proposal, which can respond to the real needs of the menstrual context and which takes into account the specificities of each of these issues. It is therefore our commitment to move forward in a serious discussion and to follow the solutions that can be discussed in this House. With regard to the proposal to update the salaries of the Public Service presented by the PSD, and now, with regard to all those presented in this context, I would say that there are three blocks of solutions in this House: on the one hand, that of the PS and the Government, which proposes timely measures, in a perspective also caretaker, with limited impact measures such as the IRS Young, etc. ; then we have that of the PCP, the Left Block and the PSD, which propose a review of the salaries of the public service ; and we have a third proposal, that of the Liberal Initiative, which is of broad spectrum, which is the proposal for a reduction of taxes, namely through a single rate for the first five steps of the IRS, which has an advantage over all the others: it is for everyone. Everyone is covered, pensioners, self-employed, workers on behalf of others. Therefore, we will maintain our proposal, because we consider it to be broad-based and a concrete answer for all, and that is not lacking. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u69	Mr José Soeiro, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with the exception of some studies and some training actions, the absolute majority of the Socialist Party led one by one, the proposals that were discussed yesterday. in this race, they remained on the path pensioners, caregivers and informal caregivers, precarious workers, public administration workers, beneficiaries of social benefits to combat poverty, finally, all the people who live in their wages or pension and who already feel the suffering of rising prices that the government does not want to control and the salary that shrinks from inflation. We proposed the mid-term increase of the national minimum wage by more than € 30, corresponding to the 4 % that the government expects is the value of inflation. He was rejected. This rejection means at least three things: firstly, that workers will actually lose income. Although they don't lose nominal wages, they'll lose income from the cost of living. Secondly, it has the effect more than likely to increase wage poverty and to compete for the contraction of domestic demand. Thirdly, it also has the right effect of increasing the imbalance between the distribution of income, between work and capital, in line with the promises, declarations and objectives announced by the Government, in particular by the Prime Minister's voice. It is a sad mark of the first Budget of the absolute majority of the Socialist Party. We have proposed an interim increase in pensions because the extraordinary increase will be eaten—it has already been eaten, in practice—by the increase in prices that has been felt since the beginning of the year. He's been down. We propose that the solidarity complement be valued for the elderly, the poverty reduction benefits due to the update of the social support indexer also at the rate of inflation. He was plunged by the Socialist Party. We also proposed an interim increase in public administration salaries to respond to inflation. We are not talking about workers regaining purchasing power, we are simply talking about a basic measure of protection of wages and income from inflation that has already been felt, that already exists and with which workers are faced every day. We proposed to update at least the meal allowance, but this proposal was plunged by the Socialist Party. We have even proposed a simple strengthening of support for informal caregivers and caregivers, who have been fascinated by the budgetary implementation of the Government of the Socialist Party, in which it is a concrete way of boycotting the law which the Assembly of the Republic has approved. This proposal was plunged by the Socialist Party. Now, here today, this morning, we advocate a fundamental measure for the protection of incomes and for the intermediate increase of the national minimum wage. We have the opportunity to take the protection of income seriously and it is with this challenge and with this concrete action that the Socialist Party and the Government will face. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u71	There are still Members and Members. Members of the Government registered to intervene, but as we are approaching the time when we will begin the voting, I ask the services that act on the electronic quorum verification system. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u72	Mr President, I cannot fail to reply to Mrs Rita Matias. The honourable Member considers that, in defending this measure, I am a bacoca feminist. Well, Mrs. Deputy, I think it's really a problem to be a machist. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] [[CH protests.]] Mrs Deputy, it is really not to understand that society, humanity, fortunately, is made of diversity. And with pride, I am a feminist, yes, I defend gender equality and I advocate that people with uterus, men and women—because trans people should also be respected in the one who is their gender identity... [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] [[CH protests.]] ... and in what is its biological diversity - should be included not only in this proposal as in the proposal to combat menstrual poverty. [[Protests by CH Member Rita Matias.]] The honourable Member is acting as an anti-feminist. Moreover, she is part of a party whose youth coordinator thinks women are unfit for politics. [[CH protests.]] The honourable Member feels comfortable on this side of the bench, but there is, in fact, a line that separates us, and that line is civilizational, Mrs. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u73	With regard to the issue of remuneration, and considering also the clarifications that have been requested either by the Left Block or by Mr Rui Tavares, I cannot fail to mention that the NAP proposal seeks to safeguard the issue of loss of remuneration. As we are faced with a rule which aims at regulation by the government and not a direct amendment of legislation, we believe that there are more than significant conditions for all these concerns to be guarded in the regulatory framework.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u74	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u75	I really am concluding, Mr President. As I said, we understand that there are conditions for these concerns to be guarded, because what we really want to do is safeguard women's rights. There are those who despise them, there are those who are not on the right side of history, but it is not on this side of the Hemicycle, certainly.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u76	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u77	I now give the floor to Mrs. Secretary of State for Regional Development, Isabel Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Pedro Pinto, recently said that there was only a little more of a page with measures to enhance the interior. I would therefore very much like to invite you to read the hundreds of pages of the balance sheet report of the Interior Valuation Programme, with concrete investment data in these territories that translate into more than EUR 5000 million. But above all, I would like to invite you to speak to the thousands of people who have taken advantage of our measures for the exploitation of the interior, which are integrated measures — and not broken down, such as those proposed by you — to support and encourage the mobility of workers in these territories, to encourage employment, to encourage skills, to know-how, to technology, to innovation and to entrepreneurship and to invest in business. As I said, these are integrated measures and, in fact, thousands of people and families have taken advantage of them. I would just like to highlight a clear number: before the Interior Valuation Programme, with regard to the hiring of highly qualified human resources, the expression of the interior throughout the country was 20 % and now is 64%. I would also like to remind you that the criteria for defining the interior territories are not summarized in the low population density; they are the population density criteria, of course, but also sociodemographic, socio-economic, GDP (gross domestic product), the level of education of the population, among many others, and that require, therefore, integrated, complementary measures, such as those we are implementing on the ground under this Interior Valorisation Programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u79	In the meantime, there was a request for a word to defend the honor of the bench of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival... [[Oh!...]] [[“Oh!...” what?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u80	Freedom! It's April 25th... hold on!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u81	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, all Members and parliamentary groups have the right to use everything that the Rules guarantee them. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u82	Since, I believe, the request to defend the honor of the bench refers to an intervention by Mrs Inês de Sousa Real and she is already present in the Chamber, I give the floor to the leader of the Arrival, who, to this end, has two minutes. [[PS protests and CH counterprotests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a long journey ahead of us, so I would ask that the conditions be respected so that you can intervene. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in fact, I asked for the floor to defend the honor of the arrival bench because there are two important aspects to be taken into account, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real. First of all, calling a member of Parliament Pakistan is certainly not the good language that you so much advocate.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u84	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u85	...the same Member who, during the last two years, when she was offended, so many times rose from this bench. Mrs Deputy, in fact, there is a world that separates us. She is not a feminist, because, if she were, she had not been with the Socialist Party on measures that took 30 % of women's income in the last two years.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u86	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u87	That's not being a feminist, that's being sold to the Socialist Party! [[Congrats from the CH.]] I'm going to tell you more, Mrs. Deputy. The honourable Member arrives here as if she had all the prerogatives of the world to defend women. The honourable Member is one, and he does not have a parliamentary group — I know that there have already been four Members, but they have moved on to one — and this parliamentary group has a woman in 12 Members. There were 10 times more women voting in the Arrival than the PAN, Mrs. Deputy! I know it's hard for you to hear, but this is the truth about numbers. If you do not respect your voters, at least have respect for the voters of another party. It is, Madam Member, to bring to this House a proposal that takes rights from women because it gives them a license without remuneration it is certainly not a great dose of feminism, it is a blow to the rights of women that you want to bring here.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u88	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u89	And that doesn't convince not only the Arrival, it doesn't convince the Arrival how it doesn't convince the partners on its left and right, it just convinces you, because it wants to give a media hit on the days we're living, copying Spanish legislation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u90	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u91	When you want to teach moral lessons, look at your party, because of your party we do not accept any moral lessons. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u92	You now have the floor to explain, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, who also has 2 minutes to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u93	Mr President, I understand that you have not heard what the Member of your bench said. Mrs. Deputy called me a bacoca feminist... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u94	... and, if it comes to the dictionary, it perceives that « bacoca» is synonymous with « pacovia». Now, I have just explained to the honourable Member that it is to be a masquerade. If the snail served your bench, I am sorry, but in fact, I have limited myself to clarify which side our positions are on. Let this be quite clear, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u95	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u96	With regard to the NAP's position on women's rights, you can be sure that the achievements we have achieved with the various measures we have adopted, such as shelters and permits for women who are victims of domestic violence, among many others,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u97	The taxes! That's what they approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u98	...that, yes, have been the result of our negotiation, we are very proud and we are not embarrassed at anything, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u99	I know! That's why you stayed with an MP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u100	This is the difference between having adopted measures and having no approved measures. So, the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, don't cry. [[CH protests.]] If there was an offense to honor, not only a Member of this House, but above all of all of the women who are feminists and who throughout history have fought for women's rights, it was on this side of the bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u101	What is being a feminist?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u102	You are not feminists, and that will be like your juice, of course. Now, I am sorry, but it is not because these improprieties have been made in relation to the proposals that are put forward and what each of us claims they will be right. Mr President, I can only be one and not have a parliamentary group, but rather be one and have an idea formed by values consistent with those of the 21st century than to continue to defend the ultimate of the « God, Fatherland and Family», of the New State and of the time of the other woman. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u103	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, as regards your proposal on the internal market, I should like to say that the answer that the internal market needs is to create jobs with rights, value of wages, the existence of close public services that respond to the needs of the people, and none of this was included in the proposal of the arrived against which we voted. [[PCP applause.]] [[CH protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we insist that the general increase in wages is a national emergency situation, such as the extraordinary increase in pensions, to restore the purchasing power of workers, pensioners and pensioners, assuming particular importance at a time when workers, pensioners and pensioners see their salaries and reforms escape from between their fingers, in view of the brutal increase in the cost of living. It is possible to respond to these central problems by approving the proposals which the CFP has advocated for voting today, in plenary, with mechanisms for the wage valuation of public administration workers, including to respond to the accumulated loss of purchasing power, over a decade—and this is not only a matter of guaranteeing justice to these workers, but also of valuing public services and social functions of the State—and to ensure an extraordinary increase for all pensioners and pensioners of at least €20 in their pensions. The extraordinary consecutive increases that have existed in recent years were due to the insistence of the CFP. We know that the PS did not want to guarantee them and that it was the intervention and insistence of the PCP in these extraordinary increases that made that path be made. Today it is necessary to go further and realize which side is that the PS is positioned on this issue. The refusal of these proposals means cutting wages and pensions and holds the PS accountable for a way of impoverishment that will be imposed on workers, pensioners and pensioners in our country. If the PS rejects these proposals also shows that it wanted this absolute majority, an absolute majority to block advances in rights, to block advances in wages, to block advances in reforms and pensions and also income. Even to finish, Mr. President and Mr. Members of the PS, considering the intervention made, the guarantee of the dignity of workers, pensioners and pensioners is made with the value of their salaries and with the appreciation of their reforms and pensions and not with care measures. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u105	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the period of examination of the legal standards, we shall now proceed to the vote. I ask the services to close the registration in the electronic quorum verification system and present the results. [[Pause.]] We have a quorum to vote. I think all of you. Members were able to register their presence electronically.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u106	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u107	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u108	It is for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings and the votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u109	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u110	Mr President, it is to understand the Bureau's decision on whether or not to vote on a request which is manifestly against the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and which can only be accepted if the Bureau agrees that the request, which is manifestly against the Rules of Procedure, does not, after all, violate it. I would therefore like to know what the Bureau's interpretation of this request by the Socialist Party is manifestly against the Rules of Procedure and I would like to know if it will put it to the vote, which should not happen because it is against the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u111	Mr President, as you have been informed recently, I shall proceed to the vote on the appeal tabled by the Socialist Party and that will be the first vote we will make, because it will either or not condition one of the last votes in the specialty we must make in plenary.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u112	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u113	I assume that it is also for an appeal to the Bureau. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u114	Mr President, this appeal implies, in our view, an amendment to the agenda, insofar as it contains the distribution of the items for each day. In other words, the agenda does not contain only the discussion of the State budget in the specialty, it also contains the distribution of topics for each day. Therefore, if this appeal is approved by the absolute majority, this means that there is an amendment to the agenda that is not unanimous. I think it is a basic principle that any Bureau, and any general assembly, knows — cannot change the agenda without unanimity. I do not want to challenge Mr President's decision, but I want to draw attention to this point. There is nothing here that is available for the majority compressor roller. It is concerned to amend the agenda, insofar as it had the distribution of the items per day, and it is also concerned, if the appeal is approved, to vote on something that has not been discussed and to consider that the deadline for the submission of amendments, which in this case has been exceeded in 10 days. [[PSD applause.]] In essence, Mr President, I would like to ask what the Bureau's position on this matter is, since we need to know whether, in future, the agenda can be ruled by the majority freely, whether the deadline for amendment does not matter and whether matters which have not been discussed can be voted on. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u115	Mr President, do you allow me to also use the floor for an appeal to the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u116	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u117	Mr President, it is just to say that, in our view, what is at stake — and we do not want to reopen the debate — is a different argument. What the Socialist Party has asked for today was the replacement of the agenda. This topic was discussed yesterday. under Article 95. the, what the Socialist Party has submitted was a request for substitution, something that can be done by the time of the vote, a vote that we will then have. That is why there is no amendment to the agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u118	Mrs. Members, the Bureau, however, has recorded more entries for requests for speech. First of all, Mr Carneiro will speak on this subject as Vice-President of the Committee on Budgets and Finance. Mr André Ventura will then use the floor. You have the floor, Mr. Hugo Carneiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u119	Mr President, first of all, I welcome you, the members of the Bureau and the Members of the Bureau. Ladies and gentlemen. Yesterday, I chaired the Committee on Budgets and Finance, in place of the President, who, as you know, has been absent, so I think that my clarification may be important, taking into account the issues currently being raised. I refer to the procedures that the COF table followed yesterday. First of all, I have put again the consideration of the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, the possibility of reaching some kind of understanding. This was the first approach to the COF table, taking into account the concerns of each of the Members. Members brought to the discussion in the specialty. Since it was not possible to reach an understanding, I suspended the work for 15 minutes to have an opportunity to examine the proposals in question. The table should not make hasty decisions. Regarding the proposal submitted by the Socialist Party, I conclude that it, in genesis, has in some way matter related to the question of the indebtedness of municipalities. So somehow it has related matters, but it adds new rules that had no opportunity to be discussed in plenary. Therefore, if the discussion was still open in plenary, I would have accepted the proposal in the Committee on Budgets and Finance, as I had had the opportunity to say yesterday. However, that moment was closed. I also had the opportunity to ask Parliament's services to advise the FOC to confirm with DAPLEN (Plenary Support Division) that the discussion of these specific articles had already been done in the plenary yesterday, because that doubt arose. By the way, some of us. Members and members of the government had the opportunity to tell me that they felt that, eventually, this could still be open. We confirmed and concluded that the discussion was closed. It was in the light of the fact that the discussion was closed that I had no other chance than to reject the proposal, without prejudice, as I also said, of the parties, the parliamentary groups, through the legislative figures at their disposal, take the necessary steps to understand. What I thought at the time — and that was an absolutely decisive point — was that it would be very difficult for this Parliament to accept proposals which will not be discussed at any other time. This opens up a precedent that seems serious to me. I do not want to make it conditional on the Bureau of the Assembly of the Republic, but I believe that this clarification is important for the President and other members of the Bureau. I did not want to give up on my conscience. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u120	Mr. André Ventura has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u121	Mr President, I think the explanation was quite clear. And following what Mr Pedro Filipe Soares said, we believe that this is an illegal request made outside the Rules of Procedure. There is an increase, it is not simply the re-supply of the same matter, which is functionally related, but adds content. So there is somehow, as Mr Paulo Mota Pinto said, an amendment to the agenda. The Rules of Procedure are very clear on this: when there is an amendment to the agenda, it must be unanimous. If the President understands it differently, there will be recourse to plenary and a decision under Article 59. the Rules of Procedure, applied analogically to at least the situation herein. That is why it is not possible for us to simply have an announcement of a requirement that violates the spirit of the Rules of Procedure. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u122	Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u123	Mr President, I believe that it has become clear to all that this request proposed by the Socialist Party does not meet the rules of procedure...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u124	Wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u125	...and therefore should not be accepted. There is a regulation that has been approved. We cannot accept that whenever the rules and rules contained in the Rules of Procedure are not convenient for the Socialist Party to resort to the will of the absolute majority to be imposed throughout the Assembly of the Republic. This is not a matter of detail, nor is it a minor issue. It is a fundamental issue in our functioning. What has to be assured, Mr President, is compliance with the Rules of Procedure and in this sense we call for such compliance and for this to be accepted. [[Congratulations on the PCP and Mr José Moura Soeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u126	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has asked for a second plea on this subject. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u127	In fact, it is a new plea, admitting what Mr President has said earlier. With an absolute majority, it is the Bureau of the Assembly, and Mr President in particular, or the President of the Assembly at that time, which ensures that the law is not run by any systematic remedy for plenary, in which the absolute majority becomes the compressor role of the rights of all and of all who are not submitted to it. Therefore, whether or not to accept this request, which, as it has already been widely visible, has no statutory coverage, is not a detail, it is a decision on the suitability and independence of the Bureau and Mr President in particular on the mandate given by an absolute majority to the largest parliamentary group and its inability — from the point of view of democracy so is — to impose its will unilaterally to the House. That's why the law serves. The law, which in this case is the Rules of Procedure, serves to defend the rights of all Members of Parliament. Mr President, I have asked again to say the following: I have already stated, by your previous speeches, that the Bureau will accept this request. If you do so, from our point of view, it will be a serious blow to the Rules of Procedure and it will be a serious sign that, at the most demanding moment for any Bureau of the Assembly, which is the moment of an absolute majority, after all, there is no protection of the law in this context. If this happens, and I would like you to be prepared for it, we want to resort to a decision to accept this request for plenary so that it is fully known who is voting in favour of the Rules of Procedure and who is defending the law that protects the rights of those who do not think under the mandate of the Socialist Party, have freedom and respect the mandate given by the Portuguese and Portuguese. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u128	Mr. Paulo Mota Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u129	Mr President, it is only to add the following: if the agenda is changed without unanimity, we believe that there is a clear violation of the Rules of Procedure and a fundamental principle that governs, indeed, all the assemblies in Portugal and anywhere in the world. In addition, we believe that if there is a vote on an amendment to a rule which has not been discussed and cannot be discussed, there is also a clear violation of the Constitution, which requires that only subjects which have been debated be voted on, which is not the case. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u130	I think the House is clear...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u131	What about Mesa? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u132	... so that you can form your own decision. I am grateful for the clarifications provided by the Vice-President, President-in-Office, of the Committee on Budgets and Finance, which have allowed us to know what has happened. My understanding is that there is no amendment to the agenda. There is clearly a divergence of interpretations on the meaning and scope of the proposed replacement presented by the Socialist Party. There is no question of the possibility to submit replacement proposals until the vote, which is at stake an assessment of the content and scope of the proposed replacement. I therefore accept the appeal of the decision taken by the Committee on Budgets and Finance, because this is a right of a parliamentary group. And, as has already been reported by at least two parliamentary groups, I will accept the intention of resorting to this decision for the plenary, and proceed accordingly. The first vote we shall take is on my own decision to admit the appeal, since there is a appeal for this decision to plenary. We shall then vote on the appeal announced by two parliamentary groups of my own decision to accept the appeal of the Socialist Party. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the CCP, the BE and the NAP and the L abstention.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the appeal submitted by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group against the decision taken yesterday by the Committee on Budgets and Finance, not accepting a proposal for a replacement submitted by the PS. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against the PS, CH, IL, the PCP and BE and abstentions of the PAN and L.]] [[PSD, CH, IL, PCP and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u133	On the basis of this result, I inform the House that all parliamentary groups, that this understanding now covered, the scope and content of a proposed replacement, will then be applied by the Bureau to all proposed replacements which will be the subject of appeal for the plenary of decisions of the FCO...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u134	It's gonna be nice, go!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u135	What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u136	... and I appeal to all parliamentary groups, all of which have experienced and knowledgeable Members of the discussion process in the speciality of the State budget, which avoid the repetition of procedural differences, because these procedural differences weaken our own ability to carry out our work. [[PSD, CH, IL, PCP and BE protests.]] The gentlemen. Mr. Paulo Mota Pinto, from PSD, and Mr. Rodrigo Saraiva, from IL, asked for the floor. Please, Mr. Paulo Mota Pinto.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u137	Mr President, I would like to make a statement of vote on these votes. The PSD voted against the admission of the appeal and the appeal because we believe that the precedent created here today is serious. It means not only that the deadlines for the submission of amendments become purely indicative but also that they may be opposed by a supposed change in the qualification of the proposal. And in this case, it was not a mere divergence of qualification, since in no way a proposal for the addition of a new article, with a new subject, new provisions, could be qualified as mere replacement proposal. [[Sure!]] [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u138	It is also a serious precedent, because it will mean that the Assembly of the Republic will vote on something that I could not discuss, which has not been discussed. I do not know whether this has already happened in this Parliament, or even in some legislature, since this Parliament has been designated as the Assembly of the Republic, i.e. Parliament was faced with the situation of having to vote on a rule which could not be discussed, which has not been discussed, and for which the agenda had already been discussed. It is also, thirdly, a case of pretermination of the agenda. Mr President informed us that he understood that this was not the case and that would probably mean that he would understand that the distribution of topics at the Conference of Leaders does not form part of the agenda. That is not our understanding, if it were any budgetary matter that could be discussed on any day and it is obvious that the Bureau would not admit it. So we want to regret this precedent. This is obviously not corrected by the idea that the same criterion will apply, which is basically the lack of criteria, to future votes. [[PSD applause.]] And, worse, it's the lack of criterion for the absolute majority compressor roll. We didn't expect this from this Bureau of the Assembly of the Republic! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u139	I am aware that Mr Rodrigo Saraiva has, in the meantime, abstained from the use of the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u140	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u141	Is it also to make a statement of vote, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u142	Mr President, that is how I asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u143	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in this Chamber we have made two votes and my statement of vote concerns the two votes. As for the first one, what we have voted on was also the opportunity of a parliamentary group which is not in accordance with the decision of the Commission Bureau to appeal to this decision for plenary. And I must say that it is serious that a parliamentary group can be voted on in this plenary. More: what was done was to leave to the hands of a conjuncural majority the possibility of a parliamentary group resorting to the plenary. And that, yes, democratically, with regard to the operation of this Chamber, seems to me to have been very dangerous. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This majority will not prevent any parliamentary group from resorting to the plenary of the decisions of a committee. [[CH and IL protests.]] Therefore, the so-called "compressor roll" is only the Portuguese democratic will to say that my parliamentary group, this parliamentary group, has the right to appeal to the plenary of committee decisions, and that right we will never compromise. [[CH and IL protests.]] But there's more. So whenever the parliamentary groups want to resort to the plenary of committee decisions, we will be here to...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u145	Or vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u146	...a viability. According to this: once again, in the PSD vote statement, the idea that it is a lot of genetics, of the genesis of this circumstance was started. The gentlemen. Members insist that an amendment is in issue and I will continue to say that, in our view, it is a replacement. We therefore have every legitimacy to present the replacement until the vote, it is a right of this parliamentary group that we will not cease to exercise either. And I want to say more: this right of substitution is a right of all parliamentary groups and of the Members. Single Members, and it is a useful right, very useful for the budgetary procedure. [[Yeah, it's...]] [[CH and IL protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u147	More: it is so useful that, over the past few decades, this substitution process has been important to adopt good budgetary standards. What we hope is that these good budgetary rules will be approved by this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u148	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Bureau shall record three more entries for the submission of explanations of vote. You have the floor for this purpose, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u149	Mr President, it is to note that the NAP will never obstruct an appeal for plenary,... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u150	... either to accept or reject the proposals, because we believe that it must be the plenary, regardless of the majority formed either in committee or in plenary, to take that decision. Having regard to this question, we cannot fail to invite the PS, taking into account that the rule will be voted on today in the Commission and may, indeed, enjoy the right of the PS to appeal to plenary tomorrow... [[No, no! It's today!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u151	Is it going to be in plenary right now? Then, in that case, what I suggested was postponement, because indeed this rule has not been voted on in the Commission and therefore there is no debate...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u152	He voted and he doesn't even know!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u153	There is, in fact, one argument that is insurmountable here, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the issue of discussion. It seems to us that all political forces are right about the issue of the debate. We all know the content of the proposal, but the issue of the debate around it should have been overcome in a different way.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u154	For a statement of vote, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote that has just taken place in the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic introduces, in fact, a very serious precedent and also shows that whenever there is a rule in this Rules of Procedure that for some reason is not convenient for the absolute majority of the Socialist Party, it is no longer met. And this is in fact a very serious aspect of the functioning of the Assembly of the Republic. It was also clear that the proposal put forward by the Socialist Party is not a replacement proposal, it actually constitutes an amendment and introduces new elements in the context of the debate, in the speciality of the State budget and should not have been admitted in that way. So, Mr President, what is clear here today, with this vote — and I reiterate, of great seriousness — is that, from now on, for the Socialist Party there is no rule that will be fulfilled, because whenever there is one that is out of line with its interests and with its convenience, because it considers that it is not appropriate, it is not to be met. And, Mr President, this should not be the way in which the plenary works. We believe that there are, in fact, very serious aspects of precedents that do not meet what must be the compliance of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u156	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, from the Left Block, has the floor now also for a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u157	Mr President, there were several forms of regulation that have already been exercised throughout the last governments — it was not even during the last Government that it was throughout the various governments — to ensure that this norm or a similar standard could be voted on and duly, legally and legally approved in this budgetary procedure. It was the PS that didn't want to do it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u158	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u159	Why? Firstly, because of the lack of humility to speak to the other parliamentary groups and, secondly, because of the arrogance of those who think they have an absolute majority that everything can, everything can! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u160	So this problem we are discussing here is not a procedural issue, it is not a legal issue, it is not a ruleial issue, it is the arrogance of those who think that, with an absolute majority, everything can be done in this Parliament. On the other hand, you know the PS, you know the whole country at this time, and you know the Bureau, too, that we are not discussing a replacement proposal, is an addition to a subject that has already been discussed earlier and whose content has not been examined by this Plenary, so you have no legitimacy to vote. As soon as the Bureau takes part in this process of arrogance of the Socialist Party, in this process against the Rules of Procedure and against the Law, the Bureau is saying that it lacks the independence which it guaranteed it would have in its taking office as President of the Assembly of the Republic. And if it is important, at all times of democracy — we do not devalue any of them — that independence is even more important when we are faced with an absolute majority. The first year of this absolute majority is a bad warning for what is coming. I conclude by saying that today's precedent is not a minor issue, because, when it is said that the criterion will be the same for all that comes forward, what is being said is that everything will be allowed to the absolute majority for what comes forward and I believe that this is unacceptable for the next four and a half years of this mandate. This point, Mr President, for us, will be very important. We'll keep insisting on him. [[Congratulations from BE, PSD and IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u161	Mr Rodrigo Saraiva, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u162	Mr President, what happened yesterday at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Finance should not have happened and the request that the Socialist Party submitted should not have happened. We are facing a virtually unique moment when all parliamentary groups, in addition to the Socialist Party's parliamentary group, agree and are applauding each other. The votes of the Liberal Initiative, in recent votes, are quite clear evidence of this agreement with all other parliamentary groups, with the exception of the parliamentary group of the absolute majority. In view of what has happened and with the result that there has been, since we are talking about a matter related to local power and public debt, which is not a matter of mere fact, our appeal is to ask the Bureau, Mr President, when we can discuss this proposal. It is because, as much as you look at it, it is a new proposal, it has new content and, if it is to be voted on, to be comfortable to vote on it, because we quickly got the vote script and we will have to vote on it, we want to know whether we vote before what has happened or, in fact, whether we are going to vote in line with the content of the proposal. There are two ways we can vote on this proposal: one, in terms of positioning before what has happened, and another, in terms of positioning before the matter of fact. So we want to know how we are going to vote on this proposal. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u163	With regard to the part of your intervention which constitutes a request, my procedure will always be the same, i.e., in view of the request submitted by the Liberal Initiative, so that the vote of this rule in concrete will be preceded by a period of discussion, with no opposition from any parliamentary group, which I will do: when we arrive at that standard, and before its vote, I will give two minutes to each parliamentary group and to the only representatives of a party to decide on it, and I will wish to do so. We shall then begin the voting process, following the order set out in the respective script. We begin by voting on proposal 1047 - C of the NAP, adding an article 14. o-A — Monthly license. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L.]] We shall vote on proposal 1161 - C of the PSD, adding an article 14. o -A — Amendment to Decree-Law No 109 -A / 2021 of 7 December. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and IL, votes in favour of the PSD, the CH, the BE, the PAN and the Le the abstention of the CFP.]] Let us now vote on proposal 1257 - C of the CFP, adding Article 15. o -A — Valuation of the purchasing power of public administration workers. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and IL, votes in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the Le the abstention of the PSD.]] We shall vote on proposal 1216 - C, submitted by the CH, to add Article 16. o -A— Programme to encourage the establishment of young people in depopulated territories. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the CFP and the L, votes against the CH and the NAP and abstentions to the PSD, the IL and the BE.]] Article 24 is followed. o — Strengthening the fight against corruption, fraud and economic and financial crime of the proposed law. We shall vote on proposal 83 - C, submitted by the CH, adding Article 24 ( 3 ). The proposal of the law. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and the PCP, votes in favour of CH, IL, BE and PANe with abstentions from the PSD and L.]] Article 46 is hereby followed. o — Recruitment of workers in municipalities in a situation of sanitation or rupture, of the bill. Let us begin by voting on proposal 1019 - C, tabled by the PS, amending Article 46 ( 1 ). o [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the CFP, the NAP and the L and the abstains of the CH, the IL and the BE.]] We shall vote on proposal 1141 - C, tabled by the CFP, also amending Article 46 ( 1 ). o [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, in favour of the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the Le Abstentions of the PSD, the CH and the IL.]] Let us now vote on Article 46 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, the votes against BE, IL, CCP, NAP and L were voted in favour of the PS and PSD.]] Article 46 ( 2 ) is hereby amended as follows. The proposal of the law. I ask the parliamentary groups whether we can vote on this number in a block or whether they want to vote on it in points. [[Pause.]] No one objectes that this number can be voted on together, so we will vote on points (a), (b), (c), (d), and (e) of Article 46 ( 2 ) and the body of Article 46 ( 2 ). The proposal of the law. [[Votes against BE, IL, PCP, PAN and L were adopted with votes in favour of PS and PSD and with abstentions from CH, IL, PCP, PAN and L.]] I wonder if anyone is opposed to voting together all the remaining issues of Article 46. the, i.e. paragraphs 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u164	Mr President, unfortunately for the House as a whole, we have different ways of voting for each of the numbers, so we will have to vote successively.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u165	There is no problem, sir. We shall then vote on Article 46 ( 3 ). The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, the votes against BE, IL, CCP, NAP and L were voted in favour of the PS and PSD.]] Let us now vote on Article 46 ( 4 ). The proposal of the law. [[The vote was taken by votes to PS, PSD and L, votes against BE and abstentions to CH, IL, CCP and NAP.]] We shall vote on Article 46 ( 5 ). The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, the votes against BE, IL, CCP, NAP and L were voted in favour of the PS and PSD.]] We shall vote on Article 46 ( 6 ). The proposal of the law. [[The vote was taken by votes to PS, PSD and L, votes against BE and abstentions to CH, IL, CCP and NAP.]] We shall vote on Article 46 ( 7 ). The proposal of the law. [[The vote was taken by votes to the PS and PSD, votes against BE and L, and abstentions against CH, IL, CCP and NAP.]] Article 60 is hereby followed. o — Extraordinary updating of pensions, of the bill. We shall vote on proposal 11 - C, submitted by the CFP, replacing paragraph 2 of that Article.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u166	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u167	Mrs. Member, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u168	Mr President, it is in order to ask a question: had this proposal for replacement been voted on in lawyers, correct? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u169	Madam Member, the proposal is based on the vote script, which has been forwarded by the Committee on Budgets and Finance, so this is what I shall follow. I believe that the CFP does not intend to withdraw its proposal, so we shall vote for it. Let us then vote on proposal 11 - C, tabled by the CFP, replacing Article 60 ( 2 ). The proposal of the law. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and IL, in favour of the CFP, BE, PAN and Le Abstentions of the PSD and CH.]] We now turn to the vote on proposal 1379 - C, tabled by the PSD, to add Article 60. o -A — Update of pensions. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the BE were rejected, votes against the PSD, the IL, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the CH.]] We shall vote on proposal 1294 - C, submitted by the PSD, to add Article 70. o -A— Exceptional exemption from social security contributions on the island of São Jorge. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and the PCP and votes against the PSD, the CH, the IL, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] The gentlemen. Deputies João Azevedo Castro and Francisco César, of the PS, asked for the word to communicate that they will present statements of vote in writing. Guess what?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u170	Exactly, Mr President, and also with Mr Sérgio Ávila.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u171	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to Article 71. o — Amounts of the participation of local authorities in the taxes of the State, of the bill. We shall vote on proposal 1129 - C, submitted by the PS, to add a new paragraph 2 to Article 71. o [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We now turn to Article 77. o — Obligations assumed by municipalities in the process of decentralization of competences, of the bill, beginning with the vote on paragraph 1 (a) of this Article. [[When put to the vote, the votes against the CFP and BE and the abstentions from the PS, CH, IL and L were voted in favour of the PS and the NAP.]] We shall vote on Article 77 ( 1 ( b ). o [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS and the NAP, votes against the CFP, BE and L and abstentions against the PSD, CH and IL.]] Let us now vote on proposal 500 - C, tabled by the CH, amending Article 77 ( 1 ). o [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, PCP, BE, PAN and L were rejected, votes against the CH and the IL.]] We shall vote on Article 77 (1). we may be able to vote together if there is no opposition from any parliamentary group, paragraphs 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6. Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u172	Mr President, this time more lightly, we intend to vote on paragraph 1 with a different vote than on all other numbers and thus we can add the vote from paragraph 2.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u173	So let us first vote on the body of Article 77 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, the votes against the CFP and BE and the abstentions from the PS, CH, IL and L were voted in favour of the PS and the NAP.]] Let us now vote together in Article 77 (2), (3), (4), (5) and (6). o [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the PAN and the L, votes against the CFP and the BE and abstentions to the PSD, the CH and the IL.]] We turn to Article 78. o — Funds available and institutions with late payments in the local subsector, of the proposed law. I wonder if we can vote in bloc paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 of this article...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u174	Mr. President, if I may...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u175	You have the floor, Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u176	Mr President, as a whole you have identified, we intend to vote separately only paragraph 7.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u177	Let us then vote jointly on Article 78 ( 1 ), ( 2 ), ( 3 ), ( 4 ), ( 5 ) and ( 6 ). o [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, the CFP and the NAP and abstentions to the PSD, the CH, the IL, the BE and the L were adopted.]] Let us now vote on Article 78 ( 7 ). o [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS and the NAP, votes against the CFP, BE and L, and abstentions against the PSD, CH and IL.]] Let us now vote on the proposal 1000 - C submitted by the PS to replace Article 78 ( 8 ). o [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CFP, the PAN and the L and with abstentions from the PSD, the CH, the IL and the BE.]] We shall vote on Article 78 ( 8 ). o [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS and the NAP and with abstentions from the PS, CH, IL, CCP, BE and L.]] We now turn to Article 79. o — Reduction of late payments of the bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u178	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u179	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u180	Mr President, I would like to ask a question concerning this last vote : with the approval of the Socialist Party's proposal to replace Article 78 ( 8 ). Article 78 ( 8 ). The proposal for a law is not prejudiced?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u181	I would say that the honourable Member is quite right, according to the correct logic. I have followed the script religiously, but I am always available to replace religion with good logic. I believe that it is a consensus of this House that the vote on a proposal for a replacement submitted by the PS replaces Article 78 ( 8 ). the, prejudices the subsequent vote of that same article number of the bill. Replying to democratic normality, we are going to Article 79. o — Reduction of late payments. I wonder if we can vote on paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4 in a bloc.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u182	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u183	Let us then vote on Article 79 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[The vote was taken by votes to PS, CH and PAN, votes against BE and abstentions to PSD, IL, PCP and L.]] We shall vote on Article 79 (2). o [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the CH, the PAN and the L and the abstentions of the PSD, the IL, the CFP and the BE.]] We shall vote on Article 79 ( 3 ). o [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS, the CH and the PAN, votes against the BE and the L and abstentions from the PSD, the IL and the CFP.]] We shall vote on Article 79 ( 4 ). o [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the CH, the PAN and the L and the abstentions of the PSD, the IL, the CFP and the BE.]] Let us now vote on proposal 320 - C, tabled by the CH, to add paragraph 5 to this article. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, PCP, BE, PAN and L were rejected, votes against the CH and the IL.]] Let's move on to Article 80. o — Payment to concessionaires arising from judicial or arbitral decisions or rescue of concession contracts. We shall vote on Article 80 ( a ). o [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstentions from the PSD and the IL.]] The following is the vote on the proposal 1010 - C, submitted by the PS, amending Article 80 ( 1 ( b ). o [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the CH and the PAN, against the CFP and the BE and IL and L abstentions.]] Mrs. Members, having approved this amendment, would humbly conclude that the vote on Article 80 ( 1 ( b ). that of the bill is damaged, and the experts say that I conclude well. We shall proceed to the vote on Article 80 ( 1 ). o — Payment to concessionaires arising from judicial or arbitral decisions or rescue of concession contracts. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE and the NAP and the abstentions from the PSD, the IL and the L.]] I ask whether we can vote on points (a) and (b) and the body of paragraph 2 of this article, as well as paragraphs 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 together. [[Pause.]] Mrs Paula Santos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u184	Mr President, we wanted to vote Article 80 ( 8 ) separately. o
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u185	All right. Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u186	Mr President, my housework tells me that we can vote three to three, i.e. points (a) and (b) and the body of paragraph 2, then paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 and then paragraphs 6, 7 and 8. Save some work, though.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u187	So, by combining the two claims, let us begin by voting together on points (a) and (b) and on the body of Article 80 ( 2 ). The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD, the IL and the L were adopted.]] The vote on Article 80 ( 3 ), 4 and 5 shall follow. o [[When put to the vote, the vote against the LL and the abstentions of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE and the NAP were adopted.]] Let us now, by combining the demands of Free and CFP, vote on Article 80 ( 6 ) and ( 7 ). The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD, the IL and the L were adopted.]] We can then proceed to the vote on Article 80 ( 8 ). o [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, CH, BE and PAN, votes against the CFP and abstentions from the PSD, IL and L.]] We went on to Article 82. o — Decentralisation Fund and financial transfers under decentralization and delegation of powers. We begin by voting on proposal 1148 - C1, submitted by the CFP, in the part in which Article 82 ( 1 ) ( a ) is amended. o [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CH were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L and abstention from the IL.]] We are now voting on Article 82 ( a ). o [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PAN and the L, votes against the CFP and the BE and abstentions against the PSD, the CH and the IL.]] We then vote on proposal 1148 - C1 submitted by the CFP, in the part in which Article 82 ( 1 ( b ) is amended. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CH were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L and abstention from the IL.]] We now vote on proposal 1386 - C1, submitted by the PS, which amends Article 82 ( 1 ( b ). o [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the CH, the PAN and the L and the abstentions of the PSD, the IL, the CFP and the BE.]] We then follow the good logic of Mrs Paula Santos and we believe that the vote on Article 82 ( b ) is impaired. the, which we just amended. We turn to point ( c ), having to vote on a proposal submitted by the CFP, proposal 1148 - C1, in the part in which this paragraph ( c ) of Article 82 ( 1 ) is amended. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CH were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L and abstention from the IL.]] This means that we can vote on Article 82 ( c ). o [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PAN and the L, votes against the CFP and the BE and abstentions against the PSD, the CH and the IL.]] We refer to proposal 1148 - C1 of the CFP, in the part in which Article 82 ( 1 ( d ) is amended. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CH were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L and abstention from the IL.]] We can therefore vote on Article 82 ( 1 ( d ). o [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PAN and the L, votes against the CFP and the BE and abstentions against the PSD, the CH and the IL.]] The vote is followed by the vote on proposal 1148 - C1, submitted by the CFP, in the part in which it amends the body of Article 82 ( 1 ). o [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CH were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L and abstention from the IL.]] So we can vote on the body of Article 82 (1). The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PAN and the L, votes against the PCP and the BE and abstentions against the PSD, the CH and the IL.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the Map, the Financing Fund for Decentralisation, Article 82 ( 2 ). o [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PAN and the L, votes against the PCP and the BE and abstentions against the PSD, the CH and the IL.]] We shall proceed to the vote on Article 82 ( 2 ). The proposal of the law. I wonder if we can vote on it in conjunction with Article 82 ( 3 ). o [[Pause.]] They tell me that we cannot, so let us first vote on Article 82 (2). o [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PAN and the L, votes against the PCP and the BE and abstentions against the PSD, the CH and the IL.]] We shall proceed to the vote on Article 82 ( 3 ). o [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, IL, PAN and L, votes against the PCP and BE and abstentions against the PSD and CH.]] With the consent of the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now voting together on points (a) and (b) of Article 82 ( 4 ). o [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the PAN and the L, against the PCP and the BE and abstentions from the PSD, the CH and the IL.]] The vote is followed by the vote on proposal 1386 - C2 submitted by the PS, in the part where it adds sub-paragraphs ( i ), ( ii ) and ( iii ) to Article 82 (4) ( c ). The proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u188	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u189	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u190	Mr President, I believe we can vote on all the sub-aligns together.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u191	All right, if no one opposes this wise suggestion from the Left Block, then we will vote for proposal 1386 - C2, submitted by the PS, in the part where it adds the three sub-paragraphs ( i ), ( ii ) and ( iii ) to a Article 82 (4) ( c ). o [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the CH, the PAN and the L and the abstentions of the PSD, the IL, the CFP and the BE.]] I have the indication that Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares also suggests that we vote in the following proposal, submitted by PS, 1386 - C2, the parts in which he adds the body of Article 82 ( c ) and a point ( d ) to Article 82 ( 4 ). The proposal of the law. No one opposes us, so let's vote them. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, the CH, the PAN and the L and abstentions of the PSD, the IL, the CFP and the BE were adopted.]] We shall then vote on the body of Article 82 ( 4 ). The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PAN and the L, votes against the PCP and the BE and abstentions against the PSD, the CH and the IL.]] We shall proceed to the vote on Article 82(5). o [[When put to the vote, the votes against the CFP and BE and the abstentions from the PS, CH, IL and L were voted in favour of the PS and the NAP.]] We now vote on proposal 1148 - C2, from the CFP, in the part in which Article 82 (6) is deleted. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PS and the CH were rejected, votes against the CFP, the BE and the NAP and abstentions against the IL and the L.]] Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the joint vote on points ( a ), ( b ), (c ), (d ) and (e) and on the body of Article 82 ( 7 ). The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the PAN and the L, votes against the CFP and the BE and abstentions to the PSD, the CH and the IL.]] We turn to the vote on proposal 1148 - C1, submitted by the CFP, in the part in which Article 82 ( 8 ) is amended. o [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and the PSD, votes in favour of the CFP, BE and L and abstentions from the CH, IL and the NAP.]] We then vote on Article 82 ( 8 ). o [[When put to the vote, the votes against the CFP and BE and the abstentions from the PS, CH, IL and L were voted in favour of the PS and the NAP.]] We shall vote on proposal 1148 - C3 from the CFP, which replaces Article 82 ( 9 ). o [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PS and the CH were rejected, votes against the CFP, the BE and the NAP and abstentions against the IL and the L.]] We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Article 82 ( 9 ). The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PAN and the L, votes against the PCP and the BE and abstentions against the PSD, the CH and the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u192	Mr President, I propose that the abolition of paragraphs 10 and 11 of proposal 1148 - C2 of the CFP be voted on as a whole.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u193	All right, Mr, and since no one opposes us, we shall then vote together as suggested by the removal of paragraphs 10 and 11 of proposal 1148 - C2, from the CFP. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PS and the CH were rejected, votes against the CFP and the BE and abstentions against the IL, the NAP and the L.]] We now vote on Article 82 ( 10 ) and ( 11 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS and the PAN were adopted against the PCP and BE and abstentions from the PSD, CH, IL and L.]] Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on proposal 1029 - C of the PSD, which shall add paragraphs 12 and 13 to Article 82. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the CCP, the BE and the NAP and the L abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u194	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u195	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u196	Mr President, I needed to correct a point of vote : in proposal 1148 - C2 of the CFP, which sought to eliminate Article 82 ( 6 ). the, the sense of vote of the NAP is against and not in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u197	All right, Mrs. Member, the correction is recorded. Mrs. Members, let us take a look at Article 83. o — Financial aid and technical and financial cooperation. I wonder if anyone has any objection to our voting on this article. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u198	Mr President, by us, paragraphs 1 and 3 could be voted together and then paragraph 2 could be voted on together.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u199	Mrs. Members, the CFP proposes that paragraphs 1 and 3 be voted on in bloc and then paragraph 2. Are there any objections? [[Pause.]] With no objection, we shall then vote together in Article 83 ( 1 ) and ( 3 ). The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, the CH, the BE, the PAN and the L, against the IL and abstentions of the PSD and the CFP were adopted.]] We now vote on points ( a ), ( b ) and ( c ) and the body of Article 83 ( 2 ). o [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the CH, the BE and the PAN, against the PCP and abstentions from the PSD, the IL and the L.]] We turn to Article 84. o — Municipal Emergency Fund. We shall vote on proposal 1025 - C of the PSD, which amends Article 84 ( 1 ). o [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] Mrs. Members, I ask whether we can vote in bloc Article 84 (1), (2) and (3). o [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Free with its sophisticated and complex analysis needs us to split. So let us first vote on Article 84 ( 1 ). o [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE and the NAP, the IL votes against and the abstentions of the PSD and the L.]] The vote on Article 84 ( 2 ) shall follow. The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L, the IL and the abstention from the PSD.]] We voted for Article 84 ( 3 ). o [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE and the NAP, the IL votes against and the abstentions of the PSD and the L.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on Article 86. o — Urgent and unsatisfied expenditure. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and with abstentions from the PSD and the IL.]] We now move on to Article 87. o — Settlement of Polis companies. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, can we vote on the three numbers? [[Pause.]] Since there is no objection, we turn to the vote on Article 87 (1), (2) and (3). the, as a whole. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of PS, PSD, PAN and L and abstentions of CH, IL, PCP and BE were adopted.]] Article 90 is hereby followed. o — Budget forecast of revenue from local authorities resulting from the sale of buildings. Since we can vote together on paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, we will proceed in this way. [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of PS, PSD, CH, PCP, BE, PAN and L were adopted and votes against IL.]] We turn to Article 91. o — Loans from municipalities for housing and urban rehabilitation operations. If there is no objection, we shall vote paragraphs 1 and 2 together. [[The votes against the CH, the IL and the CFP were adopted, with votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the NAP and the L, and the abstention from the PSD.]] We now vote on proposal 1110 - C from the PS, which adds paragraph 3 to Article 91. The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the CH and the L, votes against the PSD, the IL and the NAP and abstentions of the CFP and the BE.]] Mrs. Members, the vote on Rule 92 is followed. o — EIB line PT 2020 - Authorities. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CFP, the PAN and the L, votes against the CH and abstentions of the PSD, the IL and the BE.]] We move forward to Article 93. the, which concerns the transfer of resources from municipalities to the parish, and I ask if we can vote it together with the Map, Transfers, of the article itself. [[Pause.]] With no objection, we shall therefore vote jointly for Article 93. the — Transfer of resources from the municipalities to the parish, and the Map — Transfers, of the same article. [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, the CH, the BE, the PAN and the L, against the IL and abstentions of the PSD and the CFP were adopted.]] We shall then vote on Article 94. o — Deduction of transfers to local authorities. [[The vote was taken by votes to PS, PS, CH and PAN and IL, PCP, BE and L abstentions.]] We have reached Article 95. o — Agreements on the regularization of debts of local authorities, for which an application has been admitted, put forward orally, in order to proceed, first, to a block vote and then to the rest of the matter. We therefore begin by voting on the proposal 501 - C1, tabled by the CH, which amends Article 95 ( 1 ). o [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, PCP, BE, PAN and L were rejected, votes against the CH and the IL.]] The vote is followed by the vote on proposal 1133 - C2 submitted by the CFP, in the part in which it amends the same Article 1. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE and L and abstentions against the CH and the NAP.]] With no objection, we shall vote together in Article 95 ( 1 ) to ( 9 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS and the BE and abstentions of the PSD, CH, IL, CCP, PAN and L were adopted.]] Let us now vote on proposal 501 - C2, tabled by the CH, which deletes paragraph 10 of the same article. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, PCP, BE, PAN and L were rejected, votes against the CH and the IL.]] We then proceed to the vote on proposal 1049 - C1, submitted by the PS, which amends Article 95 ( 10 ). o [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CH, PCP and L and IL, BE and PAN abstentions.]] I would like to ask whether the latter vote would prejudice the vote on the following proposal to 1133 - C2 by the CFP as amended by Article 10 ( 10 ). [[Pause.]] The CFP does not agree, therefore, in doubt — if it is not for itself, it will be 'propositors', if that is what it is said — I think we should vote for this proposal. I am interpreting correctly the will of the honourable Members. PCP Members?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u200	Mr President, we believe that the previous vote does not prejudice this proposal, so we ask that it be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u201	All right, then we will vote on proposal 1133 - C2, tabled by the CFP, in the part in which Article 95 ( 10 ) is amended. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE and L and abstentions against the CH and the NAP.]] The vote on Article 95 ( 10 ). this is detrimental, so we move forward to the vote on proposal 1034 - C, tabled by the PS, amending paragraph 11 of the same article. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CH and BE, votes against IL and abstentions from the CFP, the NAP and the L.]] The vote is followed by the vote on proposal 1133 - C2 submitted by the CFP, in the part in which Article 95 ( 11 ) is amended. o [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE and L and abstentions against the CH and the NAP.]] The approval of the proposed amendment submitted by the PS prejudices the vote on Article 95 ( 11 ). The proposal of the law. We therefore continue to vote on Article 12(12). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, BE and L and with abstentions from PS, CH, IL, PCP and PAN.]] We turn to the vote on proposal 1133 - C2, submitted by the CFP, in the part in which Article 95 ( 13 ) is amended. o [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE and L and abstentions against the CH and the NAP.]] We shall now vote on Article 95 ( 13 ). o [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS and with abstentions from the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] The vote is followed by the vote on proposal 1133 - C1, submitted by the CFP, which adds paragraph 14 to the same article. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE and L and abstentions against the CH and the NAP.]] There is now a discussion period for each parliamentary group to take a decision on the proposed replacement submitted by the PS, which was admitted by the plenary. You have the floor, to speak in this debate, Mrs Susana Amador, available for two minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u202	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : This parliamentary group has tabled a set of proposals for amendments in the field of financial consolidation and municipal indebtedness, proposals which have obviously met the expectations of the Portuguese authorities and, always, in respect of the constitutional principle of the autonomy of local authority and the strengthening of the role of the authorities and their valorization. in this field, Article 95. the proposal for a law establishes the possibility of concluding agreements for the regularization of debts of local authorities and it is also envisaged that, in the context of the conclusion of the regularisation agreements, by the order of government members, it is permitted to exceed the limits of indebtedness provided for in the Local Finance Act. in this context, the proposed replacement now under discussion clarifies the existing legal framework on debt limits, also clarifying that the debt margin, for the purpose of local finances, is increased by 40 %, exclusively for the national financing of co-financed projects, in the non-eligible investment component. In line with this, it is also stipulated that the suspension of the principle of financial balance which has already lasted for two years under the influence of the COVID-19 pandemic remains in force, and taking into account that, in the current year, there is also an influence on the revenue of taxes which are relevant to the clearance of transfers to local authorities. There are doubts in the interpretation of the Municipal Social Fund, and there are also some differences in this proposal clearly set out the interpretation that the Government is restricted to the clearance of the amounts due to the authorities which may exceed what is already provided for in the State budget proposal. These are, therefore, important segments for the clarification of the Budget itself. I would like to say that this is a good proposal for local power. It is a proposal that serves the collective interest rather than the individual interest or the interest of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u203	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u204	What is prevalent is obviously the local and national interest. We will always be absolute, Mr President, in the defence of local power and its autonomy and in the defence of proximity authorities, given that its economic performance speaks for itself. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u205	Mr Duarte Pacheco, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u206	Mr President, we are examining and discussing a new article which has been incorporated in this budgetary procedure in the wake of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic and all procedural rules. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u207	Mr President, this amendment on the agenda is serious and allow me to make this reference: the deadlines, when laid down, are not only 'to see', but for the parliamentary groups to have the opportunity to examine the proposals, to make the appropriate consultations they have to make and to vote in conscience.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u208	That's the debate I wanted!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u209	However, Mr President, with the utmost sincerity, the fact that this proposal has already entered into debate this morning, after the decision of the plenary and the Bureau, did not allow the PSD Parliamentary Group to make the appropriate consultations to understand whether it responds to a legitimate concern of the autarchs. in this sense, our vote will be in accordance.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u210	You have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Carla Castro of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u211	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with this amendment, we have seen an increase in the indebtedness of the municipalities. We already had in this State Budget a proposal from the Socialist Party for the internalization of special enterprises by the municipalities, i.e. for municipalities to be able to acquire social participations from commercial companies where they already had participations. Therefore, in this State budget we have already witnessed an extension of the local business sector and are now witnessing an extension of the indebtedness of municipalities. Let us also not forget the stage in which we are, with the phantom that is being waged in relation to debt interest and the expectation of its increase, debt that will remain for the citizens. We are also making it possible for the government to assume debt in the authorities, having a discretionary power here. We ask the PS and the government: what are the limits for? What are the limits for? So they can be overcome without scrutiny? Oh, my God! Enterprises are internalizing, debt increases! We are discussing this proposal, which goes against the Rules of Procedure, on issues that should deserve careful and detailed reflection because they are important. We therefore vote against this proposal and we warn that we are witnessing in this State budget the profound increase in the area of the central state, local, at an absolute majority and minimal scrutiny. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u212	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u213	Mr President, in this speech I begin once again by drawing attention to the tremendous irresponsibility of the Socialist Party by bringing up a new discussion, with the remodeling of an article which should not be under discussion, which is a gross violation of the Rules of Procedure and an absolute majority compressor roll. But if you want to discuss this rule, let's discuss it! In 2020, 20 municipalities exceeded the total debt value to be settled. I repeat : in 2020. The PS of Fernando Medina left the City Hall of Lisbon with 65% of the debts payable from all over the country. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u214	I repeat : 65% of the country's debts are from the socialist management of the Lisbon Chamber. at the moment we are talking, a news that circulates by all of us realize that there are today 10 municipalities that cannot even hire staff because they have exceeded the limits of indebtedness. And what is the proposal that the Socialist Party brings us? To suspend Article 40 ( 2 ). , what is the budgetary balance? Oh, my God! I know that the Socialist Party and budgetary balance are somewhat antagonistic... [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Risos degli degli degli PS Eurico Brillante Dias and Miguel Cabrita.]] They have even suspended the article on budgetary balance! This rule that they bring today will remain in history as the good example of socialist management: the suspension of an article whose heading is « budgetary balance ». It is a good sign of the majority that comes forward and of the four years that we will have ahead. from the violation of the Rules of Procedure to the violation of the law goes one step, and that is what we are consuming today in this House. [[PS protests.]] The PS is so concerned about increasing the limits of indebtedness, suspending the budgetary balance rules created, precisely, for there to be balance in the management of public accounts and transfers to municipalities, but should be concerned about the more than 250 million euros that municipalities spent during the COVID-19 crisis — money they asked your government to turn their backs. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that there are only two ways of supporting municipalities at a very difficult time: one is to speed up their operationality, to help their efficiency and the dynamism of the economy, which leads to greater tax collection, particularly those of local matrices; another is the socialist route, the left way, which is to end balance, with roofs and debt and to say "do whatever you want, that the Portuguese will be there to pay, as they have always been at the right time". That's what they want, but that's not what we're going to vote for! They will remain, for history, with a norm that ends with budgetary balances. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u215	Mr Paula Santos, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u216	Mr President, in fact the discussion of this proposal contradicts all the rules concerning the functioning of the Assembly of the Republic. However, as I recently mentioned on the issues concerning the content of this proposal, the CFP had already advanced proposals, in this State budget, which the Socialist Party rejected. We can talk about the question of the Municipal Social Fund and the government's commitment to compensate authorities for unforeseen expenditure in the context of combating the epidemic. It was a compromise, but partially fulfilled. In addition, the Government only made EUR 55 million available when much more extensive values are established in this area. We have put forward a proposal, just so that the municipalities and the parish can be compensated on this issue, but the Socialist Party rejected it. As regards budgetary balance issues, we also put forward a proposal, taking into account the circumstances and the situation. Yesterday, the Socialist Party rejected it. With regard to the exception of not being considered for debt purposes loans within the framework of the national participation of projects financed from the Community funds, it is a matter which is already integrated and which does not, indeed, need this proposal. This shows that what happened here is confirmed! — it was an imposition by the absolute majority of the Socialist Party. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u217	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u218	Mr President, the debate we had recently, which quickly proceeded to a very detailed analysis of the Rules of Procedure, began because of an event in the Committee on Budgets and Finance, to which the only representative of the Book does not belong, having therefore not had the opportunity to follow in his genesis. But the consequences she has are in sight and I assume that they are assumed and understood by all. Mr President announced that proposals for replacement by any Member of Parliament, including the only representatives of a party, would be opened and that the Bureau would accept them. The PS Parliamentary Group now has a very great responsibility, because if this is then put to the consideration of the Plenary and the PS Parliamentary Group is going to systematically reject all the proposed replacements, it will mean that no room has been gained for the parliamentary work of anyone. Therefore, it is now up to the PS to exercise its scrutiny and to vote on every proposal for a replacement for merit. Finally — in the remaining 30 seconds — for the merits, I am going to discuss this proposal. We had the National Association of Municipalities here and we know how municipalities were on the front line in response to this crisis. Within the framework of the European Union, we also agree that the European Union's budgetary rules are suspended for the Member States. I believe that it would be incomprehensible that the flexibility we demand in the European context did not exist for municipalities, especially within the framework of them being able to monitor co-financing projects. For this reason, for the Free, it makes no sense to vote against this proposal and to refuse the flexibility that we ourselves call on Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u219	With no further requests for a word, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u220	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u221	Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u222	Mr President, it is only to inform the Bureau that I cannot record my presence.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u223	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Several requests from Mrs have arrived at the Bureau. Members who have not been able to register, so when the votes are finished — only two are left! — we shall proceed with the manual registration of the Members. Members who were unable to sign up electronically for the purpose of voting quorum. We shall then proceed to the vote on proposal 1049 - C2 by the PS Parliamentary Group on the addition of Article 95. o -A — Municipal Social Fund and increase in debt margin. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against the CH, IL and the PCP, and abstentions against the PSD, BE, PAN and L.]] The last vote of today's script is followed, which is that of proposal 894 - C, submitted by BE, of the addition of Article 115. o-L — Intercal increase in national minimum wage. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE, NAP and L and the abstention from the CH.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, having concluded that this is the voting period, we will interrupt the work. First, however, I would like to ask the honourable Members. Members who have not been able to register electronically, in addition to Mr. Diogo Pacheco de Amorim, who signal it to the Bureau. [[Pause.]] The Bureau recorded the presence of the Members. Members Sérgio Sousa Pinto and Pedro Anastácio, of the PS, and Rui Afonso, of the Arrival. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a third item on the agenda and my proposal is that we should now take a break, resumed the sitting at 14 a.m. and 30 minutes. Thank you so much and so much. [[It was 13 hours and 20 minutes.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to resume our work, and we already have a quorum. [[It was 14 hours and 38 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Officials of the authority that reopen the galleries to the public and we then pass on to the examination of the articles of the proposed State budget law chosen for today's session. For an intervention on Article 123. o — Maximum limits for the granting of guarantees, Mr Sérgio Marques, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u224	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to highlight two amendments which are crucial to better public finances health in Madeira. The first objective is to improve the conditions for managing regional public debt, which is intended to be a small but important one, to increase the guarantee ceiling to be granted by the State. The second proposal aims at the regularization of significant values relating to correct tax revenue, which are, of course, to be delivered to the region. It also aims to clarify questions relating to the correct allocation of tax revenue to the region which are, by law, its own revenue. I make the Government of the Republic aware of the relevance of these proposals. It is of national and regional interest that we contribute to healthy regional public finances, for the most part, in a context of great future uncertainty and still very marked by the impact of the pandemic on regional public expenditure. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u225	The next intervention is by Mr Diogo León of the Socialist Party, on Article 135. o — Projection of National Forces Highlighted to the east flank of the Atlantic Alliance.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u226	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Armed Forces, in the sea, on land and in the air, are the guarantor of our sovereignty, the defense of the Republic and the national territory. Much more than that, they are the instrument of a holistic defence, essential in war and fundamental in peace, as promoters of global security, as civil protection agents with unique operational and logistical capabilities for various population support missions and which have proved decisive in combating the pandemic. This budget strengthens investment in national defence and has about 28 million euros compared to 2021. This is even the budget which provides for the national defence the highest budgeted value of the last seven years and, compared to the last budget presented by a right-wing government in this same Chamber — 2015 — presents a reinforcement of more than 200 million euros. There's no comparison possible! On our commitments with the UN ( United Nations ), with the European Union and with NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ), it should be noted that the budget for the United Nations in 2022 is the highest since 2012. It is the way of strengthening the budget that this budget undertakes and that we want to develop throughout the XV legislature. I share only three priorities: the dignity of the military condition of those who serve today in the ranks, because without it we will not continue to increase our effectiveness and we want to recruit and retain the best; the valorization of the former combatants and the disabled of the Armed Forces,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u227	Let us see if we can vote in favour of our proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u228	... because without honoring the past and healing the wounds of ancient campaigns we will never be at peace with our consciences and with the debt that Portugal has toward the generation that sacrificed itself in the overseas;...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u229	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u230	... and the strengthening of investment in means and capacity building, through the revision of the Military Programming Act. We know how to generate the debates necessary for Portuguese society to give fair and adequate attention to the missions committed to our Armed Forces, which exist only to serve Portugal and the national interest. This is the commitment of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u231	To take a decision on the proposal for an addendum to Article 136. -A— Expenditure on national defence, Mr Pedro Pessanha, of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u232	Mr President, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, we have short, poorly paid and poorly-mannered armed forces, but what they want is to ban paratroopers' songs and change the step of the fugitives. My friends, this is totally ridiculous! The important thing is that the Silver Arm factory has closed. Question : How many light weapons ammunition, how many combat cars and what artillery do we have? If, in a war situation, we fail the NSA Supply Network (NATO Support and Procurement Agency ), we shoot at what? We go back to the Middle Ages and shoot with bows and arrows? Oh, my God! My friends, a minimum stock management is very beautiful when ammunition is not needed!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u233	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u234	It is imperative to have 2% of the State budget for the Armed Forces. Three priorities: salary review, operational capacity of our military and urgent replenishment of the stock of ammunition and equipment. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u235	We move on to the discussion of Article 137. o — Extension of the treasury support line for micro and small enterprises. Mr Pedro Coimbra of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u236	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, support for micro and small enterprises has been — not now, but long ago — a priority for the Socialist Party and its governments. We are well aware of the importance these companies have in the economic and social fabric throughout the national territory. In virtually all sectors of activity, micro and small businesses have a very large impact on creating wealth and generating jobs. That is why, in recent years, specific public policies have been developed to support these companies, making them more competitive and resilient. As has happened with other companies, we are also well aware of the impact of the pandemic and the current macroeconomic situation on these micro and small enterprises, and for this reason also the State budget for 2021 has created a line of support for the treasury for those in a situation of business crisis, in accordance with what is legally stipulated. In general, the State budget for 2022 encourages private investment. It is a budget that supports companies, from the largest to the smallest, realizing clearly that the difficult environment we have obviously obligates the specific and concrete answers that they are going to meet. Therefore, Article 137. the, which we have now analyzed and discussed, of the proposed State Budget Act for 2022, is precisely expected to extend until the end of the year of the treasury support line for micro and small enterprises. That is, and in summary, the proposal of the CFP that we have for analysis and discussion is no longer a redundancy in view of what is in this State budget. There is a business support fund and this has been a concern of the Socialist Party and the governments of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u237	We now proceed to the analysis of the proposal submitted by the CFP to add an article 137. -A — Fund to support the treasury of micro and small enterprises. You have the floor to speak to Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u238	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the situation of MPMEs (micro, small and medium-sized enterprises) is indeed worrying. Many have not yet recovered their economic activity following the epidemic and are already experiencing the speculative increases in the production factors resulting from the use of economic groups, about war and sanctions. The government has been ignoring this reality and continues to point out that support has been a success when, in fact, thousands of micro and small enterprises have been excluded and so many others have not yet received the support they have been given. On the other hand, the Government has overturned the line of support for the treasury of micro and small enterprises, approved in the State budget for 2021, making it an additional line of credit similar to all others that already exist in the private bank. Mr Coimbra said in his speech that this is a priority, but the fact is that, looking at the State budget proposal, no measures are envisaged to support micro and small enterprises and the treasury fund, which he referred to in the State budget proposal, is far from providing the necessary support. That is why the CFP is proposing that, contrary to what you said, it is no redundancy, because it introduces elements to ensure support for micro and small enterprises, in particular the support from the treasury point of view for the resumption of their economic activity, by introducing a thoroughly lost component. We also propose the replacement of the intermediate VAT rate (tax on value added) in the restoration, extending it to all goods and services in the sector, thus concluding the process that was initiated with the determining intervention of the CFP and that the PS will continue to delay successively. This, yes, would be another measure that would allow micro and small enterprises in the restoration area to ensure greater support as well. It is urgent to control the prices of fuels and energy, as the CFP proposes, putting an end to the breakdown of MPMEs by the economic groups and the question is what the PS will do. Will you continue to stick your head in the sand, ignore and not adopt the necessary measures or will you, on the other hand, support the CFP proposals? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u239	For an intervention on the proposal for an addendum to Article 137. the -A— eliminates the golden visas, has the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Block of Left.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u240	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we know how to serve the visasgolds and we know who buys them and why: China, Angola, Russia. Autocratic regimes...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u241	All communists!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u242	... where parasitic elites germinate to purchase real estate in Europe in exchange for a residence visa and an opportunity to wash their fortunes. Can the government say that no Russian oligarch, on the official list, has acquired golden visas in Portugal? We don't know, it's a secret and we can just trust the government's word. But we know that when he traveled to Russia, already after the invasion of Crimea, the current President of the Assembly of the Republic, former Foreign Minister, he knew that he was promoting golden visas in Russia and knew who wanted to buy them: Russian oligarchs who, like Chinese and Angolan oligarchs, use gold visas to wash their fortunes. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the visasgolds do not serve any good purpose. They are not good in Lisbon or in Porto or anywhere in this country and therefore we have come to propose its elimination. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u243	To intervene on the addition of Article 139. -A — Renegotiating the amounts and terms of transfers of public funds to the New Bank, the Bureau records the registration of the Members. Mr Hugo Carneiro, PSD, and Inês de Sousa Real, PAN. Mr. Hugo Carneiro, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u244	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, the New Bank has long been « the elephant in the room » — an elephant in a porcelain shop, which only happens because of all the money that the State or the Resolution Fund have been injecting, as is known, into the New Bank. Regardless of being often polled if this money is really due, this happens because there was a ruinous contract, concluded by the Government of the Socialist Party with Lone Star, to sell the Bank. Public money which the Court of Auditors considered to be public expenditure. The State has always paid, regardless of whether it should or not, and that is what we have attended. This is where we arrived and, therefore, the proposal put forward by the NAP makes all the sense and, including, the PSD has been ruling for a long time on the need for renegotiation. It also weighs on all Portuguese the threat of using the backstop clause, amounting to EUR 1600 million, in the adverse scenario of the European Commission. This clause pays premiums to managers, in a context where the Bank has made profits, but in which it continues to ask for money from the Resolution Fund. I believe that it is indeed necessary for the current Minister of Finance to renegotiate this contract. There was no common sense in the former Minister of Finance, who sold the Bank, but we hope that this capacity will be on the side of the new Minister of Finance. We cannot accept that there is no contractual rebalancing, a financial rebalancing of the contract, in view of this threat which weighs on public expenditure and on all Portuguese. Therefore, the PSD will approve the NAP proposal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u245	Mr Inês de Sousa Real has now the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u246	Mr President, the NAP brings this proposal to the State budget, precisely because we cannot forget that, since 2014, through the Resolution Fund, the public record has already spent more than EUR 6 billion on the New Bank. Considering the capital injections, as well as the terms of the contract itself, what we are asking for is the most basic justice and proportionality: that the contract is renegotiated, not only in the amounts to be invested, but also in the terms in which it is invested. There must be transparency throughout this process, which is something that has not happened. Considering that the Court of Auditors has already warned that we will be able to spend up to EUR 10 billion on the New Bank, it seems to us that money, which is Portuguese, should serve to discuss a greater expansion of the IRS steps, or even wage and pension increases, and not to go to the bank again and reach out to the same ones as usual. We hope that the other political forces — with pleasure, we see that the PSD accompanies the NAP — will also accompany us.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u247	To intervene on Article 142. o — National Plan to Combat Racism and Discrimination 2021 - 2025, has the floor of Mrs. Deputy of the Socialist Party Isabel Alves Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u248	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are proud to integrate a majority that has already contributed, throughout the last legislatures, to the recognition of the evidence of a structural and systemic problem, racism, which has since been identified in Article 13. the Constitution, such as sexism or homophobia. Racism is a collective problem that requires collective responses and policies. Combating racism is a challenge, because it occurs daily, in a general way, violating international rights, freedoms and guarantees and commitments. The pandemic intensified the inequalities of stigmatized groups. In 2020, the Commission on Equality and Combating Racial Discrimination received 655 complaints of discriminatory practices, twice the previous year. In recent years, moreover, complaints have not stopped increasing. There is also a greater awareness of equality and of what discrimination can be done. The Plan acts in education, security, justice, health, housing, employment and data collection, and Portugal is a pioneer. We know that racialized people despise more in teaching, take less wages, are less employed, because, although not intentionally, structures have a history, a geography and, at the start, there are a set of choices—that I had, for example, but that most racialized people did not have. There is no equality of opportunity between racialized people and others where they live, the school they attend, the employment they have access to and the perception they experience about themselves. It is frequent, even in fringe political discourse, to associate citizenship with the color of the skin and not to the experience of the country and in the country, so the « goes to your land», as well as the attribute of romanticized nationality Lusa based on chromatic criteria, is hate language that seeks echo on the street,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u249	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u250	... where there is also hatred, of that in which when you see a group of white people you call themselves "group" and when you see a group of black people you say "gang". That is why, and for so much, this plan is essential, because democracy, for so much love of freedom, is the only guarantee of the safety of all. That was so clear in the assault on the Capitol! Discrimination generates insecurity and fear. Portugal must be the sum of all and all, in the ideal of equal opportunities. Portugal must be an open country to whom it seeks refuge or a way of life, and for us it will continue to be. Openness, respect, equality and freedom are even the key to security that interests democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests of CH Deputies.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u251	To intervene on different proposals for the addition of Articles 145. o -A, 145. o-B is 145. o-C has the floor Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u252	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as we know in 2021, the Government did not apply the 50 % discount on toll rates of some road concessions, ex-SCUT ( cost-free to the user ), approved by the Budget Act for 2021. The Government has decided to use a subterfuge to the detriment of users by applying the 2011 discount on a base value. The result of this stratagem is an effective discount of less than 35 %, very different from the provisions of the law. For example, among others, the case of A13, the so-called « Autostrada do Pinhal Interior ». But the impact is not just financial. This is what happens, for example, in the A22, in the Algarve : when it is intended to encourage movement on the Via do Infante, the government is taking traffic to the 125th national road, which, as we all know, is one of the most degraded and dangerous roads in the country and where tens of people die each year. More: the discount scheme provided for electric and non-polluting vehicles has not yet been implemented, based on alleged technical difficulties. With the massive increase in fuel, this failure on the part of the Government is now double penalizing. The PSD does not accept this recurrent situation and intends to restore the House's unequivocal will, of 50 % discount on these motorways, which the government is delaying. Question: After all, how many million have the government saved at the expense of the Portuguese and this legal escape? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u253	To intervene on the proposal for an addendum to Article 147. o -A— Equiparation of the age of access to the reform of firefighters from the framework of associations and firefighters to the regime of firefighters, has the floor Mr Bruno Coimbra of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u254	Mr President, the issue has more to do with fuels than with the age of reform, Mr President. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going through an energy crisis that the Portuguese feel every day. There are critical services in the State that are at risk from the uncontrollable and rising price of fuels. See case : of the transport of patients or the fight against fire, depending on fire; or of the IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity), which provide assistance to the household to patients, bedridden and elderly, essential services which cannot be suspended or interrupted and for which there are no insufficient measures, such as short discounts, which are swallowed by the escalation of prices. What we propose is a more robust instrument, a mechanism of resilience for firefighter associations and IPSS : putting ERSE(Regulatory Energy Services Entity) to set a maximum value and the State to repay the difference to the commercial price, stop volatility and price escalation. If these entities all serve and are within the limits of what they can bear, we must also be all guaranteeing the conditions for them to fulfil their task. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u255	To intervene on the proposal for an addendum to Article 148. o -A — Amendment to Decree-Law No 241 / 2007 of 21 June approving the legal regime applicable to Portuguese firefighters in the mainland has the floor of Mrs Ofélia Ramos, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u256	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask those who do not have in their memory the fateful fire of Pedrogão Grande and the valuable and herculous work of our firemen. Many volunteer firemen are marked for life, for injuries in accidents that suffer in the performance of their mission, and many of them acquire an absolute and permanent incapacity for work. These firefighters, saved by death, but not spared by life, are not entitled to a blood price pension, which is absolutely incomprehensible and intolerable, especially when our law recognizes this right to the holders of sovereignty organs, the presidents of the municipal chambers and still — it is frightened! — the permanent councillors. I wonder if these will be more deserving or worthy of that right than those who put their lives at risk to save the lives of others. As the answer is obvious, it is of the most fundamental justice to extend this right to these valuable firefighters, as well as of the most fundamental justice that the regime of access to the pension for the reform of the firefighters is also applied to firefighters of the humanitarian associations when they perform full-time functions. Only in this way can we give our firefighters the fair recognition that society owes them. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u257	To intervene on the proposal for an addendum to Article 155. the -A— Multi-annual programme for national food sovereignty, has the floor Mr João Dias, of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u258	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if there were any doubts, the Monthly Bulletin of Agriculture and Fisheries of May this year will clarify and confirm the concerns that the CFP has been putting on, for which the Government is dissociating. When comparing the evolution of production areas between the years 2020 and 2022, we found a reduction of more than 11 % of the grain-seeding area, and in the case of potatoes the reduction of the planting area is more than 12 %, 5 %. We're talking, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, food which is the basis of human food, for which we should be inverting the path of external dependence, but on the contrary, we are witnessing the loss of national production, increasing the need for imports. in this sense, the CFP proposes, in this State budget, concrete measures that recover national cereal production, contrary to the cycle of food dependence vis-à-vis the outside. It is also necessary to respond to the worsening costs of production factors. Farmers, farmers and fishermen are living in a critical situation: firstly, with the epidemic, now with drought and sanctions, there are brutal increases in fuel, energy, fertilizers, rations, machinery, which in many cases exceed 300 %. Urgent measures are needed to counter the use being made by increasing the prices of the various production factors, so we have included in this Budget a proposal that allows the public acquisition of production factors, ensuring their public supply and the ability to provide small farmers and livestock producers under less penalizing conditions. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on this path thousands of farmers will be led to ruin, further exacerbating our already weak food sovereignty. It is therefore necessary to increase the production capacity of food that the population needs, by combating the enormous imbalances in the food balance, which requires a multiannual programme for national food sovereignty, as we propose, by creating a specific system of support and incentives for national production. In fishing, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot continue to accept that fishermen have the same working conditions for 50 years. Most vessels are over 30 years old and a multiannual plan is urgently needed to support the renewal of the fishing fleet which improves the safety and working conditions of professionals. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u259	For an intervention on Article 156. o — Strengthening support for family farming, Mr João Miguel Nicolau of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u260	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, the primary sector has been the most affected by the global environment in which we live, marked by the effects of the war, but also by the effects of the drought that devastated the country and also by the effects of the pandemic. Agriculture is, in fact, going through moments of instability and rising prices of production factors, challenges that we are not outside and that we are closely accompanying. The agricultural sector is fundamental in our economy, this if we want to reduce the trade balance deficit and ensure the supply of the agri-food chain and our table. Today, agri-food represents more than 10 % of the country's exports, and it is necessary to continue to invest in modernisation, competitiveness and sustainability in order to continue to grow. For this, the country needs everyone: small, medium and large farmers. If for large farmers professionalization, investment and competitiveness can be a challenge, for small farmers the support of the State is central to viability and growth. It was in a Government of the Socialist Party that the Family Agriculture Statute was approved and that the necessary incentives were made. This budget provides exclusive funding for holders of the Family Agriculture Statute, which is coupled with targeted support provided for in the Strategic Plan of the CAP ( Common Agricultural Policy). But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it will be of no benefit to investment aid if the market does not work fairly, and when the market is unbalanced it is the small agriculture that suffers the most. It is therefore essential to strengthen the position of producer organisations and inter-professional associations, but it is also essential to strengthen the position of producers in the agricultural value chain and to prevent abusive commercial practices, with the strengthening of PARCA ( Platform for Monitoring Relations in the Agri-Food Chain ). Mrs. Members, the widespread increase in costs is a concern, and the Government has put in place support mechanisms, such as the advance of payments or the support for the income of the most affected livestock producers. But it is also important to say that the agricultural sector must continue to grow, as it has seen, becoming more professional, more technological, more competitive and more sustainable every day. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u261	To intervene on the proposal of Article 156. o -A— Green electricity, Mr. Paulo Ramalho has the floor of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u262	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, dear colleagues, in June 2021, this Parliament approved by Law No 37 / 2021 measures to support electricity costs, in particular for farmers and livestock producers. In a very synthetic way, these measures were, at the time, financial support between 10 % and 20 % on the value of the invoice, depending on the size of agricultural holdings and livestock holdings. It happens that this law, which has already been regulated, is still awaiting implementation by the Government to produce, indeed, the effects for which it has been conceived, so far, that farmers and livestock producers have not received any amount of the promised support. We all know of the serious difficulties facing our farmers in the face of the terrible increases in production, fuel and energy factors and the extreme drought that much of our territory is experiencing, as we have seen in the previous interventions. The sustainability of agricultural holdings is at stake, but also our food security and sovereignty. The lives of our farmers and livestock producers are much more difficult in 2022 than in June 2021. Only one year has passed, but production costs are today, incomparably, higher. therefore the PSD Parliamentary Group shall present this proposal in the context of this Budget with a view, above all, to a fair and realistic update and compensation of the values of the support provided for in Act No 37 / 2021, which shall last at least until the end of 2022. I recall that in 2012, in the face of a severe and extreme drought, the Portuguese Government then decided to support the agricultural sector, sharing in energy costs with an equivalent support of 40 % of the invoice. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u263	To speak on the same subject, Mr. Secretary of State for Agriculture, Rui Martinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u264	Mr President, I could mention a number of issues relating to support for agriculture and the current crisis situation, but I would start with the question of green electricity and compliance with the law of the Assembly of the Republic. I can assure you right now that it has been properly regulated. In fact, the law itself provided support for all costs from 1 January, and this will happen. Today it will be signed by the Minister for Finance and by the Minister for Agriculture.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u265	Until the end!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u266	Even today, this matter will be overcome and, I assure you, fully supported under the law the planned support for the costs spent by farmers since 1 January of the current year, as well as the previous law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u267	We moved on to Article 165. o — Operational programmes comprising Portugal 2020, Portugal 2030 and the Mission Structure « Recover Portugal ». Mr Nuno Fazenda of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u268	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ) is a key instrument for the recovery of the country and makes, in fact, part of this State budget. About the PRR there are three key points that it is important to highlight. Firstly, the PRR includes, and has planned, essential support and investments for the country, which are, in fact, reflected in this Budget. I am referring to direct support for companies, as is the case with the innovation agendas, having had a great adherence by companies to the already open competitions; the decarbonisation of industry, with a support of EUR 715 million; the energy efficiency of buildings, being ongoing competitions; public investment and the Business Hospitality Areas, having already been selected applications, and 66 % of the investment is located in the interior; and to health, housing, transport and qualifications, measures on the ground. Second point: the PRR is on the ground. Mrs. Members, 49 % of the overall allocation of the PRR is in open or in concrete competitions. In addition, we have ongoing payments and projects in progress. Third and last point: are we meeting the obligations before the European Commission? The answer is simple. Yes, we are fulfilling our obligations before the European Commission. Recently, the Portuguese State was assessed in the context of its first request for payment. In fact, we were the fifth country to submit this request for payment and the response and evaluation were positive. That is why, by fulfilling the 38 marks, we received the first instalment of EUR 1, EUR 3 billion to develop the country. Obviously, we have to provide the institutions with means to implement these Community funds, so we have a proposal that strengthens and gives more autonomy and strength to the "Retrieve Portugal" Mission Structure for the full implementation of the PRR. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u269	To intervene on Article 168. o — Incentive to research cultural heritage, Mrs Carla Sousa has the floor of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u270	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, for the Socialist Party, the cultural and artistic sector is, as it has always been, a vital sector, not only for the full exercise of democratic citizenship, but also to ensure social cohesion and correction of territorial asymmetries. It is a truly differentiating factor in its diversity and plurality, in the projection and international affirmation of the country. It is nothing less than a strategic national resource, and that is what moves us. of the many things to be done, it is necessary to recognize how much has been done. From 2016 to today, the socialist governments have doubled the budget for culture. If we exclude health, it is the Budget for Culture that has grown in national investment.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u271	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u272	After the difficulties caused by the pandemic, which required extraordinary government measures, there is stability, predictability and continuity in public policies and this Budget responds to these needs. in this Budget there are no losses. No body of the Ministry of Culture sees its registration decrease and considerable gains are presented: a growth of 8, 5 % compared to the consolidated investment of last year, now setting itself at EUR 619 million; a budgetary increase for the culture of 14 % and a strategy and vision of a culturally interconnected country. There are also gains in the construction of territorial networks structured by theatres and cinemas, with a budget of 24 million for their programming; in the increase of 18 % of the funds of the new Support Programme for Arts, providing 81 million euros and ensuring more decentralisation processes; in the reinforcement of 20 % of the budget devoted to contemporary art acquisitions, which, by creating synergies with the Portuguese Network of Contemporary Art, allows the gathering of entities scattered throughout the territory; in the investment in the overall value of EUR 243 million of the PRR aimed at technological modernization and digitization, where the Portuguese Cinemateca and public libraries are valued, in which the built cultural heritage is protected and the material and immaterial heritage is safeguarded; in the necessary consolidation of the Professional Statute of the Artist, which fits and protects artists from the unpredictable dynamics of the sector and which, we must defend, can and should be promoted. This is an ambitious but sustained budget in facts and not promises, in achievements and not intentions; its fulfilment does not exhaust the work that awaits us, but clearly consolidates a more dynamic, more cohesive and more creative country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u273	To intervene on the proposal of Article 168. -A— Programme to promote the Status of Professionals of the Culture Area, has the floor of Mrs. Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u274	Mr President, I will not talk about the little ambition of this Culture Budget, since it has already passed this moment of debate with the Minister of Culture, I will talk about two proposals from the Left Block that try to deal with two scourges in the area of culture, especially with regard to support in the pandemic. And one of these scourges is the substrate of precariousness that exists and the way this substrate called into question the life of so many and so many professionals of culture, when the pandemic almost ended with cultural activity. The Staff Regulations of the Professionals of the Culture Area have been negotiated — little at all, but it has been negotiated — it is approved and now it must be ensured that it is applied. It will be of no use if cultural entities do not use, use or apply the Statute. That is why the programme for the promotion of the Statute provides that the Government can promote it and monitor its application to the various entities that hire cultural professionals. Secondly, I refer to the Guarantee Culture Program, which was presented as a great measure to deal with the pandemic in the cultural area, the area that was most affected. However, of the thousand and few applications, there are 600 that have not yet seen the payment of the second instalment. This means that the Guarantee Culture Programme has not yet met its objectives. We therefore propose to do what the Government announced in the explanatory note to the State budget, i.e. that it would consider extending extraordinary measures to support culture, but then it did not. We're realising! We therefore call on the Government to extend the Guarantee Culture Programme for next year. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u275	To intervene on the proposal of Article 168. o -A — Voucher culture, Mr Alexandre Poço has the floor of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u276	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the PSD Parliamentary Group presents an innovative proposal in this State budget: the creation of a culture voucher for all young people in the year they are 18 years old. We understand that this proposal can only merit the Socialist Party's favourable vote. Otherwise, let's see. Is it the PS against culture? We hear love vows every day. Is it PS against young people? We heard twice as much love vows every day by the Socialist Party, by the Government. Is the PS against young people's access to culture? They're telling us no. So we concluded that, not being against culture, not against young people, not against ensuring more access for young people to culture, the PS can only vote in favour of this proposal. Or will the PS, in this State Budget, be against a voucher? Is it? Oh, my God! We'd be very surprised. On the other hand — and I conclude, Mr President — we believe that there is only one reason for the PS to lead this proposal: to present it in the next State budget, as you did with IRS Young. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u277	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u278	So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in anticipation of the State budget for 2023, it was good for the Socialist Party, if it so far agrees with this proposal, to approve what is being prepared to present tomorrow. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u279	That proposal was already ours before it was yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u280	To intervene on Article 169. o — National Plan for Accommodation in Higher Education, has the floor Mr. Miguel Matos of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u281	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, higher education, such as public school, is the closest thing to the opportunities of the worker's son, the shopkeeper or the doctor to be an engineer, philosopher or anything else you want. Knowledge, freedom of choice of profession, social mobility and, if that were not enough, the attraction and fixation of investment and qualified employment with better wages, is even that promise of higher education, and it has been fulfilled. We have reached the largest number of students ever enrolled in higher education. But higher education has not fulfilled its promise by chance or ever since: this is due much to the policies that make the right to scream « socialist dictatorship! », but they are no longer than the democratization of higher education. The tip has dropped from €1063 to €697, the benefit of the tip has dropped from €151 to less than €70. This is a path that the PS has begun, that will continue in this Parliament and that will continue in this Budget. Therefore, for the second consecutive year, we propose the freezing of the propines. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We propose freezing of propines not only in undergraduates, but also in doctors and masters. And that is a response already to the thousands of students who have come to the door of higher education because they cannot afford the highest tips. In addition, the students of the Technical Higher Institute instituted the "academic mourning" in protest.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u282	ISCTE ( Instituto Universitário de Lisboa )!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u283	But, as we know, there are more access and frequency costs in higher education. So we support students with scholarships. And that is why today, due to the Government of the Socialist Party, there are another 12,000 students with scholarships, an increase of 30% from 2015 onwards. And that's why those who get the school social action on step A don't face today the uncertainty of not having a scholarship, because they have automatic access today. Since the State Budget for 2020, and from year to year, cycle to cycle, the rule is to trust, it is to continue to be a purser, it is to continue to be supported. This is a historical budget at this level. If we haven't been able to limit the master's tips yet, it's finally time to adapt the bags to the tips. So the 10 000 students enrolled in the master's degree will be tripled the support of the scholarship to pay the tips — it will even reach 2750 €! And, yes, if the master's degree is increasingly necessary to access professions, we must ensure equal opportunities in their access. In particular, accommodation continues to be one of the greatest challenges for access to higher education, since it configures, every month, a cost even higher than that of the tip. That is why we increased the accommodation supplement to 219 €, which is as much as the housing price, even reaching 285 € per month. That is why we invest in 15 000 beds in new homes until the end of this legislature — in this budget, EUR 85 million is registered for this — but we do not neglect the 12 000 students who, as stockholders, are displaced from their home and face enormous costs to be able to visit it. We do not allow young people to have to give up their dreams, their freedom, their choices, to study close to home because they cannot afford to study further. That is why there is social action and that is why the PS proposes, in this Budget, a historic and decisive advance... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... to create a mobility supplement that shares the costs of young people with public transportation between their home and college. It is, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, will it cost you? Go! Go! Is everything going to work out? Of course not. But you're moving on? They can believe that it advances and has always been so with the governments of the Socialist Party, also with the strength of the Socialist Youth, who has advanced in the elimination of the economic barriers of access and frequency of higher education. After all, Mr President, this is really a matter of freedom. Freedom of everyone, regardless of their condition, can study, which is the same as saying freedom to dream, to choose what we do. The Portuguese know: the PS is the left it makes, the left it makes the freedom. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u284	To intervene on Article 170. the -A— Elimination of tips, taxes and emoluments in public higher education, has the floor to Mrs Diana Ferreira of the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u285	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, strengthening the response capacity and quality of public services and fulfilling the social functions of the State requires the valorization of public administration workers and public services that respond to needs. In order to fulfil the constitutional right to education at all levels of education, it is essential to ensure pedagogical conditions for the teaching-learning process. From then on, reducing the number of students per class, on a path of pedagogical and effective appreciation of the conditions of study and work of students and teachers, but also strengthening the social action school in its values regarding housing, school material, food, study visits, extending the distribution of milk and fruit to students throughout compulsory schooling, a strengthening of the social action school that has to extend to public higher education. In addition to the elimination, which has to be ensured, of the propines, rates and emoluments proposed by the CFP, knowing well that this is a barrier so often unavailable to tens of thousands of young people who want to study in higher education and to whom this right is denied, the CFP proposes the extension of the criteria of access to school social action, that the minimum master grant corresponds to the value of the benefit effectively paid, in addition to the increase of the housing supplement for students in the pocket. We also propose strengthening funding to extend the public offer of accommodation for displaced students. The precariousness and devaluation of scientific research workers require answers that are not in this budget either. We propose the integration of all research fellows who meet permanent needs in the career of scientific research, but also the updating of the values of research scholarships, even because there are pockets to be earned below the national minimum wage. We propose a strengthening of funding to state laboratories, due to their importance for scientific activity and as an instrument of national sovereignty and considering the shortage of workers and the need to update material resources. But with about 1 million and 300,000 users without a family doctor, here too are needed answers. Considering that many are close to retirement, it is urgent to take measures to recruit and fix family doctors, as the CFP proposes, so that all users have a family doctor, as is their right, besides the necessary strengthening of nurses and clinical secretaries to integrate family health teams and the strengthening of public health teams. It is essential to internalize complementary means of diagnosis and therapy. The Government plans to spend more than EUR 1650 million on external procurement of these services, diverting resources to private groups rather than strengthening the SNS response capacity. The PCP proposes an investment to internalize these services, but also to replace heavy, obsolete medical equipment, and to rehabilitate/build health centers and hospitals. It is also important to ensure, in compliance with the right to health, the freeness of medicines for chronic patients, users over 65 years of age and users with economic impairment. Solutions to strengthen public school, the national scientific and technological system and the SNS, that is what these CFP proposals mean. What matters is which side the PS will be positioned. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u286	To intervene on Article 172. o -A— Advance of decisions on awarding scholarships in higher education, has the floor of Mrs Carla Castro, of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u287	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight our proposal in the area of social action in higher education. As it is now designed, students who apply for the first time to scholarships in higher education do so - at the time of their candidacy and, in practice, in real life, many remain unanswered months and without receiving the scholarship to cope with expenses in the first few months. The financial restriction can make them not even get to university. We believe that this is socially unacceptable. We propose an amendment to this process and we urge all parties to follow us. I am sure that support for students who need the most and the fight for effective opportunities is something that unites us in this House. For the government it is a procedure, it is liquidity; for the students it is a financial impact that can make all the difference in their lives and therefore for the pockets, yes, it is urgent that we approve this. It is intended that at the time of registration students may already be aware of their effective pocket status. Knowing the disincentive that exists today and the deprivations that cause so many students, there is no reason for us to maintain the situation as it is. It is important to change response times, to anticipate the application process for scholarships and to ensure that candidates have advance information on their pocket status. This will help to increase confidence in university entry, for greater financial security, for better entry rates of students who come from economically disadvantaged means and will also contribute to lower dropout. Mrs. Members, strengthening social action is not just a matter of reinforcing the number and value of the scholarships, but also of attributing them in a timely manner. Today we have the opportunity to do something different, different for the lives of each of these people. I believe that we cannot fail them and that is only within our reach. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u288	To intervene on Article 175. o — Provisions relating to the financing of vocational education, Mr Tiago Estêvão Martins, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u289	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the second day of the final phase of the budget debate, but we can now draw a conclusion, which is that, on our right hand, what was the big issue of this budget debate has already fallen to the ground. We have been very careful and what we have seen is that during this debate, during these two days, we have stopped hearing about structural reforms. And we have to say we understand. We understand when we talk about education, health or any other subject, first, because the path we have drawn since 2015 is, of course, very different from what you present and, therefore, obviously, reformist in the face of what you are defending, but also because the path we have drawn with this Budget is precisely the consolidation of what we have done over the past six years: consolidation with continued investment in education; consolidation with continued investment in vocational education; consolidation with continued investment in higher education. In fact, what is structural is not what changes every day but, yes, what is consistent and stable. That's why, sirs. Members, yes, it is structural to increase investment in education, it is structural to increase investment in science, it is structural to reduce the costs of higher education frequency and it is structural to fight school dropout. Mrs. Members, we must be very clear: what is involved with this budget is precisely this, it is the consolidation of a structural vision of the country in which we believe, a country of science, culture and knowledge. I conclude, Mr President, with a conviction that we share, of course, that education and science can always be an area of challenges but require consistency and, above all, stability. And that is the mark of this Budget, a Budget that faces new challenges, but which does so with the consistency of the advanced path in previous budgets, without retreats, because for us, what is structural is really what changes people's lives. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u290	To intervene on Article 175. o -A — Compensation for displaced teachers, has the floor of Mrs. Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u291	Mr. President, Mr. Tiago Estêvão Martins, it is structural the lack of teachers in public school,... [[PS Members' laughs.]] ...and it's so structural that in two or three years half of 7 students. the 12th. the year will not have all teachers to all disciplines to which you are entitled, because education is a right. Now, education can even work without many material conditions, but without teachers it doesn't work. The Government has refused to take structural measures to address this problem, but also the immediate measures it has found have not resulted. There was recently a news that said, about the immediate measure that the government said it would have the impact of returning 5000 teachers to schools, which, of those 5000, only 116 returned. The government refuses to see what is in front of everyone. One of the teachers' problems is that they don't pay for the expenses. They do not earn for transport costs, nor do they earn for housing costs. And often, when they accept an incomplete time, less than 22 hours, they are not even counted 30 days off for social security and then have the right to reform, unemployment benefit, social benefits. These are the immediate measures to avoid feeling the structural problem at least in the coming years. These are the measures presented by the Left Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u292	To intervene on Article 175. o -A — Provisions relating to the financing of higher education have the floor of Mrs Inês Barroso of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u293	Mr President, Mrs Minister and other members of the Government, Mrs and Mrs Ladies and gentlemen, let us continue to talk about structural problems, or rather about the lack of structure of our government in relation to education policies. The underfinancing of public higher education institutions has been a constant in the State budgets of the PS governments. There is legislation, of course, but the failure to comply with it has been maintained and disregard for the institutions located in the interior is repeated. Despite the OECD's recommendations ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) to increase funding by 3 %, for 10 years this update has been kept to a maximum of 2 %, without considering here the financial imbalance either of inflation or the increase in salary expenditure, or the increase in current management costs. In turn, until the report of the Court of Auditors on funding for higher education recommends compliance with the law, stating that the current model does not comply with the law in force because of non-compliance with the formula laid down there and because of the absence of objective criteria of quality and excellence or performance indicators. It's up to us, ladies and gentlemen. Members, do something for education, for public institutions of higher education. What the PSD calls on the Government is that by the end of the year the studies necessary for the reform of the model of financing of public higher education institutions, which complies with the law and considers the increase in funding by 3 %, and that one third of the amount is aimed at strengthening the financing of institutions that are overrun by their interiority, for a real promotion of territorial cohesion and sustainability and institutional transparency. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u294	To intervene on Article 177. o -A— Creating a mutual guarantee fund for the social and solidarity sector, has the floor of Mrs Clara Marques Mendes of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u295	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD once again expresses, with its proposals in this Budget, the recognition of the social and solidarity sector, a sector that has given social responses in collaboration with the State, these increasingly comprehensive social responses and that arrive to people in an effective and rapid manner and with greater affectivity. People arrive in various areas: in health, education, through children, young people and the elderly, and often arrive where the state cannot reach. So these institutions are doing their part. It is essential that the State also do its own, but that is not what we see reflected in this Budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u296	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u297	Since then, in election time, the Government has decided to review the cooperation pact for the social sector and has committed itself to strengthening participations in order to achieve a greater balance in the distribution of costs to users. However, the values currently in question are clearly insufficient and, of course, do not take into account the impact of the real increase in the minimum wage or even inflation, which will cause more expenditure to these institutions. That is why we want to see this justice introduced into the State budget. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u298	In order to intervene on proposal 988 - C, adding an article 177. o-B — Integrated continuous care and palliative care networks have the floor of Mr Pedro Melo Lopes of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u299	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in Portugal, we have two types of health: the health of the pink world of the Socialist Party and the real health of the Portuguese, who, from Bragança to Algarve, know what awaits them when they need a consultation, surgery or complementary diagnostic examination. We have the health makeup of a government without the courage to make decisions and the health of Santarém patients, who wait 802 days for vascular surgery,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u300	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u301	... of Setúbal, who wait 777 days for otorrino, and the Algarve, who, for an ophthalmological surgery that will determine whether they can continue to see or not and who already has more than 1200 registered users, sometimes wait 381 days. The PSD proposes that the Government ensure the performance of medical acts within the maximum guaranteed response times and establish the same for complementary diagnostic examinations. In addition, where the SNS cannot give an effective response in good time, it should extend surgical vouchers to specialist consultations and complementary examinations in order to ensure patient care within clinically acceptable times. When it comes to investment in continuous care and palliative care, the government fails successively: content failure and form failure. Failure in the number of beds, failure in the training of professionals, failure in the financing of the units, jeopardising the availability of 6000 beds, and last April the Union of Mercy weighed to the point of failing to provide this service due to the financial strangulation it was living.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u302	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u303	The PSD proposes the immediate hiring of 400 continuous care beds in order to achieve the target of 10 000 beds in 2022, and also the strengthening of daily participation in order to enable the financial viability of these institutions, which are fundamental to the provision of care to chronic and dependent patients. For the PSD, ensuring the necessary and dignified assistance for patients in suffering and terminal phase is a priority.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u304	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u305	We propose that the Government guarantee this year the increase in the number of beds in 500 units, a better investment in human resources and the provision of household palliative care. The PSD argues that cooperation with the social sector and the private sector should co-exist in SNS where this means improving access, more quality in the provision of care to Portuguese. My friends, health in Portugal, has no partisan color. Health in Portugal has no ideology.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u306	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u307	Citizens' access to health is a duty of the State and must be guaranteed unequivocally, nor should we have to activate all the mechanisms at our disposal. The important thing, at the end of the day, is that the Portuguese are definitely well-treated. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u308	In order to intervene on proposal 993 - C, adding an article 177. o-C — Contractualization with private entities for the provision of health care, Mr Rui Cristina, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u309	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Caras and Dear Members, although Mr. Prime Minister promised that in 2017 all Portuguese would have a family doctor assigned, the reality is that today there are about 1, 3 million SNS users without a family doctor. They are more than 250 000 than when the Socialist Party occupied the Government almost seven years ago, a number worse than in 2015, according to the recent words of the Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u310	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u311	Only in the region of Lisbon and Tejo Valley, 24% of the population do not have a family doctor, which is 17% in the region of Algarve. The fact is that the Socialist Government has failed the Portuguese in fulfilling this promise, but, more seriously, it has also failed in guaranteeing a better and more timely access to health care in the SNS. Even worse is that this government will never be able to assign family doctors to all Portuguese because the Socialist Party continues to have a leftist prejudice, in which a statisticating bureaucracy denies citizens the most basic right of choice. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u312	The PSD has concrete proposals for solving this problem without which universal coverage by the SNS will not be possible. We propose the allocation of user lists to teams of general and family medical doctors, but also the regulation and creation of family health units ( USF ) of model C, as, in fact, socialist rulers have been defending for just over 10 years. Thus, we will ensure access to a physician assistant to all users still without a family doctor assigned. Mr. Secretary of State, the thought can only be one: for each Portuguese, access to a family doctor. It's enough that there are first and second Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u313	In order to intervene on proposals 1001 - C, 1011 - C, 1016 - C, 1023 - C, 1027 - C, 1030 - C and 1038 - C, which add articles 178. o -A to 178. o-G, on the central hospital of the Algarve and other subjects, has the floor Mr Hugo Oliveira of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u314	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, the PSD proposes that the Government undertake to move forward with the construction of several hospital units that are absolutely necessary and very much promised but which, most of them, have not left the project. Otherwise, let's see. The central hospital of the Algarve, indicated as a national priority in 2006 — imagine! — there are no time limits for construction and no model for financing defined. As for the hospital in Sixal, a council where 40 000 people do not have a family doctor—it is impossible! — this work has been included in the State budget since 2017 and so far nothing. As for the central hospital of Alentejo, the work started in October 2021 and runs from caracol. With regard to the Eastern Lisbon hospital, the six units that are part of this hospital are within the limit. The competition for the work started in 2017, and it is not even awarded. Sintra's hospital is always being postponed.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u315	Huh? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u316	With regard to the West Hospital Centre — one more gap and probably another adjourned work — essential equipment to give an effective and supportive response to the population, what does the Government do? Which Pilates, wash their hands and wait for the authorities to make decisions, waiting for a study. But, even there, the improvement of the existing units of the West Hospital Center, Caldas da Rainha, Peniche and Torres Vedras, which define, defining with them also health in the West. Finally, I refer to the motherhood of Coimbra, an election promise by the Prime Minister in 2015 and the current Minister of Health in 2019. In 2021 Mr. Prime Minister said: « From 27 September, pray where it hurts, we can only take three weeks to solve the problem. » Well, we're in 2022 and the problem hasn't been solved. It hurts to get over it! Open... Mr Secretary of State, the PSD proposes that the Government take up, for each of these units, an action plan, with defined values, objectives and deadlines, and that it ultimately respond to this question: when will these promised units be at the service of the Portuguese? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u317	To speak on the same subject, Mr Luís Graça, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u318	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, Mr Hugo Oliveira, the big difference between your bench and mine is that your bench, the last time you were in government, did not launch any new hospital and stopped those in competition. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Member Hugo Patrício Oliveira.]] The big difference between its bench and the Socialist Party bench is that with the Socialist Party in government since 2015 the SNS has more than EUR 3000 million to strengthen the quality of medicine that is practised in Portugal. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is also the time to decide to move forward with the central hospital of Algarve.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u319	Now it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u320	In the last legislative elections, the Socialist Party made this commitment in its national electoral programme and the Prime Minister, after the Portuguese spoke, decided to replicate this objective in the Government Programme. It is a clear sign that this process does not have to go back. It is therefore important to decide now to move forward with the hospital, to carry out the hospital. Since the end of 2019, we have sought to study and evaluate the conditions for realising the public-private partnership(PPP) and building the central hospital of the Algarve, a PPP launched by a Government of the Socialist Party and — imagine! — suspended, stopped by a PSD Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u321	Troica!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u322	It is necessary to know whether, today, these years, this PPP meets the legal and technical conditions so that the central hospital can move forward from the precise point where the PSD stopped the process, i.e. with the negotiation of the final contract with the consortium that won the contest. If not, this is also the time to find another way and move forward a equipment that the Algarve needs and for which he cannot even wait. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The proposal put in place by the PS Parliamentary Group in the proposal for a State Budget Act is that the Government decide until the end of the third quarter of this year. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is something unforgettable: it was with a Government of the Socialist Party, led by António Guterres, who became the Hospital do Barlavanto, in Portimão ;...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u323	What about Socrates? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u324	... it was with a Government of the Socialist Party, by impulse of Minister Mariano Gago, that the course of medicine was created at the University of Algarve ;... [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u325	What about Socrates? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u326	... it was already with this government, by Antonio Costa, that made the course of Medicine School of Medicine, increasing the number of students;... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u327	What about Socrates? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u328	... and it will be this government, the XXIII Government of the Republic, of the PS, that will make the central hospital of the Algarve. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u329	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u330	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u331	Mr President, for an appeal to the Bureau, in order to request that photographs of the construction of the Sintra hospital be distributed, which has been under way since August last year, so that the House has a more accurate knowledge of the statements made by the PSD Member. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u332	Mr President, please make these photographs available to the Bureau so that they can be distributed. To intervene on Article 179. o — Users registered by family doctor have the floor Mr Luís Soares of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u333	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, I believe that this process of appreciation in the specialty allows us to conclude that there is a widespread consensus on the importance of both primary care and the primary care model that was part of the reform of the Socialist Party and that allowed the construction of many family health units.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u334	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u335	from the left to the right, we have proposals that go towards the construction of more family health units, the transition of family health units from model A to model B and the hiring of family doctors. This is the first conclusion: we drew back the idea that it was necessary to wait hours at the door of the health centre to have a consultation, and this is a conquest of the country, but it is also a conquest of the governance of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u336	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u337	Of course it's not all done. It is true that there are still users without a family doctor, but it is also true that today we have more enrolled in the National Health Service than in 2015 because people trust more in the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In 2020 and 2021, as a result of a simplified procurement process, it was possible to hire more than 400 family doctors, it was possible to consult more. In addition, the recovery of care activity was not only done in primary care, it was also done in hospital care, because attention is focused on the citizens. Today, we bring concrete proposals precisely for the placement of more family doctors, especially in more deprived areas: placement of newly-specialized doctors, with a pay supplement; extraordinary contracts with qualified doctors for the profession; and the possibility of hiring foreign doctors. These are commitments that the Socialist Party undertakes: family health teams; the review of the number of users of the lists for family doctors; the construction of 130 new family health units; making all family health units of model A, created or created, pass on to model B in three years. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, also in the same way as the Statute of the National Health Service, we have in this project in particular in primary care one of our main bets. This is the articulation of all health care, in contrast to a view of "supermarket health", which we reject. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, he took the presidency of Vice-President Adam Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u338	Good afternoon to all and to all. I would like to congratulate the Minister and the other members of the Government, the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. You have the floor to submit proposal 79 - C of the CH to add an article 179. The maximum guaranteed response times, Mr Pedro Frazão, of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u339	Mr President-in-Office, Mrs Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, the absolutist majority of the PS will approve this State budget for 2022 and, at the same time, its parliamentary group tries to create in Portuguese civil society the false hope that everything will be the best in the lives of every Portuguese, particularly in the area of health. And that's a lie! The health problems that the Portuguese live, and they know they live, are the result of the six-year governance of the PS with the extreme left, which allowed Antonio Costa to be Prime Minister even without winning elections. In 2015, he sold himself to the extreme left to be able to realize a boy's dream of being like his idols, Mário Soares, António Guterres and José Socrates, those three who managed to put Portugal in bankruptcy, bring the troika or create political-economic swamps. One of the sectors that suffered most with this negotiation with the extreme left was exactly that of health. Today, after seven years, the health sector is failing. Until now, after they have rid themselves of the communists, Stalinists and Trotskyists, this budget has changed in no way. The Socialist Government continues to see enemies in the private and social sectors of health and not valuable partners. It is even strange, since Dr. Lacerda Sales, orthopedicist, who had his clinical practice in Leiria, operated the particular patients, who could, in the private clinic of São Francisco, of the Sanfil Group. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS protests.]] Thus, the arrival presents, in these proposals, the solutions for the poorest to have access to health on an equal footing with those richest who can pay for surgeries in private clinics, where they also operate. Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, say there... [[PS protests.]] Calm down! Take it easy! Tell me, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, how many of you don't use private clinics? Oh, my God! [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Continued PS protests.]] It's true! Tell me, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, when you're sick, how many of you are going to Red Cross Hospital, how did Dr. Mário Soares do? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u340	And then? Oh, my God! Is it against freedom? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u341	How many of you are doing as Dr. António Guterres, who will do their check-ups in private clinics, or as José Socrates, who now, in Brazil, should go to a private luxury clinic? Oh, my God! The "socialist-caviar" are hypocrites! They want luxury hospitals for them and public service for the people! [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS protests, having the deputies beaten with their hands on the tops of the benches and feet on the floor.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u342	Mr President, you certainly have to express yourself freely, but we ask for some restraint and restraint in words. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u343	Mr President-in-Office, I will honour my mandate and the votes of the Portuguese people who voted in me and will not be abrogated in my speech!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u344	You would like to continue, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u345	More than half of the hospitals of the National Health Service are in technical bankruptcy. Only the Central Lisbon University Hospital Centre has more than 232 million euros in equity—denunciation of the Public Finance Council. Dr. Sales said here two weeks ago that it was all right with the ambulances in Portugal. Yeah, I'll give you some news, Mr. Dr. Sales : a serious patient waited 6 hours for an ambulance in the Algarve, a serious patient, with bone exposure and tendinous involvement, in fact, of his specialty. What do you think about this, Secretary of State? Oh, my God! The patient entered Lagos at 9:30 a.m. and at Portimão Hospital told him that there was no orthopaedic service. He went to Faro Hospital and he was told there was no orthopedic service. Neither the INEM (National Institute of Medical Emergency), nor the Red Cross, nor the firefighters had an ambulance available to transport him to the Hospital de Santa Maria, where he only arrived at 18 hours and 15 minutes in the afternoon. Shame! It was 6 hours of waiting and travel, with an exposed fracture, Mr. Secretary of State! All this, no longer to speak at the hospital of Loures and at the hospital of Vila Franca de Xira, which were PPP, and now, without them, have waiting lists, increased complaints, have no anesthetists, make deliveries without epidural, there are postponement of surgeries, etc. The state of health in Portugal has a name, called "professional failure". For our part, we put forward proposals: we want to use the help of the private and social sector to reduce the waiting lists. This government, if it does not want to promote death by euthanasia and to promote, at once, life and care for the lives of Portuguese people, will not say that austerity kills, because indeed euthanasia is a way of killing, with the greatest austerity possible! [[Congrats from the CH.]] It wants a health and budget that are for life, care for human life, for the lives of Portuguese people, and therefore I appeal to all Members who support our proposals, who are to take care of, to alleviate, who are, in fact, for the lives of Portuguese people. [[On your feet, applause from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u346	We now turn to Article 179. o -A— Implementation of Family Health Units Model C...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u347	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u348	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u349	Mr President, I just want to make an observation. The only thing I have to say is that it's regrettable what happened here... [[To what effect?Oh, my God!]] [[To what effect?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u350	But what's the regimental figure, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u351	It is for an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u352	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u353	Mr President, it is regrettable what happened here. The parts are allowed in the parliamentary debate, and all we say, but knock on the benches, as these gentlemen from the Socialist Party's bench beat, to shut up a speaker is regrettable! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Most allow a lot of things, but it is not worth everything, and what you have done is the "good-all"! This is not North Korea or Venezuela! This is Portugal! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u354	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u355	Mr. Eurico Brilliant Days, ask for the floor for what effect? What is the regimental figure?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u356	It is for an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President, on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u357	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u358	Mr President, I am fulfilling it in your role now, the exercise of the presidency of this plenary, and I stress two aspects which we consider important. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group accepts, naturally and democratically, different ideas.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u359	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u360	Accepts the aside and even accepts some falsification of history. [[CH's laughs.]] But there are two aspects I would like to refer to and therefore I will send to the Bureau to distribute the word "hypocrit" to the benches of this Chamber, which means, in a dictionary of current Portuguese. And I must say that, as the parliamentary leader of this bench, I will not admit that the Members elected by the Socialist Party are treated as "hypocrites" in the House of Democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u361	Yeah, yeah, go to the Red Cross Hospital! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u362	Mr President, it must be brief, because your point of view has already been understood or, then, amends the regiment figure. [[No, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u363	Mr President, I would just add that, from the point of view of parliamentary courtesy, it does not seem to me to address a member of the government as « Dr. Sales » meets the minimum requirements of parliamentary practice. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u364	Defend the honor of the government? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u365	The Socialist Party does not accept as appropriate a Member of this House to address another or, in particular, a member of the Government as « Dr. Sales" or « Dr. anything else». That is why I would ask you, in your capacity as President, in the same circumstances, to interrupt the honourable Member too, because we all deserve absolute dignity in the exercise of the mandate given to us by the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u366	That's right! Correct! So what about the beats on the benches? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u367	I reiterate the need and importance of a relationship of courtesy, elegance and mutual respect in the speeches by the honourable Members and the honourable Members. Members, and now also members of the Government. Thus, this episode is overcome and we then resume our debate. In order to submit proposals 589 - C, 601 - C and 603 - C of the IL, amending Articles 179 respectively. -A— Implementation of Family Health Units- Model C, 179. -A— Recovery of care activity, and 179. the -A— Universal Electronic Health Register, has the floor of Mrs. Joana Cordeiro, of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u368	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in this State budget, the Government ignores one of the main problems of the health sector, which is the lack of early access to health care. The Liberal Initiative presented proposals to solve this problem, concrete proposals that, if implemented, will respond to millions of people who do not have the consultation or surgery within the time they need and will give access to the family doctor to 1 million and 300,000 people who do not. Better health for all implies true universal access to health care. Putting the user at the heart of the decision and ensuring all health care of proximity and quality, with freedom of choice, is our political option. Thus, for the recovery of care activity in specialist consultations, it is crucial to extend and facilitate the scope of SIGA SNS (Integrated System of Access Management to the National Health Service), making use of the full capacity installed not only in the SNS, but throughout the health system, being the provider freely chosen by the user. Regarding scheduled surgeries, the SIGIC (Integrated System of Management of Inscriptions for Surgery) has proved to be an important and effective instrument, through the reference of users to other hospitals in the public, private or social sector, when the maximum guaranteed response times are exceeded, but it is important to enhance their use. SIGA SNS and SIGIC are tools that, if improved, can bring greater value added to the fight against waiting lists. To do so properly, it is imperative to act with political courage and, above all, with strategy. That is what the Liberal Initiative presented in its proposals for amendments to the State budget. But we want more. In order to assign a family doctor to all — the aim of which the Government should not have given up — there must be a concrete plan, with measurable objectives, timelines and indicators, under the penalty of not passing a mere project of intentions. The Liberal Initiative, not giving up that everyone can have a family doctor, proposes that, if the State is unable to ensure the registration of users to a family physician in a primary health care unit, users may voluntarily find a doctor in the private or social sectors. But we want more. It takes ambition, reform and strategy to ensure everyone access to health care. in this sense, we also defend the implementation of the USF model C, enabling the provision of more health care timely and in a decentralized logic and of greater proximity to the user. Model C USFs, which have not yet come out of the paper and which we propose to be regulated, are the last step in the primary health care delivery model. They allow for greater organizational and financial autonomy, particularly in the differentiation of the pay model and incentives to health professionals, and therefore are a quick and efficient way to incorporate all installed capacity. But we want more. We want the Government to regulate the Universal Electronic Health Registry and promote its implementation this year. It is essential to ensure that there is universal access to the Electronic Health Registry, regardless of the provision of health care. Thus, all health units to which the user freely chooses to access should have access to his/her information and his/her clinical history. We remember that the data are the property of the users and it is to the users who must give up and revoke access permissions to the data that are theirs. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in a true and robust social state, users' access to health will not, as now, depend on each other's economic power. A future social state will ensure universal health and this goal, which should be of all, from left to right, is achieved only by the implementation of liberal measures such as those we have presented. The SNS has to give more choice and generate less wait, to ensure better health. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u369	Mrs. Members, we now have proposal 932 - C, tabled by BE, to add Article 179. o -A — Measures to ensure a doctor and family team for all users. To submit the proposal by the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u370	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in 2019, in a debate here in plenary, the Prime Minister guarantees that it would be possible to have a coverage of 98% of family doctors, even with the entry of more users to the National Health Service, and it was sufficient that the 400 open vacancies were filled. You know what? Mr. Prime Minister was right! The problem is that the vacancies were not filled: in 2019 there were 93 vacancies to be filled; in 2020 there were 146 vacancies to be filled; in 2021 there were 180 vacancies to be filled. And why? Don't we have doctors? No, we have! The National Health Service forms every year 300 physicians specialists in general and family health. The problem is not the lack of doctors; the problem is the lack of conditions in the National Health Service. It is that doctors who are trained often prefer to go abroad, go to the private, or even work the green receipt, at the time, to the SNS, instead of being a family health team. Why? Because careers are stagnant, because we tell health professionals that, in order to reach the top of the career, they have to work 100 years, and this is not acceptable. The Left Block proposal is not innovative, as there is already a system of incentives, team remuneration and autonomy, the so-called 'USF type B', which works. And it works because there is autonomy; it works because people can develop their own projects; and yes — wage also counts — because there are more profitable incentives. What we want is to end all quotas, so that all family health teams can be constituted in this way, but this must happen without the cabinet veto of the Minister of Finance, as has always happened. But more: primary health care must have means, in particular, complementary means of diagnosis and therapy. And don't come with the PRR if you don't hire technicians to operate the means that are bought. It takes oral health, vision health, mental health and access to nutrition, and that is what the Left Block proposes,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u371	We also propose!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u372	...because, in these areas, our country has indicators that embarrass us and health must be a whole. The proposals of the Left Block are concrete and are to be implemented now; they are not programmed to see if it will be done in a few years. Don't! There are 300 doctors trained every year, right now, and those are the ones we have to fix. There are 1 million and 300,000 users without a family doctor and our proposal is that we do not leave the users at the door of the health centre and we guarantee them, on the contrary, all the health care that our country can and should guarantee the entire population. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u373	For an intervention, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Health, Antonio Sales.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u374	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Frazão, I have already seen that you know a lot about exposed fractures and about times of treatment of exposed fractures, but here in Parliament, my mission is to resolve fractures among the Portuguese people who others want to increase. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are here to unite and not to divide, Mr President, as I have always done throughout my working life. That is why, to all those who continue to insist on the privatization of health as the only possible way to respond to citizens,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u375	It's nothing like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u376	... we will continue to demonstrate that the path is the one that does not give up the National Health Service,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u377	That doesn't answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u378	...is the one who strengthens it, it is the one who modernizes it and it is the one who develops it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And this path, honourable Member, is the path to improvement and progress, which is well taken in this State budget and, indeed, without any ideological prejudice, let me tell you, Mr Commissioner, about the link between public and private, as you know. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yesterday, I had the opportunity to also respond to this Chamber on the area of human resources, to recall some of the goals already achieved and others that we intend to achieve throughout this legislature. In fact, I had the opportunity to tell Mrs Catarina Martins, when we talked about the family doctors, what the plan we all want to achieve, and that we all wanted to achieve, since 2015, only that some stayed on the way and we continued to want to achieve that design. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u379	Really? Oh, my God! Why can't you? Oh, my God! Look at the finance minister's drawer and see why they can't!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u380	Today, in the light of the proposals put forward, I would like to remind you of this government's commitment to infrastructure investment in the National Health Service. This year's fiscal consolidation reflects our commitment to the work needed to achieve the various currently developing investments. I recall only a few of them: the requalification of the building of the Puvoa Hospital Center in Varzim-Vila do Conde ; the Center of Radiotherapy of the Tondela-Viseu Hospital Center ; the requalification of the new Department of Child Health and Women of the Local Health Unit of Guard ; the construction of the new maternal-fetal department of the Hospital and University Centre of Coimbra ; the extension of the Portuguese Institute of Oncology of Lisbon ; the construction of the new building of the hospital of Setúbal ; the new hospitals of Eastern Lisbon, whose deadline for submission of proposals is already in the final phase; the hospital of Seixal, whose procedure is under way;...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u381	What a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u382	... Sintra hospital, already under construction; Alentejo hospital, already under construction; Madeira hospital, already under construction and funded by the Government of the Republic by 50 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[BE's protests.]] Also with regard to the hospital of the Algarve, there is a commitment of all of us, as it is known, following joint meetings between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance, held at the end of last year, and the process is already being instructed, so that the decision can be continued and taken by this Executive, provided that, as is also known by all Mrs. Members, the UTAP ( Technical Unit for Project Monitoring ) validates the maintenance of the project and construction contract, based on information from both ACSS ( Central Health System Administration, I.P. ) , either the Algarve Regional Health Administration ( ARS ), so that there is budgetary behaviour and multi-year programmatic standards are met. With regard to the National Network of Integrated Continued Care, I would like to remind you that, with regard to its enlargement, we are looking at 5500 beds of internment — 1000 up to the end of 2024, and 4500 up to the end of 2025, on an investment of EUR 165 million, 500 seats and 20 day units of autonomy promotion up to the end of 2025, on a total investment of EUR 12 million, 1000 seats and 50 continuous care teams integrated up to the end of 2023, on an investment of EUR 5 million ;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... 1000 places and 50 mental health residences or socio-occupational units, on an investment of EUR 25 million; and 100 places and 10 teams of house support and continuous mental health care, up to the end of 2023, on a total investment of EUR 1 million. So our answers are covered, either at the level of human resources, as I had the opportunity to tell this House yesterday, either at the level of investments for the legislature until 2026. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u383	Mr Rui Cristina of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u384	Mr President, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Health, I have just heard and what is really interesting is that, from five to six years ago, the promises continue to be the same. Promises and more promises! We're going to have the Algarve Central Hospital, we're going to have the Sixal Hospital, but the truth is that people still have no family doctors,... [[PSD applause.]] ... we continue to have more and more people without a family doctor, no hospitals, no conditions, waiting lists continue to increase and the surgical lists will also increase. The truth is that people wait and despair, Mr. Secretary of State! That's the truth! It's time to think about the Portuguese. You have to leave these soundbits, the soundbits that there is more investment in this State budget, because the truth is that people are not helped, people are not priority, and this has to change, if we want to have health for everyone in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u385	To reply, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u386	Mr President, Mr Rui Cristina, probably because of amnesia, you do not remember what you had in your Government Programme in 2011. I promised every Portuguese family doctor! You've probably forgotten, sir! [[That's the one!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u387	In fact, this is a design that has been going on with all governments since 2011, as you well remember, but you certainly know our difficulties well. Mr Deputies, as you know, we are currently in the State Budget seeking solutions to this situation by accelerating the creation of USF, notably from USF type B, moving from USF type A to USF type B, promoting the transition from UCSP (custom health care units) to USF type A and also promoting the retention of family doctors, particularly through career projects, continuing to strengthen the number of these professionals, improving working conditions and revaluing careers and career projects. I remind you that there is a net balance of 734 general and family medical doctors compared to 2015. I would also like to tell you that on 30 April 2022, i.e. one month ago, the coverage was 87, 4 %, responding to 9 million and 189 thousand people with a family doctor and 1 million and 292,000 without a family doctor. This number is explained, as you know, by the increase in the number of new inscriptions—more than 500 000 since 2015, as you know—and by the retirement processes which you certainly know, so, as you also know, either in first-time competition, that we will now have at the end of May / June, or in second-season competition, which will be in November / December, we will have to guard this situation. He also knows that we have a medical demographic process, since the 80s / 90s, and that until the year 2024 / 2025 we will have a very difficult balance, that we will certainly have to compensate and complement through opening vacancies and contests and creating conditions to retain doctors of general and family medicine in health centers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u388	I shall give the floor, for a request for clarification, to Mr Pedro Melo Lopes, but I remember that registrations for requests for clarification must be made until the end of the speech of the speaker. So, exceptionally, I am going to give the floor to the honourable Member, but I remember this regiment. You then have the floor, Mr Pedro Melo Lopes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u389	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Health, I confess that it cost me to hear what happened here, with speeches full of hollow arguments and lead us to motivate the dispute between banks, without that solving the problems of the Portuguese. While we were here discussing, 49 doctors at Braga Hospital made an ultimatum to the Board of Directors because, since this hospital ceased to be a public-private partnership, working conditions deteriorate day after day.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u390	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u391	While we are here discussing, Mr. Secretary of State, 20-year-old nurses earn the same as nurses who enter now; while we are here discussing, nurses continue with replacement contracts and fail to predict what their future is, and they already have more than 30 years of profession. What I mean to say to the Socialist Party is that « forgery of history» is the bankruptcy that the Socialist Party tries to cover up, every time it goes to this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u392	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u393	"Falsification of history" was the moment when the Socialist Party rejected the Portuguese vote to crush power and make a coalition with the extreme left. It is painful, Mr. Secretary of State, to know that we are here with this ideological spread and out there the emergencies continue to be filled. The doctors talk to me and say they can't fill scales, and we, here, can't solve people's problems. This is painful, Mr. Secretary of State! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u394	We also have a request for clarification from Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Health, from Mr. Deputy of the Arrival Pedro Pinto, but I recall once again that the rule is what I have already mentioned. Exceptionally, you have the floor, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u395	Mr President, I will be very quick, until the time of this debate is too long. I'm just going to ask Mr. Secretary of State a question, because the algae need to know. What we realize here is that there's already a lot of meetings and the Algarve hospital is, again, getting to the last place. The question I ask you, in particular, is this: will there be the new central hospital of the Algarve? [[Go! Go!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u396	in this case, let us give the floor to Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Health, Antonio Sales, to answer these two questions. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u397	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in response to Mr Pedro Pinto's question, yes. After the explanation I just gave, the answer is yes. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Pedro Melo Lopes, for more than 35 years, I have served as a matter of urgency, as you know, alongside my colleagues, along with nurses, along with operational assistants, always with enormous respect for all professional classes. I know well the difficulty of an emergency service with great influxes, I have great respect and therefore to all places where I go, I always thank the health professionals, for their enormous sacrifice, for their enormous ability to resist, especially in emergencies, which is perhaps the most difficult services within hospitals. So I have that respect. I would like to tell you, Mr President, that the National Health Service is indeed synonymous with democracy and is a guarantor of a more just, more coherent and progressive society. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is a public service that resists pressures, in particular those pressures which it referred to in the emergency services. It is a very strong service, as it has been shown for a very short time during the pandemic phase. Therefore, I would say that it is a safe value in the lives of our populations and that, therefore, it has also been able to gain the sympathy of these populations and the confidence of Portuguese people, as it has been well demonstrated recently, particularly in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u398	Mr Paulo Mota Pinto has the floor for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u399	Mr. President, a sheet has been distributed to us,... The speaker displayed a sheet with the definition of the word 'hypocrit'. ... which I think has been printed in such a hurry with a definition drawn from the Internet of the word 'hypocrit'. We have seen here recently a sad spectacle of insults, attempts to prevent Members from speaking. In our view, this is not the right way to conduct or carry out the parliamentary debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u400	It's a joke!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u401	It is a pure joke and in Parliament we do not play with the Portuguese. We believe that serious things must be discussed here, we must discuss government proposals, our proposals, and not play around, distributing definitions. This is what we wanted to say and hope for the next time. Members who have sent this sheet to be distributed — and now, too, those who have written here 'distribute themselves' — take the parliamentary debate more seriously. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u402	Mr Eurico Brillante Dias also spoke for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u403	Mr President, it is only to say that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, when it made an appeal to the Bureau, said — and we usually do what we say —... [[CH and IL rice.]] ... that would give a definition of « hypocrisy ». We have tried to do so as quickly as possible, even because I think it is useful for this word to be used properly. Adding only one more aspect: in what happened in this little episode, it was clear that the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party was insulted... [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u404	...and Mr President made a good speech. It is unfortunate that the parliamentary leader of the PSD, who at the time was quiet, spoke only now, when we distributed the definition of "hypocrit". [[Protests from PSD Members.]] He came late. It came too late after the PS bench was insulted. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u405	What a disgrace in the day! What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u406	So we close this episode and move on to Article 180. o — Prescription of medicines, of the proposal for a law. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, he will use the floor, for an intervention, Mr Jorge Botelho. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u407	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretarys, Dear Members, for the intervention we have been hearing here, we see what is the centrality of the State Budget, in health matters and in the issues surrounding the National Health Service. It is only the largest ever budget, with more than 13 billion for the National Health Service. It is over 700 million more than last year, which points out, on the part of the Government, the importance of the State budget, its quality, the people who serve, the Portuguese people who serve, all Portuguese, and not only those who have a health card, but all others who must be treated appropriately, with quality and with adequate answers. of what was heard from the discussion of the previous articles, it was found that there is investment, consultations, answers and concern with the National Health Service. And we all know...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u408	But don't say that in the Algarve!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u409	Mr. Secretary of State has already said there will be a hospital. We also all know that it is not excluded, it has never been excluded, as often seem to believe, collaboration and work between the public service — National Health Service — and individuals. The case of COVID, with the mass testing that is still being done using private laboratories, is for example. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the other day, we also talked here about the surgical check, the dentist and a whole set of services, on which the right-hand bench, in order to pass a sponge on the subject, says that we are forgetting a part of the population.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u410	And it's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u411	Don't! It is a National Health Service for all, with quality, with adequate and reinforced responses, in its various components, that we are talking about. But I also refer to what we are doing with drugs, because in the National Health Service, there are no premium drugs in private and no premium drugs in the public. Don't! The policy of the Ministry of Health which is contained in this State Budget, with a substantial reinforcement in relation to the practice of other years, is that, when there is modernity in the medicine, when there is better therapy, the National Health Service buys. At the COVID it was like this! There were no masks, no vaccines...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u412	And the fans, have they arrived yet?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u413	...and the National Health Service proactively—and ventilators too, there is no problem in saying so—it went to buy where they were. With that, my dear Members, you have defended thousands of people. Many people owe their lives to the National Health Service, to their professionals, to the people who work there. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In terms of therapeutic innovation, the National Health Service does not measure anything with anyone or other services. We're the vanguard, and I'm glad that's it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u414	That's to laugh!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u415	Therefore, the policy of the National Health Service, embodied in this State Budget, is to have the best medicines, according to the choice that is made, obviously, with the price criterion, to give better management to what is added, also valuing a policy of generics and biosimilars, so that the best response can be given to populations. That is what we want, that is what this bench wants, and surely that is also what your benches want: a better National Health Service, for all, universal, with quality and where the professionals who are missing are also in the process of hiring.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u416	If it were true! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u417	It's not worth putting your head in the sand, we're here to solve the problems that persist with the biggest ever health budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u418	We now proceed to the discussion of Amendment No 1009 - C, tabled by BE, of the addition of Article 180. o -A — Measures to combat menstrual poverty. On behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, to present the amendment, Mrs Joana Mortagua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u419	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Left Block today brings a proposal to combat menstrual poverty, starting from the appeal, among other entities, of the European Parliament and a report that says that 1 in 10 girls cannot purchase menstrual hygiene products, which affects women and girls not only from the psychological and social point of view, but also in their participation in school, and is, moreover, a risk to health and a question of dignity. It is for this matter of dignity and protection of women's rights that countries such as Scotland or New Zealand have already moved forward with measures to combat menstrual poverty. It is also an issue which has been debated in its various debates, and today we have had the opportunity to debate in other matters. As we already understand, until the debate we had yesterday, not only here but also publicly, there is no room to fight menstrual poverty with a fiscal solution, because, in fact, VAT at the minimum rate already covers all menstrual hygiene products. From this point of view, the Left Block proposal makes the difference, because it provides for the free distribution of menstrual hygiene products in health centres, schools, higher education institutions, in prisons and socially excluded populations, as well as the promotion, by community and school health care units, of information actions on the menstrual cycle and on the use and variety of menstrual collection products. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u420	We are now debating Article 182. o — Health care charges in the National Health Service. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, Mrs Fatima Correia Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u421	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and Members of the Commission. Members, this proposal of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group aims to continue its participation in the price of thermal treatments, when prescribed in primary health care, participation that was resumed in 2019 in the form of pilot project. This participation is to establish justice, insofar as the thermos have a fundamental role in the prevention and treatment of chronic diseases and also in the action of health promotion and healthier lifestyles, in addition to the already proven beneficial effect of thermalism in the recovery of long and post-COVID symptoms, including fatigue or muscle fatigue, respiratory sequelae, sleep disorders, anxiety or depression. But, in addition to its beneficial effect on health promotion, the termites have a great impact on the territory where they are located. Because these are long-term treatments, between 12 and 21 days, thermalism promotes local development, stimulating restoration, housing, trade, as well as private investment and job creation. thus, the participation of thermal treatments is also a question of territorial cohesion, since most spas are located in the territory of the interior, in the center and north of Portugal. We also want, very soon, to be fulfilled the desired of this pilot project, by carrying out a careful evaluation of the benefits effectively achieved by the thermal treatments and also their impacts on the local economy, so that the policy of prescription and sharing of thermalism is defined in a final and fair manner. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u422	We are now entering the debate on proposal 377 - C, submitted by the CFP, adding an article 182. o -A— Internalization of complementary means of diagnosis and therapy. For the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor to submit the proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u423	Mr President, it is with proposals such as this, that the CFP brings the debate in this State budget, to increase the capacity of the National Health Service for examinations, but also for consultations, surgeries, hiring and fixing the professionals that are necessary, guaranteeing working conditions, that we value the National Health Service and that we provide better health care to users and the population. Proposals that have been defended here to transfer public resources to the private have only as their objective to feed the disease business, feed the groups of the private that profit at the expense of the disease of the users, and that is not the solution. The solution is to strengthen the National Health Service, it is to mobilize public resources so that health centres and hospitals have more capacity. We are not going there with proclamations, we are going there with concrete proposals, with concrete measures, with solutions that actually allow us to increase this capacity for the public service to respond, with quality, to those who have the most and those who have the least.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u424	Look at that!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u425	The solution is not only to feed private groups, as they defend the Reach, the Liberal Initiative, the PSD and also the Socialist Party, which, in this proposal of State Budget, increases these transfers to more acquisitions of goods and services rather than invest in the capacity of the SNS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u426	What about the other six years? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u427	This is our commitment and what is required is indeed an answer to increase this capacity. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u428	In order to intervene on proposal 1250 - C, adding an article 184. o -A — Amendment to Decree-Law No 296 / 2009 of 14 October 2009 has the floor Mr Rui Vilar.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u429	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, the current international situation has demonstrated the fundamental role that the Armed Forces play both at the level of civil protection missions, as occurred during the COVID-19 pandemic, or now with the return of the conventional war to the European continent. This is therefore the ideal context for us to look at our Armed Forces and it was for this reason that the PSD presented, in this State budget, three proposals focused on valuing the military condition. However, on the review of the remuneration table we are referring to, this PSD proposal does not appear in response to the war in Ukraine. The PSD presents this proposal because there is a wage disparity between the Armed Forces and the security forces, especially evident in the early years of the career of squares and sergeants. Our military deserve a career horizon, and this is clear regardless of the political party, so we either bet on valuing people, our military, or we don't bet on it. from the PSD, we will be where we have always been: next to our military and supporting their careers. We therefore also hope that the other parties will be on this side. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u430	We turn to Article 189. o — Transport. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, Mr Rui Lage will use the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u431	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members in recent years in the field of public transport have been taken in a resolute and clear manner, with the reduction of their cost in family budgets, by tariff reductions and by the increase in their supply where it is scarce. This has been done through the PART (Programme of Support for Tax Reduction in Public Transport) and the PROTransP (Programme of Support for Density and Strengthening of the Public Transport Offer), which are maintained in this State Budget, but it must also be said that these two programmes contribute to the transfer and decentralization of competences to the local sphere. I want here to emphasize the extension of metropolitan public transport networks in Lisbon and Porto. in this last city, the Rosa Line goes from wind to stern or, perhaps more appropriately, from wind in the tunnel and, along with the extension of the Yellow Line in Gaia and with the investment in Metrobus on Boavista Avenue, will total an investment of almost 800 million euros and will allow to decongest the one that, in 2021, was the city of the Iberian Peninsula most affected by the car traffic. However, this is not only about the extension of networks, but also about new circulating material and intermodality solutions. For the national territory as a whole, there are investments provided for in the flexible and on-demand transport systems and also in the renewal of the fleet of buses with the use of buses without combustion and therefore also with benefits in terms of noise reduction. In this Budget there is a clear design regarding the electrification of mobility with the incentive to purchase electric cars, which goes from 3000 € to 4000 €, and now with the new power ships of the Transtejo that will enter the service already this year. I just wanted to finish by saying that quality public transport meets the realization of what, more than half a century ago, Henri Lefebvre called the "right to the city", which is a collective right, a right to enjoy and experience the urban environment and territories in a more democratic and equal way. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u432	Mrs. Members, the following is Article 191. o — Programme for the Support of Tariff Reduction in Public Transport. For the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sonia Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u433	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, in the field of public passenger transport, the PART and PROTransP programmes aim to contribute to a wider offer and to lower rates, but the appropriations are scandalously unbalanced. It should be noted that PROTransP is particularly relevant in low-density territories, where there is greater difficulty in structuring an adequate supply of public transport. In the 2022 budget, the PART has an allocation of EUR 138 million and the PROTransP has only EUR 15.5 million, which, divided by the 23 CIM, gives an absolutely insignificant value. The Alentejo, which corresponds to one third of the country's area, where the distances to be travelled are greater, will receive little more than 1 million euros, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. Territorial cohesion is not an indeterminate concept, it is a national design, and that is why the PSD proposes the duplication of money affects PROTransP to EUR 31 million. Let's see if the PS is actually committed to the interior of the country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u434	We are now entering the debate on the proposal 57 - C, submitted by the NAP, to add an article 191. o -A — Amendment to Decree-Law No. 15 / 2022, of 14 January. Mrs Inês Sousa Real from the NAP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u435	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, public transport is undoubtedly an ally in combating climate change, as well as, of course, being an important tool for social and territorial cohesion. It is in this sense that the NAP intends to strengthen, through its proposals, the budget for the financing of public transport from the outset by proposing a sum of EUR 20 million for the PROTransP. However, we want to go further, we want the diversification of transport, particularly through flexible transport, of school transport, but also of the national active mobility plan itself, so we propose the increase of the planned money, which is EUR 400 000, to EUR 1 million, so that we can in fact combine the various modes of transport, including cycling mobility. On the other hand, and because there is a need for greater incentive for the purchase of electric cars, leaving fossil power aside, we also propose that there be greater support for the purchase of 100 % electric buses. This is an intergenerational measure of justice. It is important that we, in fact, leave a planet and a more sustainable country for the next generations, and that begins precisely in mobility.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u436	Mr. Secretary of State for Urban Modernization has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u437	Mr President, on the urban side, I will only modernise mobility, but it is not the whole urban part yet. [[Laughing.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I am pleased to note that, in the context of the debate on this State budget, a number of proposals have emerged associated with the reduction of tariffs or aid for tariff reductions, which are basically only measures aimed at promoting public transport. This is a consensual design today and register, with pleasure, that is already a theme given as acquired. If there were governments that had an expressive and significant intervention in this matter were in fact those of the Socialist Party, beginning in 2016 with the expansion of networks and continuing, from that date on, a continuous investment in this matter. Investment and promotion of public transport are objectively two aspects. On the one hand, we need to create conditions for the available infrastructure and transport to provide an efficient service, hence we are making very expressive investments, which have already been mentioned here, in the metro networks of the metropolitan areas, in the mobility system of the Mondego, in support of the purchase of electric buses and many more could mention. On the other hand, we need to create conditions for easier access, that is, for people to access such transport, having had in 2019 the government prior to the unpublished initiative, which will remain for history, to create the Programme of Support for Tariff Reduction, whose absence no one can ever imagine. It is therefore good that this is on the agenda. In 2019, the emergence of this tariff reduction program was revolutionary. We had search growth in systems between 10 % and 20 %, depending on the system we were talking about, of course we made a good decision. We followed 2020 and 2021, two years atypical, in which, victims of the pandemic we all know, the demand fell abruptly, but the governments of that time did not let transport fall, kept the public supply so that all citizens could use it and, to this end, created exceptional, extraordinary funds for the PART itself which, last year, exceeded the EUR 200 million. Now, 2022 is a new year of transition. Let's hope it's a year of positive transition that leaves us with a good taste in our mouth. The demand is being resumed, we are observing how things are going to happen and this State budget provides, in addition to maintaining what was the classic support of the PART, an extra sum of EUR 6 million to cover any need to support operators'companies to continue to guarantee the transport supply that is necessary. It is an estimate of the most pessimistic scenarios possible. We want to believe that it will not become necessary, but we do not want it to be included in this budget, just to prevent us from having difficulties in the offer that we want to make available to the citizens. The PROTransP, for the first time, sees its word expanded as well. In fact, in 2022, in addition to consolidating the system and providing for the funds that can cover exceptional situations, we hope that all normality can return to the transport area, so that we can finally, in time, and in the coming year, walk towards a different standardization, for an assessment of a financing model that can have greater stability than it has today and that it is not dependent on the annual approval of each State budget, so that some predictability can be created. In any case, we are careful and we are creating conditions in this Budget so that the offer of transport to citizens can be a guarantee and that the resumption of the demand levels that we had in 2019 can happen. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u438	Mrs. Members, the Bureau shall not register entries for requests for clarification to the Secretary of State. Therefore, we enter the debate on the proposal 572 - C1, submitted by the CFP, which is an addition to Article 191. o -A, with regard to the financing of the programme to support tariff reduction and contribution of public public transport service. You will use the floor by the PCP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u439	Mr President, in this budget, the CFP proposes to extend the money to increase the supply of public transport, either from the PART, or from the PROTransP. The funds contained in the budget proposal fall short of what is needed. When we talk about extending the offer of public transport, we talk all over the national territory. We know that there are regions in the country in which it is very insufficient and that it does not allow to ensure mobility, nor to respond to the needs of the populations. We also propose extending free for young people up to the age of 18, students, and for people over 65. There are conditions for progress and progress in this direction. We also put forward a concrete proposal so that the financing of this programme will no longer be subject to the State budget and will have a model of financing itself. The question is: what is the government's option? There are conditions to move forward, there are conditions to consolidate and progress towards not only the provision of more public transport but also the guarantee of the right to mobility. The question I wanted to leave was exactly this: what is the Socialist Party's choice? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u440	The honourable Member asked a question to which the Government will answer through the Secretary of State for Urban Mobility. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u441	Mr President, Mrs Paula Santos, as I have just said, we are in a phase of transition from a pandemic period, which has distorted our models and mobility patterns, for a new phase, which we hope will be, in fact, a resumption of normality. We have been careful, we have not only been financing the tariff reduction, but also greatly increasing the capacity of the transport authorities, particularly in the lowest density media. We are in close cooperation with all the authorities in these regions, but these things do not happen overnight. Therefore, the support we have created, either at PROTransP level or at the level of the Fund for the Public Transport Service, for the training of these transport authorities in the low-density regions is the way we must then be able to study and evaluate a financing model that is as stable as possible. We agree that we should look for this model, but we believe that we are still at a stage of training and creating conditions for this process to evolve. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u442	We will enter Article 191. o -A, with the appreciation of the proposal 780 - C, and others, and in particular with regard to the temporary reduction of the toll rate on motorway A-22 / Via do Infante de Sagres. Mr Filipe Melo has the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u443	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, it is known that wages do not accompany inflation. It is also known that the tolls are always increasing. And it is also known that this socialist government, in 2015, promised to end, for example, with the tolls on the Way of the Child, but then came to give the saying for not saying, saying that it would reduce it to 50 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u444	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u445	It happens that as of today, we are still 30%. I'd like to ask the ladies. Members of the Government if this is the right account that you are defending. [[It's the word!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u446	I would like to ask the Socialist Group what the vote on these proposals is going to be. I wonder if you will continue to lie to the Portuguese—and you can send here a sheet saying "false"! — if you are going to maintain the position that you had this morning of an absolute majority of absolute power and can also register, of absolute arrogance. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u447	Now we turn to Article 192. o -A. We have proposal 790 - C, and others, concerning the gradual elimination of all imports of gas from the Russian Federation. You have the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative, Mr Bernardo Blanco.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u448	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, here I am putting forward three liberal proposals in the field of energy — and I am taking advantage of them to congratulate the Secretary of State too — which I think, given its relevance, the PS will have to approve. The first, very quickly, as Mr President said, concerns the gradual and timetabled elimination of imports of Russian gas. We cannot continue to see Russian gas ships arriving at Sines, we cannot continue, as a democracy, financing the Russian war machine. We have already had two ministers, either the Minister for Foreign Affairs or the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action, saying that if Portugal wanted to stop imports, it would not have a great impact, that we have alternative sources of energy. If that is the case, then this is the case: these imports are now being stopped. That's what we're proposing here. The measure has a low, or zero cost, and a great political impact, which can place Portugal on European leadership on this issue. The second concerns the Vale Efficiency Programme, with which we agree. Because of energy poverty, many people need support and it is obviously necessary that they have it to buy both materials for insulation and for heating. However, the programme has been, forgive me, a real flop, far from the objectives, largely due to the bureaucracy required — the challenge of finding the regulation of the programme. Tens of documents are requested from both consumers and suppliers, so it is obvious that it is not working. Our proposal is to simplify, and soon within the scope, in other words, those who can apply. At present, they need to have their own housing in order to be able to apply for this programme, which makes no sense, because these people are often in energy poverty, because they do not have the means, therefore, certainly they should not have the means to have a house either. They are often in lease situations and, therefore, what is proposed is simple, an easy extension of the program to people who are in other situations, such as lease situations. The third proposal, ending, concerns the applications for this programme and the information about it, which is often obtained online. However, and because the problem of energy poverty is more pronounced inside, where people often do not have access to that information, what is proposed is an extension, an automatic allocation of the thermal valleys and gas bottles for heating these people, because those who really need social support cannot see these support limited simply by state bureaucracy. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u449	We will now move on to proposal 1018 - C, tabled by the PSD, on the issue of energy, to add an article 195. o -A, which concerns a more sustainable neighbourhood support programme. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party, Mr António Prôa will speak, but Mr Rui Tavares asks for the floor but is not registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u450	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u451	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u452	Mr President, with regard to Article 194. I signed up yesterday to present a proposal on the Environmental Fund and should therefore intervene before we move on to Article 195. o
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u453	Go talk to program 3C!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u454	Yes, Article 194. it comes before 195. or... [[Laughing.]] on this occasion, apologizing to Mr António Prôa, Mr Rui Tavares.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u455	Mr. President, Dear Members of the Government, Dear and Dear colleagues, colleague Antonio Prôa, next I heard-CL-I will like it. Last January, while we were campaigning, people died in Portugal trying to warm up their homes in the Metropolitan Area of Porto, in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, in the interior of the country. It is a problem we have, that other European countries have already taken greater steps to resolve and on which we can also take steps to resolve. at this moment, it is also a problem that has acquired a new dimension: besides a problem of comfort and dignity in our homes...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u456	Just a moment, sir. The situation is a little troubled, because, however, just look at it, I do not know if to compensate for the delay, the system does not cut off the time of its intervention. [[Laughing.]] We call on the technical services to support us, with the necessary diligence, to put the time system to work.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u457	Since you're not spending your time with Mr. António Proa...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u458	No, sir, it's just being favored. V. Ex.a. is being favored and no one will take the bonus from you, Mr. Deputies. [[Pause.]] They inform the Bureau that the system is already operational, so they want to resume their intervention, Mr. If you want to start from the beginning, there's no problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u459	Thank you very much, Mr President. I continue from where I was in my intervention. The problem of energy poverty and thermal discomfort in our homes now has another dimension since 24 February. It is just as necessary to politically isolate Vladimir Putin, in the context of the war in Europe and the lack of energy prices that this war has caused, as it is necessary to thermally isolate our buildings. at this moment, each solar panel, each heat pump corresponds not only to home comfort, but also to energy sovereignty in Portugal and Europe. So, yes, although some colleagues have already decorated the name of program 3C — Home, Comfort, Climate, but this is also called fulfilling the Constitution, because a housing in good conditions of dignity and comfort is also there. As we have discussed recently, the existing programmes now fall short of additional bureaucracy and, in the case of less-income categories, do not give all the reimbursement needed to do the renovation works at home. That is why the Free Office proposes that, for the lowest-income categories, this 3C programme may go up to 100% of the reimbursement and, in the case of service buildings, up to €200,000 of reimbursement and that efforts be made to ensure that, with the implementation of the e-balcony, the application process can be undermined. So on the one hand, we will achieve more comfort and dignity in our homes, more security and, on the other, lower energy bill, help save the planet, contributing to the fight against climate change, and conquer European energy sovereignty. These problems do not all have the same origin, but it is rare that with one measure we can achieve so many of the objectives we pursue. I therefore call on all parliamentary groups to vote in favour of this proposal and I also hope for the Government's opinion on this programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u460	Mr Rui Tavares, we thank and apologize for the tributary here. I believe that we can now move forward to proposal 1018 - C, submitted by the PSD, to add an article 195. o -A on a more sustainable neighbourhood support programme. For the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr António Prôa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u461	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to call here on the reflection of this House and the Government on the effectiveness and priority of investment in energy efficiency of buildings which, on the one hand, compete to combat climate change and, on the other, to reduce the energy poverty that affects the most fragile. This PSD proposal includes State support for systematic interventions in social neighbourhoods. And why? Because current support for energy efficiency in housing is only available for individual applications. This spraying hinders access to those with lower socio-economic conditions and does not promote the effectiveness of this instrument. The PSD proposal, which enables collective applications, including social neighbourhoods, has two gains: making systematic interventions, achieving efficiency and improving results and, on the other hand, favouring people with greater difficulties, combating energy poverty. The challenge that the PSD leaves to this House, as well as to the government, is that by enabling this expansion of energy efficiency support, they will enable more efficient and, very important, financial resources management to prioritize those who need to get out of poverty. The question is whether they want to do the same or whether they want to do better. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u462	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State for Environment and Energy, João Galamba.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u463	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your speeches. I would begin by replying to Mr Bernardo Blanco's Liberal Initiative on the issue of Russia's gas: we can say a lot about his proposal; a public intervention in the market must be a lot and have a lot of merit, but it is certainly not a liberal proposal, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u464	With dictators, don't negotiate!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u465	I repeat, it is not a liberal proposal and, above all, it is not the Portuguese state that imports gas, but private companies. On this matter, the Portuguese Government says what it has always said: in the same way that Russia has not divided us before, does not divide us now and will not divide us in the future. All initiatives taken by Portugal in this area will therefore always be taken in the European context. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, there is no competition for virtues here and Portugal would not be well in anticipation of others, showing itself very virtuous, just because we can. That is why, Mr President, when we fully agree with the principles underlying the proposal we make, we understand that our role is to work together with our European partners and not to anticipate ourselves to other European partners just because we can do more easily than they do. We did not feel well and it is not solidarity — Mr President, in fact, he used the word competition or race and said that we could go faster. However, this is not about competition, but about acting in concert with our partners. That is what we have done and that is what we will continue to do. On the issue of the Vale Efficiency, Mr, the problems of implementation in the policy of the Vale Efficiency have nothing to do with state bureaucracies, and I tell you why. Because the Most Sustainable Building Support Programme has the same rules and has very high levels of implementation. In other words, if something shared by these two measures has different results, it is certainly not in an alleged excessive bureaucracy, which you pointed out, which is the problem. The Government recognizes that there is a problem and I will try to explain what it is, Mr President. The failure of the Efficient Valley is due to the success of the Most Sustainable Building Support Programme. It's as simple as this! And for a very simple reason, because the Efficient Valley only has interventions of 1500 € and the Most Sustainable Building Support Program has interventions of much greater value. However, given the enormous volume of requests, the private sector has not been able to respond to both and has given priority to the more sustainable Building Support Programme, only because the amount of interventions is higher.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u466	They're redundant!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u467	What are we doing about this? We are making protocols with the large distribution, because it seems to us a way that would allow us to increase the response capacity, which today is strangled. So we are doing this and we are also, in conjunction with the parish councils, trying to improve the communication of these Efficient Valleys, precisely because the generality of the population to which they are intended has more difficulties. In short, we are making these two ways: to improve the communication and dissemination of this Programme and to try to create partnerships with the large distribution, because it seems to us to be an easier way to solve the bottleneck problems that exist today and which, Mr President, are even real. On the question of the gas supply, we do not believe that there is any problem of bureaucracy. It seems to me that the State has to be demanding in this kind of measure and has to verify a set of information, but we do not think there is any problem in this matter. Anyone who wants to raise support for the gas shop can do so in the CTT ( Correios de Portugal ). I must say that we have recently extended this support not only to people who actually have the social tariff, but also to all people who, without social tariffs, are eligible for it. We have no information at this time that this support has excessive bureaucracy and needs to be reviewed. On the contrary, it seems to us that there are minimum conditions of rigour in the allocation of such support. On Mr António Prôa's proposal, I would like to say that we fully agree with it. However, we find it redundant. Why, sir? Because, in relation to the question of condominiums, in the part of the Most Sustainable Building Support Programme, we will have a specific notice for condominiums that will allow the collective candidacy. In addition, we must not forget that energy efficiency policy does not run out of EUR 610 million for buildings. Also in the area of housing — there is no longer any notice of the responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment, but of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Housing, obviously with close linkage between the two government areas — and in relation to the large part of the issues raised here, in particular about social neighbourhoods and cooperatives, it is possible, at the level of these notices of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Housing, to achieve exactly the objectives it intends. For this reason, and fully agreeing with the proposal, which we think points in the right direction, we believe that it is already covered in the area under direct protection of the Ministry of the Environment, either in the area under the protection of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Housing. That is why, if it were approved, there would be a duplication which seems to us, I would like to stress again, agreeing once again with what is proposed by the honourable Member, which is unnecessary. With regard to the proposal put forward by Mr Rui Tavares, package 3C — House, Comfort and Climate, we agree with the proposal, which obviously has implementation challenges that we will work together. of the information I have, the Socialist Party supports the proposal of the Free Party and we want to say that the Government also supports it. Again, I stress that it has challenges that need to be worked, but points in the right direction and is fully aligned with the objectives of the Government. It seems also relevant to us to say that it was not only from 24 February this year that the issue of energy efficiency has gained an added update. at this moment, energy policy is what has always been, with the increase of being also a security policy. So you're absolutely right, Mr. Deputies. I would add another point: the recent communication from REPowerEU, which has obligations with regard to the reprogramming of the PRR, in particular as regards money in the area of energy, states that they will need to be strengthened and therefore, according to REPowerEU, will be-CL- the obviously. In the original PRR, energy efficiency was already one of the priorities and will be -it will certainly be through the strengthening of funds that we will have, following this reprogramming. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u468	The Bureau shall not make any request for clarification to the Secretary of State. Therefore, we turn to Article 196. o -A and proposal 47 - C on the establishment of an action plan for free rivers. For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u469	Mr President, Portugal and the European Union have very concrete objectives from the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and also from the European strategy for removing obsolete dams from rivers, with the ambition of 25 000 km of free rivers. In Portugal there are at least 7000 identified barriers. However, in the specific case of our country, and given that there is no functional content, we must only point out that, last year, a single barrier was removed on the shore of the Vascão. We thus have a very concrete objective to achieve. With this proposal, the NAP intends to accelerate this process so that we can not only allow the species to continue to climb the river, but not thereby jeopardise its reproduction, but also not prevent the passage of sediments to the sea. This year we will receive the Conference of the Oceans—it is all interconnected from a water point of view—which is of the greatest relevance so that we can recover our ecosystems and also rivers, so we hope that the other political forces will accompany us.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u470	We turn to Article 199. the, concerning the incentive to electric mobility. Mr Raquel Ferreira will speak for an intervention by the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u471	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party aims to bet on the continuity of policies that make sustainable mobility options more competitive and contribute to decarbonization. The measures and incentives of the Government in the previous legislation in relation to electric vehicles are to be stressed, the sale of which fired in 2021. Now this government intends to continue with the aim of facilitating the transition to electric mobility, maintaining support for the purchase of vehicles, strengthening and expanding the public fast charging network, as well as improving the integration of new concepts of electric mobility with urban distribution and logistics. The State Budget Bill prioritizes the continuation of the Programme of Support for Electric Mobility in Public Administration, encouraging the introduction of 200 electric vehicles exclusively for public administration bodies, including the premises, taking into account the programme approved by the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 54 / 2015 of 28 July. This bill provides that this support should favour low-density territories. The Government also continues with the forms of active mobility, such as the use of bicycles, seeking to continue the implementation of the National Strategy for Cycling Active Mobility 2020 - 2030 and to start the National Strategy for Pedonal Active Mobility, with the aim of transforming Portugal into a world destination for pedestrian and cycling routes. This State budget provides, within the framework of the implementation of the National Strategy for Cycling Active Mobility 2020 - 2030, a considerable amount for the implementation of the 51 measures that make up that Strategy. This State budget for 2022 is thus focused on the well-being and quality of life of all citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u472	For an intervention, I am very pleased to give the floor to the Secretary of State for Regional Development, Isabel Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u473	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, returning to the proposal for an addendum to Article 175. o -A, I would like to share with you some relevant information, since the funding of higher education institutions goes far beyond the form of funding. Within Portugal 2020 more than EUR 2 billion has already been made available throughout the country by higher education institutions. I speak of research projects, technological infrastructures, scientific infrastructures, knowledge transfer actions and doctoral programs. And because the Government fully agrees that the institutions of higher education in the interior have a relevant and crucial role in territorial cohesion, that is why for the first time it has conducted several support policies for the institutions of higher education in the interior, including through support for research and technological development projects, in co-promoting with companies, with EUR 231 million. I also refer to support for the hiring of highly qualified human resources in these higher education institutions, with EUR 58 million; or the Higher + Programme, which supports higher education grants for students who go to these institutions inside, with EUR 32 million. I am also referring to courses for technological specialization of vocational education in the polytechnics, with the support of EUR 34 million, which are extremely relevant for the role of capillary and network that allows these polytechnic institutes to create in the territory and, above all, for the work of partnership with companies, which allow the training and qualification of students more and more to be adapted to the territorial context and to the specificities of each territory of the interior. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u474	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the speeches have come to an end, and I give the floor to Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha, Secretary of the Bureau, to provide information to the plenary and the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u475	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm just going to realize that you guys are. Members of the PS Francisco Rocha, Rosário Gambôa, Filipe Neto Brandão, Jorge Seguro Sanches and PSD Member Francisco Pimentel accompanied the work by video conference, because they were in prophylactic isolation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-24.u476	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is still information on tomorrow's agenda, 25 May. Thus, our work will begin at 10 a.m. and point 1 of the agenda consists of the discussion of the rules avoked by the plenary—and, like the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, the times are the same as those which have been allocated today. Point 2 refers to the vote on the rules avocados and point 3 shall contain the continuation of the discussion in the speciality of the Proposal for a Law No 4 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2022. In particular, the articles between 201 shall be considered. it's 239. The proposal of the law. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government. See you tomorrow. The plenary session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 27 minutes.]]
