ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late for everyone. Let's start our session. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who do the favor of opening the galleries to the public. Today we have a very extensive and demanding agenda, so I would ask everyone to comply fully with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, particularly on speaking time. First of all, for the reading of an opinion, which will then be voted on, I give the floor to Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u2	Mr President, very late for everyone. I'm reading the opinion of 14. the Commission: « The resignation of Mrs Maria Elisabete of Silva Duarte Matos fulfils the legal requirements, assuming the mandate of Irene Manuela Ferreira of the Costa, with effect from September 22, 2022, including by passing Mr Gilberto António Sousa of the Angels to exercise the mandate as a definitive effect on the list of the same electoral circle. The suspension of Mrs Barbara Andreia Gonçalves Dias meets the legal requirements, being replaced by Eunice Maria Candido Pratas, with effect from September 25, 2022, including, and for a period of six months, i.e. until March 25, 2023. The suspension of Mr Gustavo de Sousa Duarte meets the legal requirements, being replaced by João José Pina Plata, with effect from 1 October 2022, including for a period of six months, i.e. until 1 April 2023. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u3	We shall then proceed to the vote on this opinion by the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] For the reading of the dossier, I call again Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u4	Mr President, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, several legislative initiatives. First of all, I refer to Bill No 34 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), which falls to 6. the Commission, and the Motion for a Resolution No 4 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), which drops to 2. the Commission. The Drafts of Law No. 291 / XV / 1 also entered the Bureau. a ( BE ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 301 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 302 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 310 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission, 311, 312 and 313 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which fall to 10. the Commission, 314 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 316 / XV / 1. a ( CH) and 317 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which fall to 10. the Commission, 321 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which drops to 8. the Commission, and 323 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 10. the Commission. Resolution Projects Nos 235 / XV / 1 have also been added to the Table. a ( CH), 236 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), 237 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 238 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 239 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 242 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 12. the Commission, and 243 / XV / 1. a ( PAR). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u5	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. We will then come to the first item on our agenda, which is the urgent debate required by the Parliamentary Group of Arrival on the location and construction of the new airport in Lisbon. To open the debate, Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government — those who are and those who are not — Mr President. Members: The debate we are having here today has an easily understandable reason, that of the Prime Minister has decided to hide the debate about the new airport between walls and forget that it only responds to an entity in Portugal, which is called the Portuguese Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u7	Are you jealous?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u8	The reason why we are here today is urgent and that the Government is here today is urgent has only one meaning, that of the Government of Antonio Costa does not want to speak with the third largest political force in this country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u10	It is legitimate that you do so, and you can continue to do so every time you understand it, but at least you have to talk to the Portuguese, pay you the salary and you will pay the new airport. Mr President, I would like to start this debate by pointing out the obvious: we have such a fragile minister, such a non-existent minister, such a incapable minister, who is unable to come to Parliament today to respond to the new airport. A minister as incapable as the country has never seen to lead such a question! [[Congrats from the CH.]] I am therefore sorry, Mr Secretary of State, not to hurt what I am going to say to you, but this government is not just incapacitated in offices, it is incapacitated here, in Parliament, too. It is regrettable that a minister who met with the PSD leader who met with the Prime Minister refuses to come to the House of Democracy to tell the Portuguese what is the location of the new airport and what are the studies that support it and that are not here today. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u11	Since 1969, Mr. President, successive governments promised Portugal a new airport: it was then in the Marcello Caetano government — Marcello Caetano! — which promised to carry out and build a new airport. It came on 25 April, with the promises that April would accomplish everything, but we continued in it. With Guterres, with Durão Barroso, with Pedro Passos Coelho, with José Socrates, we all continued as we are today with António Costa, at the same point. Tourism accounts for 20 % of Portuguese GDP ( gross domestic product ) and for each semester we lost 3 million passengers in Lisbon. Everything because you can't make it clear in the country: a new airport that enlarges Portugal and dignifies us. Everything because you can't do the obvious! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr President, three years ago the Socialist Government committed itself to large-scale works at Portela airport. These works have never advanced, not because of Pedro Nuno Santos, who is not here today and has been hidden in his office, but because of the Minister of Finance, John Leon. Antonio Costa, João León and Fernando Medina have successively blocked any new works at Lisbon airport. The chaos that we saw this summer, with rows of passengers being piled up at an airport that no longer worked, has only one responsible, known as « Socialist Government » — Antonio Costa, João León and Fernando Medina.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u12	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u13	What we have today is simple. Mr President will allow me to present this to the House. The speaker posted a newspaper. « There is no plan B », said Antonio Costa — « there is no plan B ». But, unfortunately, there was plan B, C, D, and all those we wanted to demonstrate, because what was the plainless Montijo B became Alcochete with plan C, became Sintra with plan D and now Santarém with another plane any. It's messed up behind bullshit, with the taxes of the Portuguese to be used for the government's fantasies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u14	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u15	That is what we are discussing today: how did the government let this reach this point?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u16	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u17	The works, worth 3 million, which were to be carried out have not yet taken place, the works of expansion and expansion were to be done and the Prime Minister, at the closed door with the PSD leader, decides to announce another location, without telling the Portuguese, those before whom he responds, who do not care to be ignored and forgotten in this debate. Mr President, we must be very frank about what is at stake today. What led the government to have new alternatives, such as Santarém's? How much will you spend expropriating land, which in other places are public and state? How much are we going to spend on having a new airport, now with new taxpayer taxes, in the year of the biggest tax burden in our history? I would like all Portuguese who are at home to have this number in memory: 35, 93. You know why? Because that's how much we spend every second the airport isn't made: 35, 93 €. Yes, for you, who is following us here in Parliament, know this: these gentlemen who are here, for every passing minute, are taking hundreds of euros to their pension, their salary, the gas oil you have to pay, to pay airports — incompetent! — that they do not know how to do in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]] This is what's happening today. We have two parties in absolute agreement, a fully irresponsible Prime Minister, a fully incapacitated and hidden Minister of Infrastructure and a drifting government, one of the greatest public works in our history. Mr President, it could be worse, but it is not. This is precisely in front of us: the tragedy in Portuguese, with the complicity of the major parties, with the conclusion of the Prime Minister and with the tremendous inability and cowardice of Pedro Nuno Santos, which no longer exists politically. Today, this debate is not just urgent. If I may, Mr President, this debate should have another designation. It should not be an urgent debate, it should be the debate of the Portuguese tragedy, the tragedy of irresponsibility, the tragedy of incapacity, the tragedy of incompetence, the tragedy of cowardice not to be here today. I hope that all Portuguese, tonight and tonight,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u18	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u19	...know well that the minister so brave, the minister so strong to beat the weak,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u20	Mr. Deputy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u21	...the minister so brave politically neglected to come to Parliament to respond to the Portuguese on the new airport. Coward!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u22	...you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u23	The vast cowardice of this government, which is being guarded by the absolute majority, but will not be shielded from the will of the Portuguese. Cobardy is what is left of this debate this afternoon! [[Congrats from the CH, with Members standing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u24	For an intervention in the debate, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The government said that we could not wait any longer, that it was now that it was, that it had to move forward, because the country had already lost because a new airport had not been built. However, what we see in this agreement between PS and PSD is that what they decided — the PS government and also the PSD — was, in fact, a new postponement,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u26	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u27	... not to implement the decision of the construction of a new airport at the Campo de Tiro in Alcochete, which has been taken in our country for a long time and which takes time to be realized. This, yes, was a decision taken based on studies, evaluations, with several alternatives. It was on the basis of these conclusions that the decision was taken to build the new Lisbon airport at the Campo de Tiro in Alcochete, a decision consensualized in our country and that it takes time to be implemented, as I said. The truth is that it was with the privatization of ANA ( Airports and Air Navigation ), the responsibility of the PSD Government and the CDS, at the time, but also with the convergence of the Socialist Party and successive governments,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u28	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u29	... that has chosen a path that has already proved to be no solution for our country. This postponement has profound negative consequences for the country, for the population of the city of Lisbon, for whom the impacts of Portela airport are very significant in the health and environmental level, and there is a decision for the construction of a new airport. But once again, and this is the bottom line, not to face the interests of Vinci, does not advance with the solution that is necessary for the country,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u30	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u31	... for our development, for the populations, so that we can have an airport infrastructure that responds and allows economic and social development, effectively equipping the country of the structure we need. It is not true that there are no resources. Since 2013, the airport revenues of privatization are from Vinci ; the revenues have been from Vinci for nine years. We don't have recipes and we risk not having the airport. It must be made clear that the construction of this airport structure is made precisely with these revenues, which have been increasing and thus the one who continues to win is Vinci. In the middle of this whole process, the only entity that benefits from this decision is Vinci.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u32	And how!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u33	Therefore, the question that arises, that once again we bring the debate to the Assembly of the Republic and with which we confront the Government, is whether the Government will remain in this position of submission, whether it will subaltern our country's interests to the interests of Vinci, or whether it will, in fact, assume what should be its responsibility and take forward the decision it is taking. This is because we are not waiting for a decision 50 years ago, it has been taken, what has happened is that it has not been implemented.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u34	Exactly, that's where he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u35	This is the bottom line, which the CFP has been raising for a long time. There are studies, the case is evaluated, there are reasons, and the solution that best serves is that of the phased construction of the airport at the Fire Camp in Alcochete.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u36	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u37	What we see is that there is nothing that prevents the government from taking this decision. There is nothing that prevents the government from moving forward with the implementation of this airport.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u38	The studies are already done!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u39	Whether the Government is facing the interests of Vinci or will this be a way to find a solution that interests Vinci again, which, we know, has no interest in leaving Lisbon and making these investments? What matters to Vinci is to continue to accumulate profits at the cost of our development, i.e. by denying the people and the country the development to which we are entitled, as well as the construction of the airport structure that we need to actually respond to our needs. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u40	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to the debate about the airport solution, it is with some surprise that we see only economic considerations being brought to the table, leaving aside the necessary environmental concerns. It would be sufficient to comply with the recommendation adopted by this House of the Republic for the environmental assessment to be made considering all the options, so that environmental values are in fact respected. From now on, I would like to take advantage of the presence of either Mr Minister or Mr Secretary of State — to question what is actually on the table when one speaks of an option that is strategic for the country and is considered, including and taking into account the latest statements by the Government, that the opinions of the authorities should be in some way taken into account, but should not limit these options. It is not possible to speak in consensus for the country and then to listen only to a political force, not to listen to all parties, nor to hear the result of the report itself of the Strategic Environmental Assessment. We would also like to know whether or not the Beja option for environmental assessment is being overlooked, because one of the things that should be privileged is the existing resources. We cannot say one day that we defend territorial cohesion and, on the other, forget that we already have infrastructure in the country that they could and should be exploited.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u42	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u43	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: This occasion to have an urgent debate on an issue that took me 50 years ago reminds me of that well-known sketch of the Monty Python in which, suddenly,... nothing happened! In fact, nothing has happened, or perhaps it has happened the custom: more a postponement, more a commission, more a study, to add to the fact that someone has given himself the job to do and that already goes to 71 million euros in studies! A question that lasts for 50 years and results from the custom, with the PS delaying the decision. We have the PS, a party that has ruled over the past 50 years, pretending that it has nothing to do with the matter, to ascribe responsibilities, to « shake the water from the hood », is the custom ; the PS is diabolicizing regulators, such as ANAC (National Civil Aviation Authority ), because they have complied with the law, it is the custom ; and it seems that Mr. Prime Minister thinks that the only person who can intervene in the market and ruin their proper functioning is himself ; the PS wants to share the decision responsibilities, it does not go anything wrong with the PSD, it is the custom ; the PSD to lend itself to that role, unfortunately, is the custom ; and even Mr. President of the Republic to defend the PS game, which is also the custom!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u44	It's the custom!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u45	So after 50 years, we have the custom, but we don't have the airport or know where it's going to be. We don't even know if Portela is going to stay, as much as the tourism agents call... and, Mr. André Ventura, it's not 20 %. The satellite tourism account indicates that about 14 % of the economy is dependent on tourism...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u46	Directly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u47	The satellite account includes direct and indirect, as you should know. Despite having given, today or yesterday, green light to more than 300 million euros of investment to the same Portela, we still do not know how long it will last. We also do not know the size of the airport because we do not know if there will be hubs, because we do not know what will happen to TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ). If they had listened to the Liberal Initiative, she would already be handed over to the final shareholder and we would know whether there would be hubs or not. We also do not know whether the search changes, which certainly commercial aviation had, not only because of the pandemic as for other factors, will affect it. So we run the risk of moving from having airport to less to having more airport. We also have no notion of the economic impact the airport may have. In a country that really took care of the correct application of taxpayers' money, this should be the thing that would justify the financial impact—which is not known either! — the construction of the airport, because it is not yet known what the legal impact of the decision on the current concession, which will last until 2062 and which, in some scenarios, would have to be even longer. None of this is known, after 50 years of indecision. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this means that there are more than 60 % of the Portuguese who have already been born with this discussion going on. And in view of this, Mr Prime Minister has this argument, which I can only qualify as a child: "Those who have waited for 50 years don't have a hard time waiting for another one. Therefore, one year from now, those who have waited for 51 years will not make it hard to wait two more, and out there, not only 60 %, but 100 % of the Portuguese who were born with this discussion and who were not born with the built airport. The question I leave here at the PS bench and the government is whether they see themselves in this attitude of lack of urgency, that this argument by the Prime Minister implies, if they are finally going to have the courage to make the decisions that condition and determine the future of the country or if suddenly, again,... nothing will happen. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u48	For an intervention, Mrs. Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in one thing I think we all agree, almost 60 years is a long time. in these 60 years 17 locations were studied at the new airport in Lisbon, but the last 60 years cannot justify or are responsible for all the nonsense of the last five or six years.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u50	It was the time the Left Block supported the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u51	What happened was that, a little in the image of the portrait by Ricardo Araújo Pereira, this government intended to go after a 60-year study trail and, excluding parts, choose the only location that had never been studied. So they found a wet, protected area, one of the most important environmentally in Europe, and they said: "We have never studied building an airport here, this is where we are going to build it! Do not keep on seeking. ” Strategic Environmental Assessment is in the law for what? That's not necessary, what does the law matter? Oh, my God! The agreement of the municipalities? No, then, what does that matter? The fault lies with the ANAC that gave by law, if it wasn't for ANAC to give by law we didn't even have to do it! When the municipalities said they didn't agree, ANA came running, saying: "Wait a minute! Change the law now! » Whoever announced it was ANA. Then Minister Pedro Nuno Santos said: “If the law cannot be fulfilled, then the law is changed. Do not keep on seeking. ” There are those who understand, as you now understood, Minister Ana Catarina Mendes, that the rules are not changed in the middle of the game, and that was an understanding which I think Parliament had, by majority. Go away, Costa, without an absolute majority, had a solution. He moved to Rui Rio :"We will make a great national agreement and the solution for this national agreement is a strategic environmental assessment. » We agree, it was necessary from the beginning. This Strategic Environmental Assessment places three scenarios: Portela plus Montijo ; Montijo plus Portela ; and Alcochete. What did the opposition say at that time? ‘Warning, the capacity of the Portela cannot be expanded’; « attention, the Montijo is not viable in the medium and long term» ; « attention, Alcochete is the best strategic solution for the country ». What happened? He prevailed over the great national agreement. The Strategic Environmental Assessment was ahead and who won the national agreement, which was the international competition, was a consortium of Coba, with a company that — see there! — it is held by the Spanish State and it is suspected that it could enter into conflict of interest between the airport of Madrid and the airport of Lisbon. The wonders of the market did not give way to the great national agreement and to the Strategic Environmental Assessment and, hence, the Secretary of State signed the most fleeting decree of the history of the Portuguese decrees-laws, which says: « No, the solution is Alcochete plus Montijo. Why? Because Portela's capacity cannot be expanded, because Montijo is not viable in the medium and long term and because Alcochete is the best strategic option for the country. in a magic step, the government recognizes, in a decree that lasts 24 hours, what the opposition, or at least this party, the Left Block, said during this time. There is an impasse, the government goes back and António Costa returns to the national agreement this time, not with Rui Rio, but with Montenegro and with the same exit: a strategic environmental assessment. All right, so far we agree. What is the PSD role in this? Let's know. What are the options that will be in the strategic environmental assessment? This depends on who sent them: the council of the Montijo, the council of Santarém or the council of Lisbon? It is that different PSD councils have over time had different solutions for the location of the new Lisbon airport. Between Tancos, Santarém, Montijo, Lisboa, many options also ran. The truth is that there has already been a study at the new Lisbon airport, there has already been a Strategic Environmental Assessment for its construction and there has been a favorable environmental impact assessment for the construction of the new Lisbon airport.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u52	It's expired!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u53	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You let it expire with the support of the PSD. Alcochete's environmental impact study could have been renewed if the government so desired. What happened was that the Campo de Tiro in Alcochete, as the only truly studied solution for the construction of the new airport in Lisbon, was abandoned, delaying in more than 10 years a decision that was made and that could have been fulfilled.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u54	Mrs. Deputy, you have to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u55	I will finish, Mr. President. What's changed? It was not the location of the Shooting Camp in Alcochete, which did not pass from one municipality to the other. What changed was that ANA was privatized to Vinci and, therefore, PS and PSD walk in this shadow game, "to enjoy with those who work" — because there is no other expression — in a huge irresponsibility over the country's destinations! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u56	For an intervention, Mr Filipe Melo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members : I understand why Minister Pedro Nuno Santos does not come to this House. After arriving yesterday, having indicated the street door to the Minister of Health, after today, in this House, of the morning, the Minister of Territorial Cohesion and the Minister of Economics also see the space of very short maneuver and the door of the very nearby street, Pedro Nuno Santos did not come, precisely with this fear. But there is a lot and a lot to say about this.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u58	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u59	We have EUR 71 million spent on environmental impact studies. Now Alcochete, now Montijo, now Portela plus Montijo and now we speak in Santarém, this goes up and, any day, talks at the airport to Braga! [[CH's laughs.]] Let's be serious, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, this airport joke has been going on for a long time and has to end. But, Madam Minister, I do not think that there is any willingness on the part of your Government to put an end to this. Otherwise, let us see: Mr. Prime Minister calls the PSD leader for a meeting; he recalled later, and took Minister Pedro Nuno Santos by hand, because he hardly seemed to be present. So where are the other parties? Where is the third most voted force? Where are the other parties, to speak on this matter? Don't you think it's gonna be too long? Don't you think it's already a lot of noise around the same issue, to be the same again, that for 50 years they haven't done anything to decide on the future in this matter? [[Congrats from the CH.]] Madam Minister, we will be serious and we will realize, once and for all, that the strategic importance of this airport is too great to be fuelled by this debate between the government and one of the opposition parties — one of the, I repeat — because, and I again stress what has been evident, the greatest party of the opposition, the only party that opposes should have been called to intervene in this discussion and it was not. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u60	It's too serious a matter, we're talking in a lot of millions, not to mention the millions that can be lost from here on. Otherwise, notice: the Santarém solution is of interest to a private group, to the Baraqueiro; the Alcochete solution, everyone knows who is interested; in relation to the hub, it is also important to see where this will stop. And with regard to TAP, Mr Minister for Infrastructure said four months ago, in the budget office, that it was not involved in it, but now it comes up with the statement for not saying and it can be sold. And the EUR 3000 million that cost the Portuguese pocket, where are they?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u61	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u62	What will be done about this value? Mr. Minister, it is important that this be defined, it is very important that this move forward and it was very important that Mr. Minister be here today to face up. He didn't have the courage to do it, he has to be called again. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u63	For an intervention, Mr Rui Tavares has now given the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u64	Mr President, Dear colleagues : In the discussion of the State budget for 2022, this Parliament gave rise to a proposal for the addition of the Book which simply said that the Government would carry out a national airport plan. The PS and the PCP voted against, the PSD and the Arrival — which seems to be in a great hurry today — abstained, the Liberal Initiative also voted against, only the PAN and the Block voted in favour. That's because there was a hurry, Mrs. Members of the European Parliament —... [[CH protests.]] ... that also do not remove any rabbit from the carton or say, after all, where they want me to go to the airport, because, also, there is no agreement between you in relation to it—,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u65	He's getting a pink card out of his pocket!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u66	...because there were political men who had to make decisions. Here we have been here a few months and perhaps the question to ask is whether it would not have been better to make a national airport plan to know, within a strategy for the whole country, where it would be the best location and thus ensure that this national airport plan would not be discussed, in a closed room, between PS and PSD,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u67	Ah, but it was!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u68	...it would not only be what was left of the 11-bar shirt that puts us in Vinci and the broken cock that now appears the Baraqueiro, and that it was part of a national debate on a national issue. Now Santarém appears — personally, gives me very good, my village is there by the foot...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u69	I thought I was coming from the sidewalk!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u70	From Santarém to the world, but from Santarém, certainly, via Madrid, because it would be an airport of 2. o or 3. The stairwell.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u71	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u72	So the question is this: to what extent are we not at the time of this open debate, and not only between the two major parties, through a national airport plan, which, by the way, has asked for this debate, but also does not bring any solution? [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u73	The Bureau no longer applied for intervention by the Members. Members and, as this debate implies the intervention of the Government, Mr President-in-Office of the State of Infrastructure has the floor. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Lisbon region needs a new airport solution. The one that exists is exhausted and we need to solve a problem that has been dragging for decades. I believe that this is a fact that few will dispute, which, we agree, on such a controversial issue as this, is not just a matter of fact. An airport is most likely the infrastructure that most brands leave on the territory, on the environment, on the regional economy and on the well-being of neighbouring populations. It is an infrastructure that will serve the region of Lisbon and the country for the next decades and will compromise future generations and governments. It is therefore essential that this decision may have as broad a political consensus as possible, but it is important that we do not confuse the time of analysis, study, comparison of alternatives with the time of decision. Before deciding, it is necessary to gather all the information, work it out, analyze it and produce a technical and scientific judgment on it. This is what an instrument such as Strategic Environmental Assessment will allow. This procedure follows a specific legal regime, Decree-Law No. 232/2007, and has rules: as much as we all wanted a faster process, a strategic environmental assessment cannot be made in two weeks or two months.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u75	And in 50 years? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u76	I remember now that this same strategic environmental assessment was exactly, I repeat, that it was exactly what Parliament had to carry out when it voted in the specialization process of the State budget for 2021, the proposed amendments of the NAP and the Green Party. All parties, with the exception of the party supporting the Government, voted in favour of these proposals. It is with this strategic environmental assessment that the Government is committed.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u77	And who does it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u78	On this moment of analysis, of study, of comparison of alternatives, the government reached an agreement with the PSD on the following methodology on 23 September. This methodology will be implemented in a resolution of the Council of Ministers shortly to be adopted, together with the proposal for a law which will enable Parliament to define the competences of municipalities in the area of aerodrome licensing.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u79	It's Monday!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u80	It's roll law!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u81	According to the methodology defined, the strategic environmental assessment will be conducted by an independent technical committee. Mr. Prime Minister will appoint a general coordinator of this committee, on a proposal from the presidents of the Superior Council for Public Works, the National Council for the Environment and Sustainable Development and the Board of Rectors of the Portuguese Universities. A monitoring committee will also be set up, plural and composed of multiple entities, which will function as a follow-up to the work carried out by the independent technical committee. The strategic environmental assessment will be completed before the end of 2023. After delivering the final report to the Government, that is to say, after the time for analysis, study and comparison of alternatives, the time will come for the decision — yes, the decision! — the choice best served by the region of Lisbon and the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u82	Don't read what's there, answer the questions! Be serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u83	at this time, the whole country and all political parties will be able to appreciate the report produced and express their opinion, participating in a plural debate. Given that this is an infrastructure that will serve the country for the next decades, through different generations and multiple governments, it would be important that this decision could have as broad a political consensus as possible. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u84	For an intervention, Mr Carlos Pereira of the Socialist Party now has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin this speech with a previous note to say that, normally when I hear interventions of the genres of Mr Ventura and Mr Filipe Melo, of the Arrival, I usually use the maximum of my grandmother, a sage, who said something that has accompanied me quite a lot in life and which seems to me quite important for this moment, which is: normally for « crazy words, mossy ears». [[CH protests.]] But at the moment, I think it is particularly hygienic to make some comments on the speeches that you are making. Ladies and gentlemen did. The first has to do with what I and the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group think is this debate, that is to say, it is a sort of jealousy crisis of arriving in the face of what is the position of the PSD. [[CH protests.]] This seems very evident in the speeches which you are making. Ladies and gentlemen, they are almost Calimero! But I meant to tell the gentlemen. Members to actually leave the PSD alone! [[CH protests.]] The PSD is making a way for what is very important to the country, which is the new airport of Lisbon. [[CH protests.]] Mrs. Members of all parliamentary committees, I have heard everyone get up and talk in 50 years, and, we agree, 50 years of discussion is something that affects us all.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u86	And it's my fault? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u87	It does not only affect PS, it does not only affect PSD, it does not only affect the Liberal Initiative, it affects all. [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]] In fact, all Portuguese who sat at these banks and at governments have been affected, in all governments. Mr. André Ventura, you have very firmly supported the Rabbit Pass Government, which has also been there and has not yet concluded... [[CH protests.]] In fact, Mr President, I have heard you say from the rostrum that you have not decided anything, but you have decided Montijo and Mr. So it is necessary, on the limit, that we all make an act of contrition. It is necessary to look into the future and think about what it takes to do from here forward to overcome this obstacle that has affected everyone, in fact, 50 years ago. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u88	The PS doesn't have any complex about it. We know we didn't do everything right. [[CH protests.]] We have not done everything well, but we are committed, with the greatest party to the opposition, to ensure an agreement that will enable a serious methodology to actually achieve a solid solution for the country. This is absolutely essential and I think it became clear to everyone, with the interventions of all the benches. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]] The Government has already demonstrated that it will do everything within its power to ensure that this agreement, established with the PSD, bears fruit and, in fact, enables a solution to the new airport that solves the problems we have.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u89	And where will it be? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u90	It is also not in question — and it is good that it is also clear — that all parties are involved in this process.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u91	Ah, the central block!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u92	There may and should be participation; there will be moments for such participation. There is a central moment to define such a methodology to advance with strategic environmental assessment, but there will be time for other parties to think about what the next airport should be. So we don't steal from that principle. [[CH protests.]] I also wanted to say something that seems very important to me. Some parties, particularly on the left, have raised questions about Vinci, who has problems with this, problems with that, but we are not concerned about that right now.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u93	Don't! That's just details!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u94	We are very focused on what needs to be done. In fact, Mr Bruno Dias, you well know that we have no responsibility for the privatisation of Vinci.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u95	What is needed is PEC 3 and PEC 4!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u96	So, what we really want now is to ensure that we have a solution for the new airport and that this solution will meet the interest of the Portuguese. The second question I want to mention, Mr André Ventura — I do not usually present leaves in this plenary,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u97	...because I heard it wasn't appropriate, but I can't stop saying this! — I see in all their interventions, and I also see today something about possible corruption, possible hidden interests, possible opacity. Does the honourable Member know that "do what I say and not what I do"? I have two news here and one says : « The regional government member company has received €460 000 in direct adjustments made by public authorities ». The speaker posted a newspaper. Do you know what the regional government is? It's the Azores, the one you support. I was looking for a direct debate, an urgent debate on this matter and there was nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u98	And about the airport! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u99	But there is also another news that the regional government that you support has not submitted the plan to combat corruption in due course. [[CH Member's Protests André Ventura.]] Therefore, it is good for you to be consistent once and for all in your speeches and, when you come to this plenary to say anything about this matter, see what happens in your home, see what happens in the Regional Azores Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u100	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as soon as there are conditions to hear Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira speak on behalf of the PSD in this debate, I will be pleased to give you the floor. [[CH protests.]] Let's just wait a minute. [[Pause.]] Sir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u101	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: Our debate today is important, on an important issue, although it is really urgent that we have to complain that there is no need for anything to be heard, and, given all that they have said so far, I did not understand an idea that was about what they want for the airport. But there will certainly be a time for that. The Socialist Party — it should not be forgotten — has been in power for the past 27 years and, directly, this government has been in power for seven years. We must recognise, because the fact is unforgettable, that this has been postponed by the government, year after year, with an apology behind the other, and that, even if I did not have to make the great structural decision, at least two things could have done: first, I could have done the works of the Portela, which were not dependent on the final solution and were postponed and more postponed, beginning to not fully perceive the origin of this — and the PSD will want to see clear of who, besides the Prime Minister, is the responsibility —; second, I could have done something that stems from the law and that was, and continues to be, fundamental, that is, the Strategic Environmental Assessment. Why was it fundamental? It was fundamental, and it is not just because it is legal and because it would bring us the technical comparison that allows us to base the political decision. The best way to be transparent is to be preceded by the legal and necessary Strategic Environmental Assessment. More: it is not even possible to say, in this case, that the PSD has changed its mind, because the previous PSD direction already defended exactly that everything should start with this evaluation. That's true, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's position has not helped. It does not help to have a Prime Minister who says, live on television, that there are studies for all tastes — no one comes out of this kind of expression! It does not help that Mr. Prime Minister, with functions legitimized by popular vote, says he is waiting for the PSD — because he can wait, because the PSD will not rule for him! It also does not credible the project, nor the process, the Minister of Infrastructure, in an atmosphere of unmeasured courage, take advantage of the absence of the Prime Minister and, in good socialist fashion, of the lack of an airport, move forward with two, then being denied, because that could not be. Mr. Secretary of State ended the innocent victim of this all, which, we agreed on by the Government, does not credible the project. It also does not credible the project the entry of a Spanish company linked to public capital that comes to Portugal to reflect and decide on strategic Portuguese airport interests. However, the PSD has a huge responsibility in this regard. PSD is a power party, not a protest party. So what we reflect and what we say has to be consistent. On this issue, the PSD will always have a position, but one thing we will not do: we will not rule by the government. More: there is at least no agreement between PS and PSD. The PSD, listening to the topic, expressed its priorities. Does the government accept them? Great, let's keep going. The government doesn't accept them? The last decision, whether accepted or not accepted, will always be only from the Government itself. [[PSD applause.]] Mr President, this process is obviously still in the hands of the government, but let me deny the statement, which I have heard several times today, that we are still wasting time. I am sorry, but to confirm that this strategic environmental assessment will be advanced, the truth is that we will finally gain time, because it was necessary and will have to be done, preferably, reflecting all the potential places where a infrastructure such as these, with both cost and impact, can be made. this time, we are not delaying this time, we are moving forward, but in the end, who has to decide is the government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u102	The Bureau no longer records entries for speeches, so you have the floor to close the debate in the remaining time, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u103	Mr President, I would like to begin by noting the following: Mr Secretary of State, Minister, this was the debate of the political cowardice, to which the whole country has attended. Therefore, for those who are watching, it was another deplorable show of the government, which was not very well, however we will understand the reasons behind the absence of Pedro Nuno Santos in today's debate. In fact, he is no longer a minister of anything. I understand that Antonio Costa thinks twice before calling Parliament a « minister of nothing». Mr President, 70 million was the cost of the studies we have done so far. Do you know how much Beja Airport cost? It cost 33 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u104	We also saw that news!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u105	The shame is this: we spent 70 million studying an airport and 30 million building one! This is it, Portugal! Portuguese, this is what PS and PSD gave us! [[Congrats from the CH.]] “ We’ll do that! And then the Secretary of State comes to say: "My dear ones, we are on the right path, don't worry about it at home, it's all right. How much are we spending? We're spending 70 million, 100 million, 200 million. It's your money, it's not ours. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr. Secretary of State, I understand that today he was put in an ungrateful position, but for God's sake, I ask him for a little dignity, apologizing to the Portuguese - he was not ill! — the money we spent with the airport 50 years ago, without PS and PSD being able to agree on what we should do. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u106	Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira, says there is no agreement between PS and PSD. So I don't know where this comes from. The speaker posted a newspaper. It must be false news that those PS lords propagate. I will read: « Government and PSD arrive at agreement for works in Portela and to study the proposal of Santarém. » He's here! Therefore, you are waking up, at the closed door, what you must do and then say that you have no agreement. Better assume that they're the right arm of the PS. You'd better take it! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u107	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u108	Mr President, I ask you to allow me to finish my speech. Mr. Secretary of State has come to tell the Portuguese that they do not worry because there comes the great technical commission that the PS has promised many years ago. I wanted the Portuguese to know who is part of this technical committee. Do you know who it is? I say to you: members of the Board of Rectors, members of the Higher Council of Public Works and members of the National Council of the Environment. All of these will appoint six coordinators, that is, these, which are many, will appoint six coordinators, who will appoint another coordinator. My dear ones, if this is not to enjoy with us, if this is not « to enjoy with whom you work», it seems like a joke between the PS and the PSD! [[Congrats from the CH.]] I shall conclude by saying that there are things that have become very clear in this debate, such as the irresponsibility of the PS to talk about corruption. Mr. Carlos Pereira, it is better to hide at home the rest of the week. [[CH's laughs.]] This debate remains the political cowardice of the PS, the irresponsibility and the consolidation of PSD with PS and, above all, 50 years with the Portuguese paying without the government having come to give a single solution. Shame, shame, shame! That is what remains of this debate. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u109	We thus conclude the first item on our agenda. [[Pause.]] The Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs is calling for the floor. To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u110	Mr President, I would like to make an appeal to the Bureau if possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u111	If it's about the conduct of the works, you have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u112	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the respect the government has for this House is total and absolute. This debate has been convened this week...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u113	As a matter of urgency!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u114	As a matter of urgency. As I was saying, Mr. Minister of Infrastructure had already, together with Mr. Prime Minister, a ceremony marked for the launch of the Lisbon-Port/ Porto-Lisboa high speed line, which is why he could not be in this plenary. Not being Mr Minister, there is Mr State Secretary for Infrastructures, who has the protection. I remind this Parliament, with the same respect, that the Government is represented by those who think that it should represent the Government at every moment, each debate, without ever excluding these debates. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u115	Is Mr. André Ventura calling for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u116	For the same purpose, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u117	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u118	Mr President, following Mrs Minister's inquiry, I would like to say that I understand that the conduct of the work is sometimes uncomfortable to the Government, but that is what Parliament must be. Parliament must be embarrassed to oppose it. I remind the House that the Minister — Mr President, for his knowledge — finished his speech today on the high-speed line in Porto was 11 hours and 56 minutes. I was looking at myself, it was uncomfortable, but I was looking at it. [[It was 11 hours and 56 minutes.]] The way from Porto to Lisbon, like many Mr. You know, it's done in 2 hours and 34 minutes. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u119	According to Google Maps, from Porto to Lisbon it takes 3 hours and 6 minutes!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u120	If you come with Eduardo Cabrito, it's faster! [[CH's laughs.]] Mr. Minister, the Minister had perfect time to be here today. The Minister knows, as I know, as everyone knows, as the whole country knows, because the Minister is not here today. He's not here today because Antonio Costa didn't let him be.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u121	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u122	I will finish, Mr. President. I know that the Rules of Procedure are clear, and Mr President has already made this clear in other speeches, but I would ask that, whenever possible, as a second figure of the Portuguese State, the President of the Assembly of the Republic should lead the Government not to come here with entertainment and comply with the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic and the Constitution, leading ministers to respond to Parliament and not, with due respect, to send personalities who have nothing to do with the conduct of the airport. It's just that Pedro Nuno Santos always wants to be him driving the airport theme, but he's not here today. It is disrespecting democracy and disrespecting Parliament! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u123	At the conclusion of the first item on the agenda, we move on to the second item, which consists of the debate, with the participation of the Government, on the state of the Union, as provided for in Article 4(1) ( d ). the Law on Monitoring, Appreciation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the field of the European Union Construction Process ( Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August, as amended by Law No 21 / 2012 of 17 May and Law No 18 / 2018 of 2 May ). To open the debate on behalf of the Government, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Europe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are here today to discuss the state of the European Union. This debate could not be more timely, because the European Union is under attack, as the act of sabotage to North Stream 1 and North Stream 2 conducts - which we learned yesterday - well demonstrated. In addition to the attack on Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity, it is the European Union itself which is directly targeted by those who have no weight to do energy, such as food and, in general, price escalation, weapons that aim to achieve our way of life. That is why the speech by the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, on the state of the Union, on 14 September, was so true by putting the war of aggression against Ukraine at the heart of European concerns and by identifying as priorities the European Union's responses to deal with the consequences of this war, either in terms of energy or in terms of support for the economy and citizens, whether in terms of democracy and respect for the rule of law. It is on the side of Ukraine and the Ukrainian people that we defend the values on which our Union is founded, that we protect our societies and institutions, that we are fighting imperialist threats and that we reaffirm the idea of peace, solidarity and convergence that illuminates the European project. The statement of the state of the Union is undoubtedly a milestone in the annual calendar of the European Union. It is in this speech by the President of the European Commission that the ideas, objectives and political direction are presented which are intended to be printed on the work of the Union the following year. This is the moment when we begin to define the course of European activity. In view of the importance of this moment, the Government has decided to play a more interventional role in this process — more interventional and more timely. We therefore carried out an innovative exercise with the aim of anticipating the development of the European Commission's work programme for 2023, and previously presenting a set of proposals, suggestions and contributions to this work programme that respond to the priorities identified at national level. The Government has made this identification, ministry ministry, and challenged the social partners, local authorities, as well as several representatives of the business sector to actively contribute to the identification of these priorities. We have done so in order to build a comprehensive, participatory and representative document that could be appreciated in time by the European Commission before the debate on the state of the Union. From this process came the document we called « Portugal's priorities for the European Commission's 2023 work programme », which was sent directly by the Prime Minister to the President of the European Commission during the summer. With this exercise, we do not intend to make our priorities the only designs of the European Commission. Yes, we want to appreciate Portugal's vision and make it more decisive in the European context. It was therefore with great expectation that we heard President von der Leyen's speech and attended the debate on the state of the Union in the European Parliament. We have noted with satisfaction that both the speech of the President of the European Commission and the Commission's letter of intent, as well as the inclusion of various suggestions and proposals made by citizens at the Conference on the Future of Europe, also meet many of the priorities identified in the document we have drawn up. In terms of energy, and beyond the short-term responses currently under discussion, we would like to point out, of course, the green hydrogen bet, with the creation of a hydrogen bank, which is budgeted at EUR 3000 million. Together with the announcement of a structural reform of the electricity market, this initiative is perfectly aligned with the options that Portugal has adopted in this field. We also noted with satisfaction the Commission's concern to provide the European Union with greater autonomy in the face of external crises, especially with an impact on the demand for critical raw materials. The announcement of a legislative act on essential raw materials, together with a European sovereignty fund for this purpose—which we accompany with great interest— will bring greater security to European value chains and will strengthen our industry. We also note very positively the recognition of the decisive role of small and medium-sized enterprises, as we have pointed out in the document with national priorities, and the fact that the European Commission has announced a package of support measures specifically aimed at this ecosystem, which is the cornerstone of the Portuguese economy. It is also important to highlight the openness of the European Commission to trigger the process of reforming the economic governance of the Union in terms that guarantee not only sustainability but also the growth of our economies. The announcement of the creation of an Academy of Skills in the field of cybersecurity, the package for the defence of democracy or the new Strategy for Maritime Security of the European Union are also other good signs given by the European Commission in relation to the priorities presented by Portugal. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The geopolitical moment that Europe is going through makes the debate around the state of the Union at a particularly important time. The invasion of Ukraine by the Russian Federation has tested the resilience of European societies, with the deterioration of the living conditions of families and businesses, in particular the increase in energy costs and food goods, the disruption of value chains and the unpredictability of their outcome. This conflict, as President von der Leyen well identified, sparked the inner strength of Europe. And it is with the strength of a united, coherent and determined European Union in its action that we will be able to overcome the serious challenges we are facing and, at the same time, to respond to national concerns, using European tools to better defend the interests of our citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u125	It's going to be a success!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u126	We know how important the European project is for our economic and social development and we will always be building bridges and architects of dialogue in Europe, however difficult it may be. That there is no doubt about Portugal's commitment to the European Union, a Union that aims to be different but cohesive. And it is under this diversity that we will continue to build our future together. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u127	For an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mrs Jamila Madeira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After two world wars, solidarity, peace and the defence of humanism and democracy were the values that guided us and allowed us to live more than 50 years in peace in Europe. Defending the fundamental principles of the European Union in the face of the speech of hatred and misinformation becomes increasingly urgent and imperative. As successive crises hit Europe, the threat worsens, finding fertile ground to instigate fear and panic in populations. We all know how easy and populist discourses are born and fed, and history tells us in detail the horror it brought to our collective life. We know collectively that we do not want to return there, but, in particular, we also know that the state of need and the promotion of facilities induces the most skeptical to believe in « wolves with lamb skin». The increase in extremism in the European Union implies a leap towards the future, a firm leap, with a set of initiatives now reinforced in this discourse of the state of the Union and which — and which — have been underlined — have counted on the contributions of the Portuguese Government, which we very much welcome. Proposals such as: to strengthen the Union's union to ensure the autonomy and collective security of all those with us who share this area of prosperity and solidarity, which is the European Union; to reform the rules of economic governance so that, in the face of new and various challenges, we do not revert to the mistakes of the past, of the financial crises and of sovereign debts, but we take advantage of and strengthen what has been done well during the pandemic crisis and which has enabled people not to lose their jobs, not lose their income, and to support companies to maintain their productive and subsequent capacity to resume their investment. The prosperity and improvement of people's lives go through the capacity of a quality public investment, determining to have a collective future with more hope and dignity and therefore a common budgetary instrument, focused on investment and convergence, is absolutely essential. It is necessary to complete the banking union in all its dimensions. But let me emphasise an idea: it is absolutely imperative to create a common deposit insurance mechanism, so that all citizens feel more protected, and strengthen the European Union's own resources, so that we are not before an economic giant with « clay feet», making it powerless to help those who need it most, and we need to create conditions to ensure that the hungry minimum income is guaranteed to all the Europeans who need it. The moment is about strengthening cohesion and cooperation, fighting individualist populism and discourses. We want a more courageous Union and closer to citizens when they face great difficulties in their lives. We know that the Portuguese Government is fully committed to this path and, with the support of this Parliament, it can have a structural contribution so that this path, as previously in the pandemic, builds new and prosperous routes within the European framework. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u129	Even within the time available for PS, Mr. Jorge Seguro Sanches has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The times we live, forced by the war in Ukraine, force us to strengthen three challenges in the area of energy — security of supply, prices and sustainability of the planet. This difficulty must be used as an opportunity for the European Union to become, also in the energy chapter, an area of freedom and free movement of renewable energy across all countries. That is why Portugal, and not only this government, but also previous governments – and here I wanted to stress the Madrid Summit in 2015, or the 2018 Summit in Lisbon, has worked with the Spanish Government, the Government of France, the European Union, the European Investment Bank, on the interlinkages of the Iberian Peninsula. in this framework, I would like to congratulate the Government and, in this case, the Secretary of State for European Affairs on his very recent meeting with the French Government, of which I would like to have more explanations. We have had, over decades, difficulty passing the Pyrenees. In electricity, we aposted, believed, and it was possible to finance an electric interconnection off the Gulf of Biscay, with the support of the European Union, with the financing of the European Investment Bank. But at the level of gas, natural gas, and at the level of what is also the future, which has to do with renewable gases in particular — in which Portugal, because of its great capacity for renewable energy, can also play an important role, in coordination, as is evident, with Spain — this is a great opportunity which I would like to underline here in the Assembly of the Republic. I believe that all parties will agree on these objectives. These objectives are not only to lead the ability to produce renewable energy at European level, but also at global level, so that we can also have more sustainable prices and guarantee — which is increasingly important — and the times we are living in are very relevant to this issue — the security of supply. It is in this framework, Mr Secretary of State, that the recent contact with the French Government, along with the positions of the Government of Germany and the Spanish Government, which will also have the Presidency of the European Union next year, seems to indicate that there is a good alignment in order to recover much of the lost time. I congratulate you, therefore, for the meeting you have had and I would like to stress the importance of effectively, within the framework of interconnections, to bet on everything that has to do with renewable energy, because Portugal, I know - it is not a country that has fossil energy, it is a country that has renewable energy, and it is important not only that we use the physical infrastructure of electrical interconnections for that end — work that is already very advanced - but that we can also do it in terms of renewable gases in the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u131	To speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Secretary of State: We have heard his speech, which once again was based on announcements, with attention, but in the face of misexecution and misallocation of funds, with so much opacity, must be much more in panic than it appears here. And if you're not, you should be, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u133	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u134	In the past, your confidence could even come from the fact that the Secretary of State believes that your role was basically to produce advertisements, as you have seen here. But we agree, Mr Secretary of State, that the government is not, or at least should not be, an advertising agency. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u135	Mr. Secretary of State, your role is to produce results. It's us, the PSD bench, what do we have to remember about this? It is inevitable to note that here you have not given a word about either misexecution or the news of the day, about the opacity of the allocation of funds. [[PSD applause.]] And don't come to us with the excuse that you're not a relative of yours, Mr. Secretary of State. They are European funds, it is an ethical issue and it is the image of Portugal that is at stake. What we evaluate here is not the propaganda that brings us, but the results produced, and these are frankly bad. Let us look at the case of the pandemic, a time that was particularly difficult for businesses, where small and medium-sized enterprises needed the most. Mr. Secretary of State, are you able to tell us that the Portuguese Government has been up to date? No, it wasn't, and it's not just the PSD saying this. The OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) found that, during the pandemic, Portugal only helped 21 % — and I repeat, Mr Secretary of State, 21 % — of small and medium-sized enterprises. Portugal was one of the least helpful countries to companies in the pandemic crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u136	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u137	In fact, from the euro area, only Finland has spent less money than we have, and yet it has managed to help more companies. What is the sum of this, Mr Secretary of State? For someone who is from Porto, like me, it is appropriate to say: "It's a lot of dick and little grape. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD applause.]] And if in Portugal there is no shortage of money from European funds, the fact is that the overwhelming majority of companies do not have enough money. That's a failure, it's a bad result of your government. Moreover, as the PSD has been questioning, there is a delay in the implementation of Portugal 2020 ( PT2020 ), which still has EUR 5000 million to be implemented by the end of next year. More: the PT2030 ( Portugal 2030 ), which has not yet begun, and yet the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ), which has a terrible execution. I mean, there's no money left to Portugal to fight the crisis. Portugal has a total of 2021 to 2027, around EUR 60 billion in European Union subsidies. The problem is that there are values to be executed, Mr Secretary of State, and that is why I tell you: what Portugal lacks is competence, what Portugal lacks is responsibility and what Portugal lacks is the government's accountability. We need to make good use of the funds in a transparent and fair manner. That is why I tell you, Mr Secretary of State, that resources may have served for a fictitious trust until this debate, but now, with the numbers presented here, and in view of this news, we see clearly: this government not only does not have the right accounts as it does not even know how many goes. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u138	Even in the time available for the PSD Parliamentary Group, I now give the floor to Mr Sérgio Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At a time when Europe and the world face an unprecedented lack of mobilising leaders and figures, I am pleased to see the firm and lucid voice of Ursula von der Leyen emerge within the European space. His excellent speech on the state of the Union, where only sweats and tears were missing for, without euphemisms, and in a Church style to summon us to the battle of the difficulties we have to face and overcome, has once again revealed an unequivocal leadership capacity. Few would believe that he met such complex challenges as pandemic or war in Ukraine. The clear and objective distinction between the values we want and those we reject, between the measures that must be adopted and those which we reject, between who are our partners and who threaten our way of life and our liberal democracies and the transparent way as he stated that we cannot fail to be solidarity, at any cost, with those who are tragically violent for defending our values are a light that Europe was lacking. Although without the electoral support that a national leadership confers, Ursula von der Leyen presents an undeniable contrast to the leaders of government who are titubian, tactical, reactive, that our Prime Minister is, unfortunately, one of the examples. [[PSD applause.]] in a four-and-a-half-year legislation with an absolute majority, then, with ideal conditions to govern, we have already witnessed an unprecedented degradation in the credibility of government, with recurrent lack of coordination, skills and lack of truth in communication, as well as constant inconsistencies in the face of past positions that penalize taxpayers and pensioners. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u140	We are therefore comforted by the firmness, clarity and sense of leadership that the President of the European Commission has revealed. They are a factor of hope in the troubled times we live. in these leadership values, Mr. President and Mr. Members, I also look forward to the fact that in such a complex environment, which requires new priorities, the European Commission can continue to deepen its response to the unique characteristics and specificities of the outermost regions by implementing appropriate measures and policies to their very own reality. in these measures, I stress the crucial importance for an outermost region such as Madeira to continue to have instruments of fiscal competitiveness, that the Madeira International Business Centre is a paradigmatic example. 8 % of regional GDP, 3000 jobs and 100 to 150 million tax revenue are concerned. Openness and responsiveness is what I expect from the Portuguese Government and the European Commission for the adoption of a fifth tax incentive scheme. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u141	To speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party, Mr Pedro Pessanha has now spoken.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the heat of Ukraine's invasion, Europe, once again caught by a war on its territory, approves, in the Council of the European Union, on 21 March 2022, the so-called Strategic Bussola, an ambitious plan aimed at strengthening the European Union's security and defence policy by 2030. It was last week six months since its approval and the truth is that, of the Portuguese Government, we have not yet heard any effective action plan for the realization of the central design of the Strategic compass: to make Europe stronger and more capable in terms of security and defence. The Strategic compass of the European Union is based on three pillars: unity, solidarity and determination.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u143	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u144	Six months after approval of the Strategic compass, I ask you, Mr Secretary of State: where is the determination of the Portuguese Government? What concrete measures do you have to show, or do you think that the Strategic compass is just a letter of intent and nothing has changed this past year?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u145	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u146	And on the pillar of solidarity, I ask: where is solidarity for the other members of the European Union? Does the Portuguese Government understand that solidarity is just the kind that is expected of others when we extend our hand? Or does the government understand that it can and should contribute?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u147	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u148	Six months after the approval of the Strategic compass, what concrete measures do you have to show to the Portuguese and European partners that demonstrate Portuguese determination and solidarity in the field of collective security and defence? Nothing to show, because nothing to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u149	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u150	And also nothing does for the defense and sovereignty of Portugal. Do not invest in people or equipment, leaving the Armed Forces in a demotivation that compromises their culture and identity as a guarantor of what it is to be Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u151	It's true, it's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u152	in this, the government is consistent; it can demotivate everyone, doctors, nurses, teachers, all the servants of the nation, including the Armed Forces, our military, those who are the ultimate guarantee of Portuguese security. In conclusion, I would like to ask: What is the use of this government? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u153	Even in the time available for the party Arrival, Mr. Diogo Pacheco de Amorim now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The European Union faces what will be the biggest crisis in its history, a crisis that has three well-defined causes. As a first cause, monetary default reflected in inflation caused by the ECB's massive currency printing ( European Central Bank ) as of July 2012.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u155	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u156	Large deficits in some European countries have been financed by the issue of bonds, and these have been acquired by the ECB in return for the issue of currency, which in turn had no return on productivity.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u157	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u158	The pandemic and the war in Ukraine have only aggravated a problem that has already come well behind. The inflation resulting from this is crushing the budgets of European families. As a second cause we have geopolitical blindness. The irresponsible energy dependence on which some members of the European Union have stood before the always unpredictable Russian regime is costing the economy and the same European families already slaughtered by inflation. [[Exactly! All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u159	This is particularly serious in countries where — the supreme unwise! — their leaders have decided to abdicate from traditional, safe and clean sources of energy, as is the case with nuclear power. Finally, ideological arrogance, for what, more than that recklessness and blindness, may call into question the European project is the manifest lack of respect for the political options of all and of each of the peoples and nations that integrate this project. We all know what I'm talking about right now. The process of European construction began by being a project of freedom. It was this project started and, until a certain moment, led by statesmen. The bureaucrats and third-line politicians who took over him threaten to take him to a dead end, which will be regrettable. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u160	To speak on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr Bernardo Blanco has now spoken.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u161	Mr President, I would like to begin with a quick note, because in my opinion, as I have already reached the Bureau, taking into account Article 224 ( 3 ). that of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, this debate should have questions and answers. In fact, we have had discussions in these forms with the Secretary of State. So, what I asked you about was that there would then be a clarification at the Conference of Leaders, even with the services, to whom I have already spoken, about the future models of this debate. It is that this is not a big thing: it speaks one person from the PS, then it speaks another from the PS, after the PSD the same thing, one here, another there... i.e. there is no debate between us and in terms of scrutiny there is little or nothing, because then, as we know, Mr. Secretary of State, with all respect, responds to whatever you want. Basically, answer whatever you want! [[Applause from the IL.]] In keeping with the current model, I would also like to note that Mr. Minister said recently that the Government has a great deal of respect for Parliament, but the Minister for Infrastructure and Housing was not here at the previous point, and here is not the Minister responsible for European affairs. If this is respect, I don't know what is contempt, because ministers are never here. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u162	Mr. Secretary of State, I will ask three questions and I would very much like to be able to answer next. Unfortunately, I will no longer have time for debate, but I hope you will answer. The first question concerns the rule of law. It was one of the priorities announced by Mrs. President of the European Commission, the defence of democracy and the rule of law, especially with regard to what is happening in Hungary. As the Government well knows, the European Parliament has recently considered that Hungary is no longer a complete democracy. All Socialist MEPs voted in favour of this text. Next, the European Commission, under the conditionality mechanism, said that most European funds would be suspended—they would propose this to the Council, which now has considerably two months to decide. The Government will therefore have to vote on this proposal. My simple question is whether the government will vote in favour of this proposal or continue with the position it took two years ago when Mr. Prime Minister went to Hungary, visited Viktor Orbán and said: "The rule of law should not be a condition for receiving European funds. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[All right! Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u163	The second question concerns Ukraine, which was obviously the opening of the speech by the President of the Commission. The great achievement of the Russians so far has been to unite European peoples in the defence of Ukraine and European values. Obviously this role of Europe has been undeniable, but it is up to the Member States to continue to work on this and one of the proposals of the Liberal Initiative adopted here, which has become law, that requires the Government, basically, to identify the lists of associations linked to the Russian regime and, after making that identification, to suspend all public support. It's been months, the government hasn't said anything, and the press doesn't know anything either. So my question is very simple: have you already identified an association or—and, unfortunately, having for that side— you still haven't even started this process, which is in the law and which, therefore, is to comply? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u164	One last question has to do with our energy dependence and our ability to respond to this dependence. With regard to China, Mr. President was very emphatic to say: « we will not fall into the same trap again, we are quite dependent on Russian gas and we will not do the same with raw materials in relation to China ». Now this is something we have been saying since we entered Parliament in the debates of the previous Parliament with the Prime Minister. I would therefore like to know where the lithium contests are in Portugal and what the Government's view is so that Portugal can provide Europe in this matter. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u165	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP, Mr Alfredo Maia now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The speech on the state of the European Union, delivered by the President of the European Commission, is a shocking piece of speech, by the ostensibly belligerent tone and by the height with which he presents his idea of world order, in fact, obediently following Washington's orders. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u167	Dedicating much of the intervention to war in Ukraine and the Russian Federation, Ursula von der Leyen did not give space, among the exact 5814 words he spoke, to a single word that translates a desire for peace or even dialogue. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u168	On the contrary, it made clear the intention to continue the escalation of confrontation that encourages the United States, NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ) and the European Union. They are from Ms. Ursula von der Leyen these stoning words: "It is not the time to calm down, but, yes, to give proof of determination. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u169	Take a good look!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u170	Although he recognizes the devastating effect of sanctions, Ursula von der Leyen defends them, making the apologization of war, which should not have begun, but which justifies all the sacrifices imposed on the peoples. Faced with the difficulties of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and families, attempts to establish a parallel between the present crisis and the one generated half a century ago by the oil shock, but forgets that in the 1970s, during the inflationary outbreak, the real wages increased while now decreasing and accelerated. The President of the European Commission acknowledges the existence of superlucres. The expression is from it and confirms that, after all, someone is winning with sanctions and war, and even suggests a tribute — temporary and limited, you see! — but does not call into question the rules for the operation of the liberalised market, which has made them viable, from time to time and not only now. There is nothing useful about the equally superfluous food distribution and other sectors that are always growing with crises as well as does not question the policy of the European Central Bank, keeping silent as to the galloping rise in interest rates, which are deeply detrimental to the lives of families, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and economies of the peripheral States of the South, such as Portugal, particularly with regard to debt charges. The President of the Commission stresses the intention of investment, but, contrary to the expectation of reform of the Stability and Growth Pact, it is essentially limited to supporting the German position: we do not expect flexibility in the budgetary rules. The idea of greater fixation in the criterion of expenditure is clear. However, the ECB's unwarranted and dangerous monetary policy represents a real obstacle to investment. Finally, Mr. President, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the government point out the worrying hunt for witches, the theory of the external enemy, by the visas installed among us, and — I will quote — the 'hidden foreign influence', as by opening up doors to new attacks on rights, freedoms and guarantees and hence democracy. They will not fail to have the necessary answer. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u171	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u172	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State : Do you want a portrait of the state of the European Union? Well, put your eyes on Italy. It wasn't the war, it was two decades... [[CH protests.]] ...a dangerous beating of economic liberalism and European technocracy. The PS is so embroiled in the fiction of a European Union of progress and human rights that it does not want to see which matter is made the fuel that feeds the opportunism of the extreme right. [[CH protests.]] What results did the European Union expect when it imposed its market logic on the social forms of organisation of national economies? What did the European Union expect to achieve with the imposition of policies of austerity, asphyxiation of the social state and dismantling of social and labour protection? What results did the European Union expect to achieve when it made us all servants of inevitability and external rules? Do you want to invest in national production? The European Commission does not leave. You want to move to work law? The Commission does not see it with good eyes. Do you want to lower VAT (value added tax)? The European Commission must authorise it. Mr. Secretary of State, in democracy, the discredit of politics is proportional to the lack of prospect of change. When hope is banned in a better country, what remains is hatred, resentment and envy. What results did the European Union expect, when it created Frontex and when it negotiated with Libya and Turkey the arrest of refugees in genuine concentration camps? The European Union accepted the terms of the debate with the extreme right, tolerated its presence, provided it was obedient to an economic liberalism programme,... [[Protests by CH Member Diogo Pacheco de Amorim.]] ... and is dedicated to dropping one by one the clauses of the post-war social contract, which guarantee the true security of the European population: education, health, housing, labour stability, hope that tomorrow's life will be better than yesterday's. The European Union has replaced the "we" of the social organization by the individualist jargon of competitiveness and individualism and all that is left to present as a trophy is a unity forced by war and external threat. Those who think that the European Union is a brake on zombies of the last century are wrong. The European Union creates the inequalities, despair and discontent that feed the dead. Europe now has an opportunity to make everything worse. If the European Union insists on punishing people with higher interest rates and lower wages in the face of inflation caused by the supply side, it will once again be choosing dogma against the interests of the peoples of Europe. It is not inevitable that this should be the case. The truth is, in the face of difficulties, the European Union has already used us to take decisive steps forward. Therefore, the Secretary of State will not be surprised that we do not share his optimism regarding future decisions that the European Union will make. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u173	For an intervention on behalf of the NAP, you have the floor of Mrs De Inês Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Secretary of State : It is not unusual to hear, even with some enthusiasm, Mr. Secretary of State speaking in relation to the statements by the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen. I say this because, then, it is a bit contradictory that the government shows so much resistance to one of the most auspicious aspects of Ursula von der Leyen's speech, which aims precisely to create the rate on extraordinary profits. In fact, or the government wants to continue to hand over to the entities that pollute and profit the most, or, then, the time has come for, as we have long complained, to extend the hand to small and medium-sized enterprises and families, which are being completely strangled by rising inflation and also by the tax burden of our country. Moreover, we must not forget that there has to be a strategy from the point of view of energy sovereignty, not only nationally but also Europeanly. The energy transition can, and should, be one of the great allies of war. It is important that we are not dependent on China instead of being dependent on Russia. We must be dependent on ourselves, and it is essential for them to support energy communities through the Environment Fund — which has been a dimension that has been left out of the government package in this area — and, above all, that once and for all end the lobby of the polluting industry and its prevalence. currently EDP ( Energies of Portugal ) will have more than EUR 611 million of net profit, which is more than 22, 9 % last year. On the other hand, he paid less — I repeat, he paid less! — 8, 8 % of taxes than in the previous year. Galp goes the same way, although he does not have this tax reduction. After paying the taxes, it will have EUR 713 million in profits. So we continue here with the so-called'measure package' to support families, even in contrast to the ambition of the European Union. Mr Secretary of State, for when is a speech aligned with Mr. President Ursula von der Leyen?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u175	For an intervention, Mr Rui Tavares has now given the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, Secretary of State : It was not for lack of warning. Some 10 years ago, in Budapest, the Hungarian Government, on Friday afternoon, when Parliament had already gone on weekends, handed over a law amending the Hungarian electoral law. The following week that law was passed. From there there were no more free and fair elections in Hungary, which was recognized by the OSCE ( Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe ), Freedom House and all organizations monitoring this situation. It was not for lack of warning that on 15 September the European Parliament, by a two-thirds majority — indeed, a three-quarter majority! — voted that Hungary was no longer a full democracy. Everything else in the European Union is solved, or it is a technical problem, or it is a logistical problem or it is a problem that needs new legislation. However, if the European Union ceases to be a club of democracies to have a state which directly undermines the values and objectives of the Union, this is not resolved. It's an existential problem. What did the government do or do? This is the big question. In fact, it is extraordinary that the government, the party that supports the government and the major party of the opposition have spoken here and have not mentioned this issue. Your fellow Members of the European Parliament, the PS and the PSD have voted on all the text to say that a Member State of the European Union is no longer a democracy. Is this the subject "as a dog for the harvest"? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u177	What about the Free? You voted for what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u178	That's true, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen of arrive. Your friends on the far right did not, of course, vote on this. [[Protests by CH Member Rita Matias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u179	But you know what? They were in good company, because whoever voted with you was the PCP. They may not know, but they may be informed. [[CH protests.]] The question is that the Portuguese Government has two ways of action: or use Article 7. — it has, moreover, the right to seek allies to do so or to initiate Article 259. the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and to the Court of Justice of the European Union. You can do it on your own. The question is, why don't you?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u180	To close the debate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I now give the floor to the Secretary of State for European Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are many questions that have been raised and I will try to answer them as far as possible. Mrs Jamila Madeira refers to the reform of economic governance announced by the European Commission, which will present concrete proposals in October, and to the need to learn from the lessons of the pandemic and the response to the economic crisis resulting from the pandemic. That is exactly what we believe must be at stake and what we have called for is that in this reform of the rules of economic governance, there is the creation of a permanent stabilisation instrument to respond to future crises—possibly inspired by the SURE (Support for the Mitigation of Employment Risks and Emergency), which was a very successful mechanism that allowed the labour market to be held, even when the economy virtually stopped as a result of the virus—, the exploitation of other instruments and the resumption of a debate on the creation of budgetary capacity within the euro area. These are all the paths we want to explore, as part of this reform of economic governance. Mr Seguro Sanches referred to the issue of energy and, in particular, interlinkages. It is an absolutely central issue in European policy right now. And in our response to the situation created by the war in Ukraine and Russia's paralysing supply of energy raw materials to several Member States of the European Union, we have stressed that we want to be part of the European solution. We, Portugal, and Spain also, on the Iberian Peninsula, have an immense potential, at present, through our liquefied gas terminals and, in the future, through the capacity we have to produce green, clean and cheap hydrogen. With this, we want the European Union to be a gateway to Europe, and for that we need these interlinkages, as you well point out. Consequently, we have made this absolutely central issue in our intervention at European level. Yesterday, as you mentioned, I had the opportunity to go to Paris, to go to a meeting with my French counterpart on this topic of interconnections, particularly the interlinkages between Portugal, Spain and France - something which, you are right, is already discussed long ago and if we had already been put into practice we would not be in the situation in which we are today, we would be better equipped to respond to this Russian threat. Therefore, we have pointed out that there are a number of arguments which, if they made sense in the past, are making even more sense today. The political, economic and, above all, geostrategic argument to realize these interconnections, whether electricity or gas, is evident today. It was very positive that my French counterpart has said that France is available to revisit this issue, with new eyes, in view of what has been the Portugal procedure, of the arguments we have raised, such as Spain, and, above all, of the position of Germany, which has recently expressed much interest in this project. Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira of the PSD says she has listened very carefully to my speech and I thank you. Unfortunately, however, he did not take the consequences for his intervention, because he was limited to reading what had already been prepared and that nothing had to do with what I said there, in the initial speech. [[PSD protests.]] He's talking about ads, but I didn't make any ads at all. He's talking about propaganda, but I didn't do any propaganda at all. You're talking about an advertising agency, which is something I don't know where Mrs. Deputy went to get. The honourable Member spoke about things that had nothing to do with this debate and that had nothing to do with the state of the Union. [[PSD protests.]] I'd bring a ready schedule. That's propaganda! He came to spread his ideas, regardless of what was being discussed here. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member is talking about the application of funds. We are very comfortable, we have one of the best execution rates for the PT2020,... [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u182	... we are not late, contrary to what it says, in the implementation of the RPP and, on support for companies, by 2030 we will have between the RPP and PT2030, EUR 11 billion to finance business projects. It is only 90 % more than we had in the previous financial framework, Madam Member! [[PSD protests.]] Mr Sérgio Marques commends the presence and leadership of the President of the European Commission in his speech. I can't agree anymore. Indeed, as I said in my initial speech, the fact that the speech has been centered on the war that Russia is carrying out in Ukrainian territory and on the need for the European Union to have a united and supportive response to this threat and to have a coherent and leadership position is undoubtedly the right way and, fortunately, we have had this demonstration in the European Parliament, by the President of the European Commission. Mr. Pedro Pessanha, from the Czech Republic, speaks of the Strategic compass and says that Portugal is not interested or is not relevant to the Strategic compass. Sir, there's nothing more wrong! We have participated actively in the construction of this Strategic compass and are actively engaged in its implementation. As regards defence at European level we are part of permanent structured cooperation, we support the European Peace Support Mechanism and, as we know, in a spirit of solidarity, we have made several consignments of military material to Ukraine. Therefore, we are fully committed to this agenda. Mr. Diogo Pacheco de Amorim portrays a vision of the European Union which is clearly not ours and, finally, that I cannot simply share. And he talks about nuclear, which is another bet that I can't share either. Honestly, there are totally different views that separate us in this matter. Mr Bernardo Blanco, of the Liberal Initiative, referred to Hungary, as Mr Rui Tavares of the Livre. As regards Hungary, what is currently on the agenda is the conditionality regime and the decision that the European Commission has taken to propose a suspension of funds in this area, on which there will have to be a Council decision in the coming months. Hungary, on the basis of this proposal from the European Commission, has committed itself to a set of remedies, a set of actions aimed at correcting the problems identified by the European Commission and therefore the point we have made, and - personally, even recently, with my Hungarian counterpart - is what it is necessary to implement these commitments which Hungary has now taken. Hungary has made commitments to respond to the issues raised by the European Commission in the context of the conditionality process and this needs to be implemented. It is not enough to accept the compromise, we have to see its materialisation and it is up to us whether or not it is the materialisation that we will decide and take a position in the Council on this matter. As for the list of associations linked to the Russian regime, I believe that this matter has been raised in different forums in this House and that it has already been the subject of response and clarification in 1. the Commission. As for lithium in Portugal, yes, it is a strategic bet of the country, but, finally, I do not have here the details of all these projects and their state of development. I believe that the Liberal Initiative will have the opportunity to raise the issue with the Ministries of Economics and the Environment and get these clarifications. As for Mr Alfredo Maia of the CFP, he said that the President of the European Commission did not question the rules on the liberalised energy market, but precisely the President of the European Commission announced — finally, in our view! — that the rules of the electricity market are no longer fit for purpose, are no longer suitable for the present reality and need to be structurally reviewed. This is, frankly, something that makes us happy, because it is the recognition of something we have been systematically referring to for many months that is the need to structurally reform the way in which the market is built, namely the mechanism for marginalizing the price of electricity, which is no longer meaningful today.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u183	Mr. Secretary of State, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u184	Mr President, I will hurry and conclude quickly. As for Mrs Mariana Mortágua, she seemed to say, or even said, that the fault of what happened in Italy in these elections is that of the European Union. Mrs. Member, I couldn't be in any more disagreement!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u185	And whose fault is it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u186	It was the European Union that built the SURE programme, which enabled employment to be secure; it was the European Union that, in response to the pandemic crisis, approved the Next Generation EU, of which Italy is indeed the largest beneficiary; it was the European Union that advanced to a joint package of vaccines; it was the European Union that had a solid response to the pandemic, which allowed us to be in a much better situation than we would be in if there had not been that European response.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u187	But whose fault is it? It's her fault, and you defend her!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u188	As for Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, I believe that there is a factual delay in her speech because Portugal supports the proposal to create an extraordinary contribution on the profits of fuel companies and that will be the position we will take in the Extraordinary Energy Council on Friday. Portugal is therefore in favour of this measure and supports it, is neither against nor against any resistance.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u189	You really have to conclude, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u190	In conclusion, Mr President, since I had already referred to Mr Rui Tavares and to the question of Hungary. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u191	We thus conclude point 2 of our agenda. We move on to point 3, which is part of the debate on the progress report on government activity under Article 226. the Rules of Procedure. To open the debate, you have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members :I reaffirm what I have said just now, that a strong and healthy democracy is a democracy with mechanisms to control and control the various bodies of power. The democratic government is only strengthened by the contradiction, by the debate of ideas, by the scrutiny which, I continue to underline, must be done in the House of Democracy. This type of debate, which is a scrutiny of government activity, represents an evolution in Parliament's ability to monitor, and this is the only second debate of this nature. It is undoubtedly an invaluable contribution to the robustness and transparency of democracy and government work. We need to underline this, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate is not about the last six months, but about the last two legislative sessions of the previous Parliament. In other words, what brings us here today is the scrutiny of the previous government activity, which, for obvious reasons, has not been done, but here I am, with all transparency, doing so. It is therefore important to move on to numbers. On the regulation of laws, 194 laws were adopted at the legislative sessions I spoke about, of which 91 % are already regulated. This means that only 9 % were not regulated within the time limit at the time of production of this report, but that must be done. On the questions and demands of the honourable Members. Members of the Government, from September 2020 to March 2022, were asked 3,275 questions, 79 % of which were already answered by the Government. It should be noted that the number of replies is updated in relation to the data in the report we are discussing, including the replies given by the Government until last week. It is also important to note that this methodology is more transparent, because the fact is that by not passing the questions or the demands, this Government, the XXIII Constitutional Government, continues to answer the questions sent by the honourable Members. Members of the previous Parliament. They are concerned, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, of about 200 questions per month. As regards the applications, 263 were submitted during the same period, and the Government has already responded to 84 % of them. I would like to underline the Government's commitment to continuing this work to meet all the clarifications that you have. Ladies and gentlemen, please. The Assembly of the Republic also gave 304 recommendations through resolutions, most of which had political translation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u193	That's what you say! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u194	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government has always taken its stand, to be available for dialogue with parliamentary groups and, in this regard too, for debates and for all hearings. The Assembly of the Republic is in full operation whenever it recommends something to the Government and the Government is in full operation whenever it exercises its power in a responsible and coherent manner. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I do not think it was a correct exercise to compare response rates between legislative sessions, especially when we report to the previous Parliament, given that the legislative sessions we are examining today took place in an atypical and exceptional period, I think, marked by the pandemic and by the dissolution of the Assembly, not because the evolution is negative - it is not! - but because the respect I have for this House compels me to this transparency. With regard to the presence of members of the Government in this House, I must say that, even with the pandemic, and above all in pandemics, the Government was present 687 times in committees and 588 times in plenary sessions, which represents two members of the Government, per day, in the Assembly of the Republic. Already in this Parliament, there are 219 presences of government members in committees and 270 in plenary. This means that it is this time that 97 government members per month in this House, as is their duty, to do what is our function, which I believe leads to a lot of arguments—in fact, some of them have been raised for a few moments—unmatched with reality. So I'll be back, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what I think is essential and that it is, rather than being massacred with numbers, forgive me - this expression - to respect Parliament, that is, we will be available in the government for scrutiny, for hearings, for requests, for questions that are asked, for draft resolutions, for the regulation of laws, which must be made. It is, at the bottom, ladies and gentlemen. Members, watch for what is most essential in the lives of Portuguese, democracy, freedoms, their rights and the separation of powers which fulfil a democratic rule of law. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Members and by CH Member Pedro Pinto.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u195	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD, Mr Joaquim Pinto Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u196	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister : I do not underestimate the formal relevance of this assessment, and even less the importance of voting on the government's activity, the fact is that the reports in question report to the previous Parliament and political appraisal were widely carried out, through popular expression, in the elections of 30 January. It is therefore an extemporaneous exercise that we are discussing a political mandate that is concluded, appreciated and voted on by the voters. The reading of the data included in the reports relating to the previous Legislative Session allows, however, to record an obvious and progressive lack of democratic culture of the Socialist Executive, particularly in the relationship established with the Assembly of the Republic. [[PSD applause.]] It is noteworthy, for example, the inclination for the absence and refusal of reply to Members, given that almost 40 % of questions and requests made by members of this House are still to be clarified.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u197	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u198	at this point in particular, there are real champions of the flight to the polling station, such as the former Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education Manuel Heitor, who did not answer 93% of the questions that were put to him.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u199	It's a science!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u200	Or the former Minister of Culture with a non-response rate of 88 %, and the former Minister of Education with 87 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u201	It's the lack of her!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u202	In the same vein, there is the most absolute indifference to the Rules of Procedure, which calls on the Government to respond in'reasonable time' to questions on 'any acts' by itself. Like inconsistencies and, because you do not say so, the legislative inconsistencies resulting from the fact that we have 86 laws which are to be regulated. In practice, government activity monitoring reports during the XIV legislature had already reported strong symptoms of a disease that had been manifested, in acute state, after the legislative elections,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u203	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u204	... that of the manifest aversion to the parliamentary debate, to the confrontation of opinions and to the accountability before the representatives of the Portuguese people.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u205	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u206	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In just six months, during the XV legislature, this behavior has reached truly regrettable standards. The Socialist majority prevented the presence of seven ministers in this House. Not one, not two, not three, but seven vet auditions...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u207	Eight!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u208	Yes, eight... [[PSD applause.]] ... in what can be described as an insult to representative democracy and the normal functioning of sovereign institutions and bodies.The recent case with the Minister of Defence is paradigmatic. in a matter of national security, such as the sale in the dark web of classified documents on NATO, its presence in Parliament at the closed door was refused, preventing the fundamental clarification of Members on an issue that seriously affects the international credibility of the Portuguese State. In addition, in the last two weeks alone — in the last two weeks, I repeat — several ministers have missed the call made by this House in relevant matters on the areas they protect and were being discussed in plenary. In particular, I refer to the Ministers of Internal Administration and Agriculture, who protect forests, in the debate on failures in preventing and combating fires this summer; the Minister of Agriculture, in the matter of the land bank and land mobilization fund; the Minister of Justice, in the discussion on the Single Contact Point for International Political Cooperation; the Ministers of Finance, Economics and the Sea and Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, on social emergency programmes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u209	And others!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u210	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are facing a sequence that certainly does not embarrass the leaders of the Socialist Party — anointed ones who feel that they are owned by the State and the institutions — but that it is certainly important to denounce and fight in this forum, with all the legitimacy and means that, fortunately, democracy guarantees. This is the majority who, assured Mr. Prime Minister on the election night of January 30, would not become an absolute power. After eight months, it has been found that this statement has not changed from mere rhetoric, certainly delivered with more opportunism than conviction, knowing that this is not the way the Socialist Party appreciates governing. For the PSD, the balance sheet we consider appropriate is on the current Legislative Session and on a government that gives clear signs of democratic intolerance, abuse of power and disrespect for other sovereignty agencies. A majority who disregards the role of this House, preventing it from fully playing its role in monitoring and monitoring government activity; a majority who contributes to the disqualification of institutions, to the loss of public confidence, in short, to a more fragile and poorer democracy. This is the mark of the PS in six months of governance, which makes us fear the worst for the remaining years of legislation. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u211	It's only three and a half years away!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u212	To speak on behalf of the Arrival, Mr Pedro Frazão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u213	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs: This debate on the progress report on the government's activity should be a monitoring of its activity and therefore the Government should take account of it. But it seems clear to us that democracy is automatically compromised when the government does not accept to come to 15-year debates and, at the same time, permanently vetoes the third largest parliamentary bench, constantly discriminating free voting and in universal elections, the Portuguese vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u214	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u215	The current government is living very badly with the scrutiny and independence of sovereignty agencies, supervisory bodies and regulatory entities, but it is well associated with the privileges that feed the powerful families of the PS. The arrival made a commitment to the Portuguese, especially in the fight against the vices of the system and in the defence and improvement of the democratic system. The conclusions of this report and the action of the Government can only merit our refusal, rejection and even challenge. We cannot fail to observe the very weak political sequence given by the Government to the resolutions of the Assembly of the Republic. At 1. a and 2. the Legislative Sessions we see a 13 % percentage of questions to the government that are not answered and of demands that are dragged without any consequences. In 3rd. The Legislative Session — stop! — about 40 % of the requests and questions remained unanswered. More seriously, no information has been provided to the Assembly of the Republic for the correct assessment of public policies and for the Government's scrutiny. Among these statements, we list only the following. First: on tax benefits, the report on tax benefits granted, including analysis with the identification and evaluation of costs and results effectively obtained, was not received. This report, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is crucial to examine the wastes of the public record. Secondly, although there is an obligation to send an annual report to this House of the Republic, the same has never been referred. thus, it is not known today, in this House, that surveys are conducted by entities accredited in the High Authority for Social Communication or, even if they obey the suitability set out in the law. Third : on cultural heritage, with a 2001 law, no report on the state of cultural heritage in Portugal has so far been received in the Assembly of the Republic. Fourth : as regards the removal of asbestos from public buildings, the Government should make known a list of public buildings containing asbestos and has not done so, endangering the safety of public officials, students from schools, teachers, assistants, and often without their own suspicion of the existing danger. Fifth: on the planning and management of the national maritime area, we also have no report on the maritime environment. Sixth : to report the simplification of the tax obligations of microenterprises was also produced nothing. Seventh : on the housing of the Portuguese, the Government, through the Institute for Housing and Urban Rehabilitation, remained to submit to this House an implementation report on Programme 1. The law, but it never happened. These, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Minister, are only seven of the huge gaps in parliamentaryism in 2022. thus, the ‘most brute’ follows forward, approves outdated phantom laws of reality, which serve only to wrap up the national legal labyrinth more and more. Indeed, it is not enough that it is populist; this government is populist! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u216	To intervene, on behalf of the Left Block, Mr José Soeiro now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u217	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : These reports we are discussing here today are important and useful to take stock of what happened in the legislature. And in the XIV Parliament, it is important to realize that part of the government's supervision by Parliament was to be done, for lack of a response. The numbers are identified: about 39 % of questions have been answered, with particular incidence in some ministries. It is clear from these reports that we have already verified: many of the programmatic rules of the State budgets — particularly in the previous legislation — that the Socialist Party has specialized in studying, pondering, densifying, thinking, reflecting, reviewing, densifying, have been put into practice. These are commitments that were made with the country, which were announced and which, after that, have never been realized, in many areas, and many of them are identified there.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u218	You were with them! They were together!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u219	We also know — it is not a problem right now — that Parliament often approves laws that the government has to regulate and that they are not then regulated. In fact, many of the aspects of some of them are not regulated. So we have 86 laws to regulate, and some lack of regulation are real boycotts to the law. For example, we have made the status of caregivers in this Parliament and there were 120 days to regulate labour rights and the right to rest. We're talking about a law that's years old! The Government had 120 days — indeed, it was the government that proposed 120 days for regulation — but, over the years, there are no labour rights or the right to rest for the caregiver because this was not regulated. And not regulation is a way of boycotting what the law provides and boycotting people's rights. But if this was so in the previous Parliament, this Parliament has changed qualitatively, because in this Parliament we are seeing what is the exercise of absolute power by the Socialist Party. It has already been said that the Socialist Party — and the Minister has particular responsibility for her duties — has sought to prevent Parliament's vote on the government, to prevent the coming of governors to the committees, in a purely absolute exercise of power, in which often the coming of ministers with arguments, in fact, completely unjustifiable. Minister Marta Temido could not come because he was leaving; Minister Manuel Pizarro cannot come because he is coming in; Minister of Culture Pedro Adam and Silva cannot be given clarification to Parliament about what he is going to do with the Colosseum of the Port because he has nothing to explain to Parliament; the Minister of Higher Education cannot come to Parliament to explain what is happening with the student residences, and therefore the hearing of the Minister, such as that of the Minister of Infrastructure, is plummeted... It's eight ministers! There are eight ministers who have already been prevented from coming to Parliament and who the Members would like to hear, and this is a way of preventing the vote and is an absolute form of exercise of power. In fact, Mrs Minister, this often requires Members of the Socialist Party to play sad roles in the committees, because it is also confusing what they often say without arguments, only because the Minister tells them that this minister cannot come to the committee. This is overwhelming and prevents Parliament from performing one of its fundamental democratic functions, which is to scrutinize the action of the Executive. We will have the opportunity to discuss here a report on this legislation, but we already understand how power — and the relationship between the government and Parliament — has been exercised in the first six months. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u220	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva, of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u221	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members: We are here today for another « cotton test » in relation to the management of the governments of Antonio Costa. Today, the results of the government's monitoring reports are those that were expected of these socialist governments, in particular the proof that they like to "pulse with the belly" or that they have almost nothing to clarify and run away from the answers. Let us see how 'they push the belly' in the lack of rigour with which the Government regulates the laws: of the 122 partially regulated and unregulated laws, 93 are out of date, i.e. about 76 %. The disillusionment of the PS governments is such that only in the Committee on Budgets and Finance are two proposals from the Government under discussion for the transposition of five European directives, and we are, there, one of the last European countries to make such transpositions. And by confirming the profile of a government that does not respond — curiously, the title of an article I wrote in 2020, exactly on this subject, which shows that the PS does not learn and that history repeats — we will now look only for the last Legislative Session. of the 488 questions sent by Members — excluding 6 who have been withdrawn or returned — 63 are within the time limit. of the remaining, the Government did not respond to 193. Obviously, it did not answer 40 % of the questions asked. But were all the others answered in time and time? Of course not, far from it. of the remaining 226 questions, the Government has not answered within the period of 118. Conclusion: more than half had an answer already out of time. And in the demands of the Government — just looking at these reports — of the 25 facts, 11 remained to be answered; in total, only 7 had a response and only 3 of them had an answer within the deadline. All this is bad. There is, however, even worse: much of what the government deserves to respond to is in line with that child logic of the « switch to another rather than to the same ». This is what happened, for example, with the Minister of Finance in 2020, with several questions on fees, which he answered several times by saying « that is with that Minister ; that is with that Minister ; that is with that Minister ». Therefore, the Minister of Finance knows nothing about fees. Or when we tried to ask questions about Child and Youth Protection Committees, and even were sent to the then Ministers of Justice, Presidency and Labour, Solidarity and Social Security. The first, even though there have been courts involved in this matter, said, and I quote, "the underlying matter is strange to the powers and powers of the Ministry of Justice"; the second referred to the third; and the third did not respond. All this in the previous Legislation, even before the absolute majority. But this government does not only treat Members like this — allow me to extend the scope of analysis, so does the press. Just see one news this week: the Ministry of Internal Administration, questioned about how many fire refugees in the Greek island of Lesbos still live in Portugal, « pass the ball » to the Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs. And what does the Minister for Parliamentary Affairs do? Returns to the Ministry of Internal Administration. in this government pong-pong, no one answered. The Government does not distinguish between parliamentary and journalistic elections. Both are treated with contempt and arrogance. But there are other leaks of scrutiny in Parliament and so far mentioned. In recent months, the PS has prevented the hearing of eight ministers in the Assembly of the Republic, such as the Minister of Infrastructure, on the issue of the airport and still today the Minister of Health, on the report on the closure of maternity, or - let us remember - the case of public funding to a research centre of the ISCTE (Institut Universitário de Lisboa ), when the coming of the former Minister Manuel Heitor, who was the only one who could make the contradiction to former Minister João León. That's why there's a blockade...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u222	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u223	There is much to say about this, about this dubious art of running away from government questions, and I conclude, Mr President, saying that every time they swear transparency, they lack the truth, every time they announce dialogue, they reinforce the monologue, every time they guarantee not to turn the absolute majority into absolute power, there comes the compressor roll. We need scrutiny, because what is today a harmful temptation becomes an even greater threat tomorrow. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u224	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Inês Sousa Real, of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u225	Mr President, Madam Minister : The absolute majority cannot and should not be a synonym for absolute power or a back government aimed at the Assembly of the Republic. As has already been said today, in fact, there are numerous demands and questions that remain unanswered. In our accounts, there were 4 in every 10, the Minister mentioned 3 in every 10, but the fact is that, even for the full clarification of fundamental matters—and even today we have just seen another request by the Minister of Justice to be rejected, with regard to the transfer of powers and the creation of the single entity of the matters of the Judicial Police and Interpol— irrespective of what is in question and of the scrutiny that is necessary, the Government would also have to gain from being an open government for this House of the Republic and for those outside our work. That is why it is incomprehensible, on the one hand, that the Government will continue to turn its backs whenever we ask someone to be heard in the Assembly of the Republic and, on the other hand, that in addition to already being a bad student in terms of implementing the European funds, it is now also in terms of fulfilling the initiatives that it can take in the Assembly of the Republic. Otherwise, let us see: in the State budgets for 2020, 2021 and now 2022, where are the animal protection orders, for example? Nor should we be given an answer when we question its implementation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u226	It's not worth it! That's not a question either!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u227	With regard to matters as relevant as that of the Strategic Environmental Assessment of the airport, approved by this Assembly, we also continue to wait. In the State budget for 2020, the exemption from VAT was proposed for activities carried out by psychologists. The AT (Tributary Authority ) has already put this measure in the drawer and the government, of whom a pronunciation was expected, said nothing until today. More: there is the law of the right to forgetfulness, a fundamental matter for the dignity of people with cancer. What did the government do? It's not settled either. The examples could continue to be given here in the future, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u228	But you have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u229	I really am concluding, Mr President. So for when a government does not turn its back on the Assembly of the Republic, but effectively commit itself to its duty to be participative and open, with our cooperation and cooperation here in the Assembly of the Republic?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u230	To speak on behalf of the Free Party, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u231	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister : These reports correspond, in most cases, to a period in which the Book had no parliamentary representation, but they do not allow us to rest, at all, in a period when the Book has recovered the parliamentary representation. Moreover, these reports correspond to a period in which the Government depended on Parliament in a way that does not now depend, because it needed other parliamentary groups to form its majority and now has an absolute majority. So if these numbers and reports are an example of something, we should be very concerned about what's coming here. The Minister said she didn't want to slaughter us here with numbers, but my call is: massacre at will, at numbers, at implementation, at regulation, at answers to the questions that Parliament is asking... We endure! The question is more on the contrary: we ask for it and it is not enough. From Budget to Budget, there are essential measures and problems that accumulate and worsen and that have not been answered. Many examples have already been given and together one more to the list: the replacement of subcontracting of companies, in the field of health, by health professionals is recurrent in all State budgets and always expires, but, if it had resolved, we would not have had the problems we had. So there is a basic question for all of this: what can be changed, structurally, that needs, even, the cooperation of this Parliament, so that things stop happening like this? But a first step must be taken by the government, because if not, we are all working to warm up and deceive people, who are watching us work to warm up.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u232	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias, of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u233	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister : There is a previous remark that I think it is right to do at this stage, which has to do with the good decision taken by the Assembly of the Republic when starting this work on the preparation and analysis of progress reports on the scrutiny of government activity. It was a good decision and it is a good job that we should value and greet, even the services of the Assembly of the Republic and of the parliamentary officials. I give here an example, which is the specific case of the Information Report to be given to the Assembly of the Republic, within the framework of the approval of the laws of the RA and the Decrees-Laws of the Government », in which there is an important, enlightening and useful work for citizenship, from the outset in the systematization and availability of the concrete elements in access to information and to the reports themselves. This, of course, is when the reports exist, and here is the problem, because in most cases the duty of information has not been and is not met by the government. For more than two thirds of the information due, as provided for in the laws — the laws themselves which the Government approves point to information to be provided to the Assembly — it will be seen and will not be provided. On the other hand, also with regard to the regulation of laws, as has already been said, over the period under review, there are an unacceptable number of laws which are not regulated. And this translates into two situations: on the one hand, a true veto of drawers on the part of the government, to laws that have been passed, and have already been given examples here; on the other hand, I would say, in a practice of misleading advertising, sometimes resulting from proposals of law by the government itself, that the same, after that, does not regulate, being said for not saying or, rather, saying, being said for not doing so. So here too there is a sign of concern that we cannot help but arouse. As regards questions and demands, the answer is not a faculty of government, it is a constitutional and regulatory duty, as the name of the report itself indicates. But there is an unacceptable high number of government non-response throughout the legislature. In fact, we stress here that the data contained in the progress reports under review are data relating to the final phase of the previous legislation. during that time, there is an unacceptable number of questions and information requested by the Assembly to the Government that did not get an answer. Madam Minister, we agreed that it was not the pandemic that started this problem. Unfortunately, it was not at that time of the atypical moments and the complicated phases that the problem began, it already comes from behind. It should be noted that even the figures may not accurately reflect the true situation of government disrespect by this sovereignty body, which is the Assembly of the Republic, particularly when, in the overwhelming majority of replies sent, for example by the Minister of Labour, the practice of telling the Assembly of the Republic that, as regards what is happening in the company such or such, where workers' rights are attacked, was made known to the Act (Work Conditions Authority). Thank you. So, the Government's response is that it informed the ACT about the problem of the attack on rights in that company, which PCP Members put? Oh, my God! And then nothing else is said to the Assembly of the Republic? Oh, my God! The question was formally answered, but it is an authentic disrespect that is at issue. The situation in this legislature, with the absolute majority, will certainly translate into a more worrisome and unworthy portrait of what is now happening. We will certainly discuss this in the reports which will be considered in the Assembly of the Republic for a year. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u234	You now have the floor for an intervention by the Socialist Party, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u235	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister : I began by seeking to focus the debate on what is, indeed, the discussion on the report of the activity and scrutiny of the XIV Legislation and, at the same time, although I do not think it is indispensable, I would also talk about a few timetables. The calendar we have, the Gregorian calendar, begins in year 1 and brings us to 2022 ; the Islamic calendar begins with a date for 1444 years ; and the Jewish calendar, this month, celebrates the year of 5783 — Shana tová, to whom it is celebrating! But this report does not begin to report the world as if it had started two years ago. It must be borne in mind that today we have a parliamentary debate on the report, but there were reports before there was parliamentary debate and it was interesting, more than just looking at these figures as if they were static and how they revealed a reality that does not change and that does not improve, that we had taken into account, for example, what the data were before there was parliamentary debate. It was just the second time we did. But if we go back to the XII Legislation, and look, now, at the PSD bench, which so loudly accused and pointed the finger to those who did not answer questions and demands and to those who did not regulate the laws in time, in the XII Legislation...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u236	We're not seeing who's the worst, Mr. Deputies!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u237	It is not to see who the worst is, Mr, to see whether or not there is evolution. It is to see if, in relation to the numbers of the XII Legislation, when we are looking at those of the XIV Legislation, there has been an improvement or not. And in 3039 questions relating to the XII Legislation, the number of replies given was 48 %. Now, we are looking at a report that brings a figure of 91% to those that are now answered, and if we go down to the end of the Parliament it will be at 80% to go down to the end. That's twice as much, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u238	If we looked at the laws to be regulated, in the XII Legislation, there was a lack of regulation 45, in 243, i.e. about 19 %. Currently, the data we have is half, i.e., only 10 % missing regulation. So let us see the evolution, see if in these years measures taken in various government programmes, and even in the Assembly, to make this monitoring take effect or not. And the extent to which there is — and was included in the Better Legislative Programme, consisting of Simplegis, consisted of simplification measures and consists of the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers, which determines that, as a general rule, when a bill or a decree is adopted, its rules are as far as possible immediately adopted. Indeed, today we have more regulations adopted in time and also, at times — and the fineness of these numbers is that it could be scaled up in this debate, more than we take advantage of for proclamations — the idea that there is a lack of regulation is misleading. The law often provides for a safe period of 60 days to regulate it, but indeed in many cases the regulations that are in force continue to serve, because what is often the matter is to approve a form, and the old form remains sufficient; it is to define which is the responsible entity, and this does not lack the update of a particular port. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] So even the clearance of these numbers is a deliberate and not fascinating work, let us say, because it is being immersed in the state bureaucracy — and the Liberal Initiative, surely, will applaud this part of what I am saying, because it does not galvanize to have to do this fine to check whether the missing regulation is this or that — which is more complex than what appears to be.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u239	In fact, it's more complex, but there could be a little more ambition!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u240	And if we add to this, for example, resolutions with recommendations to the Government have a very useful theme to mix in this debate. And it's not useful in the following sense: in other cases, we're talking about legal obligations to answer questions and demands. I have no problem in saying, and on behalf of the Socialist Party, that a number like the one that the Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education had, 91% of missing answers, is scandalous. Let's take it! He failed the Socialist Party government, and that guardianship, because he did not respond on that scale. There is no difficulty in saying this! But this does not mean that "let the baby go out with the bath water" and that it is not recognized when there is an evolution, where it should be marked. [[PCP protests.]] But what I was saying, and I'm sorry, because I was drifting away, had to do with the political resolutions, and these are recommendations, have an eminently political heart. in this case, it is not the duty to answer a question from Parliament or even to regulate a law. To mix them in this debate is to confuse numbers a little bit. The same is true of legislative authorizations themselves, because it is a faculty for the government to use them, it is not an obligation for the government to have to legislate on these matters. Nevertheless, they are subjects that must be treated with another rigor and with difference. I have now heard Mr Pedro Frazão, from the Czech Republic, who noted the report in the absence of the High Authority for Social Communication. This entity was extinguished in 2006 and in any event its successor, the Regulatory Entity for Social Communication, is that it has to deliver the report in the Assembly of the Republic, it is not the Government. So, once again, we do not seem to be homesick, which do not really have to do with the content of this report. There are issues in which the government can be criticized: 10 % are missing here, 16 % are missing there, but 80 % are not missing and 90 % are not missing. Perhaps that should be the focus of the debate. Finally, a final note on something that is not part of this debate, but came to the colloquium, which is the presence of government members in Parliament. We can only look at the members of the government who did not come and say, 'there have not been seven, there have not been eight', but, if we take into account that, of the demands submitted, this represents 15 % of what in this Parliament — which is not the subject of the debate — was presented, perhaps, a clearer idea that obviously there is an assiduous presence of the members of the Government in the House, as yesterday we could see with the presence of the Minister of Internal Administration for four hearings at 1. the Commission, which was followed by another hearing by the Minister of Internal Administration on another topic this morning. We will not always agree to keep in mind, with the same urgency, the members of the Government in this Parliament, but try to pass on the idea that the eight who did not come are only those who were asked to do so is misleading. And, indeed, we have a legislation in front of us, during which — and with this end — there are still powers for parliamentary groups to be able to guarantee parliamentary scrutiny, which are the power rights. How many rights do you have? Have Members already used this Parliament at this Legislative Session to ensure this? Have your regiment rights been abrogated? They didn't! Finally, by noting something I have already said about the revision of the Rules of Procedure : the Socialist Party is opening up to increase the number of power rights for the coming of members of the Government to this Parliament, but clearly those already available have not even been used. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u241	To conclude this debate, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes has the floor of the Deputy Minister for Parliamentary Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u242	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the first point that we should stress, and which I would like to stress again, is the importance of having a report of this kind, which enables the Members. Members, and the country, understand how the scrutiny and supervision that you are carrying out is done. Members must make the government. The Government should, from this report and not only give Parliament an account of its activity and its relationship with Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not worth grasping just the numbers that we are interested in, because I can use them too. I can say, in fact, that...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u243	Aren't you going to repeat the numbers of the current Parliament? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u244	No, no, but I can use them, Mr. José Soeiro. And you know why? Because I find it unbelievable that the House first approved — in good time — the need to produce these reports, but then the honourable Members. Members from left to right, with the exception of the CFP, have managed to ignore that what we are discussing is the report of the last two legislative sessions of the previous Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u245	I mean him!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u246	If the gentlemen. Members want to be strict, so let us be strict about the numbers that I will repeat, yes, because in six months it was 270 times when government members were heard in committee. The gentlemen. Members prefer to speak of the last eight in which the members of the government did not come or whose hearings were dropped,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u247	Really!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u248	...but the members of the government are coming. Ministers, both at the statutory hearings and as a result of the requests made by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen present. As far as the requirements were concerned, 263 and 220 were submitted for reply, and 40. Still 40, it is true, but the others were answered. With regard to the regulation of laws, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, they can do the analysis they want, until exhaustion, but I advise them also to say that, of the 194 laws approved to be regulated, 175 are regulated, i.e. 91 % are regulated, 19 are by regulation. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as this evidence is concerned, what do you say? They say there comes the compressor roll of the absolute majority and the majority of the PS does not respect Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u249	What about the status of caregivers? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u250	The PS will respect, respect and dialogue with the honourable Members at all times. Ladies and gentlemen. I must also remember that the Government, at all times of the plenary, has always been represented to give the answers that are necessary. We will improve what needs to be improved, such as the speed of the answers to the questions of the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, or the speed of the responses to the demands, but we certainly do not confuse and, above all, we do not take advantage of an instrument to deepen Parliament's supervision of the government's activities, to deepen Parliament's relationship with the Government, to hold the government's accounts — once again — and to deepen our democracy in order to throw stones at democracy, when what we are doing is precisely respecting democratic institutions and to respond systematically and in due time to the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. I hope that in one year we can say that there are no 9 % laws to regulate, but that there are less, and that there are more questions answered, but we do not make an assessment as negative as it has been, because it is not fair for scrutiny and transparency of democratic life, and the Portuguese also deserve to know. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u251	At the conclusion of the third point of our agenda, we move on to the fourth point, which is that of the joint assessment of Petition No 622 / XIII / 4. a ( Platform Alentejo ) — Presentation of a set of priorities for the sustainable development of the Alentejo region and the Resolution Projects Nos108/XV/1.a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Portuguese Government the strategic environmental assessment of the new airport of Lisbon that affects various scenarios of location of airport responses, 118 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — By an integrated strategy of accessibility of the Alentejo as an instrument for promoting cohesion and territorial development and 150 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government invest in the East Line. To present the draft resolution of the NAP, you have the floor of Mrs Inês Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u252	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, I would like to welcome the petitioners and promoters of this initiative, the Alentejo Platform, and also thank the contributions sent to the Assembly of the Republic for more sustainable development, in a region of the country that is seriously threatened by the effects of the climate crisis we live, but also by the policies that have left the country under desertification and isolation. The NAP has alerted the serious problems affecting the Alentejo region and the urgent need of the Government to hear the warnings and concerns of the scientific community regarding the catastrophic effects of investment on intensive and superintensive agriculture in a region seriously threatened by drought and desertification. In addition, and in the context of the controversy related to the new airport of Lisbon, we always defend the option by Beja, thus prioritising territorial cohesion, the development of the region and the promotion of employability. The NAP argues that the Government must comply with what was approved in the State Budget Act for 2021, i.e. a strategic environmental assessment that affects the various assumptions for the location of airport responses, including necessarily the option by Beja, with the proper railway connection, which would allow for greater development of the region and territorial and social cohesion. We insist that options that leave the interior forgotten be abandoned, go beyond any outright omissions or even previous assessments of the viability of such construction. But, moreover, in the face of recent developments, the NAP understands that it is essential to think of the country as a whole and of that which has to be regional dispersion, because, regardless of the interests that may be at stake in the location of the new airport, the State Budget cannot serve other interests than the public interest and the realization of solutions that reconcile mobility, the preservation of natural heritage and adaptation to climate change, with all the challenges that this entails in our lives and future generations, and that do not forget, too, the generations of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u253	I use to greet the petitioners who are in the galleries, including the Alentejo Platform. To present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mr. João Dias, of the CFP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u254	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, allow me to greet the petitioners, the promoters and subscribers of the petition submitted by the Alentejo Platform, a petition that is quite fair in what brings to this House, and that we therefore greet and thank, above all, for aiming to defend an integrated strategy of sustainable accessibility of Alentejo in national and international links. The theme that this petition brings to this House is no novelty. Many resolutions have been adopted, but, in fact, we have not witnessed any investment in the life of that territory and of those people. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you a question. The gentlemen. Members are aware of what it is to live in a territory with virtually no accessibility, in a territory where the IP8 ( main route No 8 ) is one of the most emblematic road tracks, it is practically a goat road, where the complementary routes are virtually non-existent, where the interconnected roads between the municipalities are lacking intervention, where the railway is completely forgotten and closed, in which the airport is also forgotten and abandoned? Oh, my God! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you one more thing: do you know why these investments have not been made? Why haven't they been put into practice? I believe that the answer is one: because it is in Beja ; if it were in another territory, these investments would probably have already been made. What we have seen is that Beja and Alentejo are forgotten and therefore face difficulties in terms of population fixing and depopulation. Indeed, mobility conditions are crucial for development, not that we deserve, but that we are entitled to! That's what's at stake. Therefore, the CFP accompanies this petition with a draft resolution that aims to give priority to the implementation of an integrated strategy of accessibility in the Alentejo, based on rail, road and air transport as a tool for promoting territorial cohesion. In the railway, we defend the electrification and modernization of the entire Alentejo Line, in the links Casa Branca-Beja and Beja-Ourique to Funcheira, creating another alternative and other response capacity in that region. What we also defend is a road, with the conclusion of the IP8, with a mesh connecting to the International Airport of Beja ; with the connection of A6 ( motorway No 6 ) to A23 ( motorway No 23 ) between Estremoz and Portalegre ; with the completion of the works of IP2 ( main route No 2 ) in Évora ; with the completion of the variant of the IP2, in Beja ; with the construction of the road circulars of Estremoz, Évora, Montemor-o-Novo, Regminas de Monsaraz and Vendas Novas ; with the construction of IC33 ( additional route No 33 ), between Santiago do Cacém, Viana and Évora ; with the construction of the sections of the IC27 ( complementary route No 27 ), in connection between Alcoutim, Mértola and Albernoa ; with the construction of the ICémo4, itinário. Also on the airport side, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to take advantage of that airport, which has the capacity to expand, to take advantage of both the industrial aspect and the maintenance aspect, whether the parking area or the passenger side. It is not admitted that that airport, which is a value for that territory, for those people, but also for all national, is abandoned, forgotten and left in the hands of Vinci, who, before defending the interest of the population, defends their interests, the profitable interests of the company representing the French multinational Vinci. This is where one of the obstacles to the development of that airport, but I would also say, in the lack of political will... but it is not a lack of political will, precisely, the political will not to bet on that airport or the territory in question. And the fault lies with successive PS, PSD and CDS governments that have turned their backs on us. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u255	To present the PS draft resolution, Mr. Eduardo Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u256	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: As Miguel Torga wrote, the Alentejo is « earth of the color of the eyes of those who look! Do not keep on seeking. ” To our right, we have looked at the Alentejo with a sheet of Excel in our hands and through a rule of three simple, in which we have looked at the railway, our courts, our public services and our parish as being more rights. On our left, look, but ignore. Important achievements, such as the Pisão dam, have been ignored...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u257	Which one? Oh, my God! Where's Pisão's dam? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u258	Where is he?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u259	... or like that of the new GNR school, which will be built in the Town Hall of Portalegre and whose public contest already runs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u260	It's gonna be, it's gonna be, it's gonna be! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u261	The new opportunities that we are finally seeing on the other side of the border in Spain are ignored with the international bridge over the Sever River, between Nisa and the Spanish Extremadura, or with the largest rail investment of the last 100 years, which links Sines to the border of Caia.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u262	League? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u263	It is ignored the High Alentejo that today resists, reinvents and innovates...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u264	Where is that part of the Alentejo? Oh, my God! In Badajoz? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u265	...and that, therefore, can already export drones from Ponte de Sor to the world and will be able to build the first light Portuguese aircraft. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why we look at the color of the eyes of those who feel, of those who live and of those who believe in the Upper Alentejo today that we present this initiative to invest in the East Line, to increase the number of times—and the Government has already assumed the political commitment that, from 1 October, there will be another time on the East Line—to increase frequency and adjust it to the needs of the populations, to electrify the line and to approach the district capital, the city of Portalegre, the railway, because the Upper Alentejo cannot miss the train of sustainable mobility. in this debate, if there is a place where the Alentejo of yesterday, the Alentejo we went, can meet with the Alentejo of today, with the Alentejo that we are, this place is, above all, the Alentejo of tomorrow, the Alentejo that we want to be, the Alentejo where the PS is carrying out an important cycle of investments to build. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u266	How many years ago? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u267	Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u268	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by thanking the petitioners for bringing this issue here, which, for me, is extremely important, is one of the main issues of today and goes far beyond the problems of the Alentejo region. We often talk about macro variables, about the country's delay as a whole, forgetting that this country lives at various speeds. To understand the dimension of regional inequality in this country, we can look at the data of 2019, before the pandemic, when the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon had a GDP per capita somewhere between the level of Italy and Finland, so at the level of some of the richest countries of the European Union, while the Alentejo was at the level of Hungary and the north of the country was at the level of Romania. If we were to exclude the coastlines of these two regions, comparisons would be even worse. Perhaps we would not find countries in the European Union that had GDP per capita at the internal level of these regions. We arrive from the center of Lisbon to Alentejo in less than 1 hour, we arrive from the center of Lisbon to the north of the country in less than 2 hours, but, economically, it is as if we crossed Europe all, from Finland to Romania. This is the economic path that we make when we cross the country, from Lisbon to the Alentejo or from Lisbon to the north of the country. For weeks now the idea that one of the ways to combat housing problems in Lisbon would be to promote the interior, ensuring that more people had opportunities outside the capital. The way these proposals are dealt with then has an effect on the way the State, as a whole, takes its decisions. Recently, the Directorate-General for Administration and Public Employment (DGAEP) announced a program of internships with around 1600 vacancies. More than half of these vacancies went to the Lisbon district. The districts of Portalegre, Évora and Beja, together, have less than one tenth of the stages allocated only to the district of Lisbon. Now, these options have consequences and one of them is a dual country, overcrowded in Lisbon and deserted in the rest, with all that bad things bring to both regions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u269	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u270	I would once again like to thank the petitioners for bringing this issue, which is extremely important. I will not have time to evaluate all the proposals put forward, but I am very grateful, because this is one of the most important issues of our current reality. What more petitions these bloom, coming from more regions of the country! [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u271	Mr Pedro do Carmo, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u272	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We welcome the Alentejo Platform, the civic promoter of this petition in defense of the sustainable development of the region, for the initiative to bring the Alentejo to debate in the Assembly of the Republic. Civic mobilization, participation and interest on the subjects of individual and community experiences are always important and must be valued. It is good to have voices from the territory that join other voices, together with the central power, with an affirmative sense, in building paths to respond to the accumulated liabilities,... [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] ... the realities of the present and the challenges of the future, from sustainability to climate change. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the challenges are enormous in the interior, in the rural world and with low density, but there are paths that have already been taken, and there is still much to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u273	Everything's about to be done!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u274	I am an example of the continuing increase in Alqueva's irrigation, which is already at 130 000 ha. [[P.S.'s applause.]] From 2019 to now, it has accounted for more than 50 million investments, and it continues to invest. In addition to agriculture, I can also refer to the approval of applications for the construction of new student residences in the three districts of Alentejo. Only in Beja, the investment is EUR 15 million. On the railway and road we had already made progress, with the start of the procedures for electrification of the Beja-Casa Branca line and the study for the creation of the airport connection branch, this airport which was a good public investment — sold by VV. Ex. to the private—and which can and should be better exploited. Yes, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is imperative to take better advantage of Beja airport! We cannot rewrite the past, but we can continue to build new futures. Alentejo deserves more and better!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u275	Oh, he deserves, he deserves!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u276	You guys don't want to give!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u277	The Alentejo can be even better and better. With the contribution of all those who stand on the side of the construction of solutions, rather than the inconsequential choice of stressing the problems. Positioning the territory, people and our lands on the radar of decision makers and the media is a challenge we have assumed, as the voice of Low Alentejo, and that we must continue together, without falling into disbelief to say that nothing has been done or is about to be done; without promising a world and another that does not exist; without neglecting the construction of solutions and answers, for people and for the Alentejo, as part of the paths of the future we want for Portugal. If each of us, where he is, give more firm, sensible and consistent voice to that ambition, all help, although resources are limited. I shall finish, Madam President, by saying that in the Alentejo it will be done, we want it to be done! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u278	For an intervention, Mrs Sonia Ramos of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u279	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I hope that, in Alentejo, it will be done! In the gerundium, no, Mr, with all the consideration I deserve! First of all, I would like to thank the petitioners for the opportunity to bring to the colloquium the defense of Alentejo, not only as elected by the district of Évora, but as a citizen, concerned with a territory full of potentials, which has not merited due attention by the government, especially with regard to public investment. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u280	The socialist governments chaired by António Costa promised to significantly increase public investment, including in the State budget some projects to then, through the captives, prevent the execution of these investments, leaving the public transport, in particular, to slow down, despite the announcements. They promised, but they did nothing! We well remember the delays and suppressions of trains, the train of the CP - Trains of Portugal which dropped a motor in progress — we all remember —, the systematic failures in air conditioning in the summer, the constant failures in the maintenance of trains, causing the chaos in the daily lives of the Portuguese, but not the Alentejans, because there is no there. The Ferrovia 2020 programme is paradigmatic of the divorce between the promises and the realization of the Socialist Government in the field of investment in public transport, where the postponement of projects has already taken place for several years. They promised a railway plan, but they didn't do anything! Alentejo is a victim of this policy of true non-investment, but evidenced by the facts, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. Announcements, there are many! In June 2021, the managing entity of the national railway network came to Parliament to explain the plans to modernize the Casa Branca-Beja, with possible reopening to Funcheira. Let's calculate! Open... On 2 September this year, the President of the CCDR ( Commission for Regional Coordination and Development ) of Alentejo, Ceya da Silva, in Beja, announced the electrification of the Casa Branca-Beja line, with secure funding of EUR 100 million. And he added, as regards rail, and I quote: "As President of the Coordination Committee I demand..." — and here I make a parenthesis to say that although a PS demands —... that the government constructs what is missing from the motorway, at least to Beja airport". This is what the president of the CCDR of Alentejo said, as we know, a prominent militant of the Socialist Party in the region. I am glad that there are socialists who demand that the government's promises be fulfilled in their territories. IP ( Portugal's Infrastructure ), on 28 December 2020, also stated that it was going to study the connection of Beja airport to the railway. They promised, but they did nothing! From a study, nothing happens in the Alentejo. Returned 11 years on the opening of the first flight from Beja airport, only aircraft maintenance has experienced some development. The expectations were great, but nothing was achieved, despite the pressure, which we welcome, of some Alentejo socialists, who have failed to convince their own government of the goodness of solutions to Alentejo. It is a national imperative to bet on the Alentejo region as the best destination to live, work and visit. It is a national imperative to also bet on telework, which has proved — unfortunately, for a bad reason, because of the pandemic we know — that there is an opportunity to fix people in the territory, skilled labour, using new technologies, and many have returned to the ground. This should be an opportunity and a signal for the Socialist Government, in particular, to do something too. And now I remember the phrase "In Évora, where do we sleep? », which is a very interesting t-shirt of young university students, for those who don't know. Once again, thank you for this timely idea of development — since the Socialist Government does not have them for Alentejo — I would also like to point out that improving accessibility is essential to deduce the demographic winter in these territories. So let us remember the country and the government that Alentejo also exists. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u281	For an intervention, Mrs Joana Mortágua of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u282	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I wanted to greet the petitioners. There are many people on this list of Alentejanas and Alentejanas that I have known, some since I was born and with whom I grew up, and therefore I wanted to greet them. There are many challenges to development that Alentejo has faced. Mr. Eduardo Alves brought here a song about the beauty we all recognize to the region. I bring another one, which says: « It has always been forgotten/ On the margin, south of the Tagus / There are so many unemployed people/ So much abandoned land/ It is so big the Alentejo. Do not keep on seeking. ” Each of these lines, the first of which, then, that « It is so great the Alentejo », gave to make several considerations. It is that one of the first difficulties of development and territorial cohesion in the Alentejo — and that is what petitioners identify — is the issue of accessibility, it has always been accessibility, there is no novelty here. So when we look at this petition and we find things like a Sines-Caia railway link — and therefore a railway link that allows us to connect the largest port of Portugal to the Stramadura and a logistics platform in the Spanish Extremadura — it makes sense that this link can be passed at least by the district capitals and that it can therefore pass through Beja. It makes sense that Beja International Airport, which was built with the investment of all, can be part of the national airport strategy. It makes sense that there is, see, an electrified and modernized line to connect district capitals to Lisbon and Algarve, to connect the Alentejo to the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon and the Algarve. It makes sense that there is a highway to reach the district capital, Beja, which is the largest district in the country. It makes sense that there is a highway, not to walk at the speed at which Mr. André Ventura or his driver make Lisbon to Porto,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u283	A goat! A goat! Your government!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u284	...it is not for that, but that it allows, at least, to get to Beja, with a full highway. It makes sense a connection that can enable the three capitals of the largest region of the country to communicate with each other, that the municipalities communicate with each other. When we look at these proposals, we see in them the image not of a country at two speeds, but of an underdeveloped country, a country that has no links, a country that feels forgotten, a country that feels abandoned. That's what Alentejo feels! So there will also be other consequences.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u285	Let's vote on it! That's why they vote on it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u286	But I would like to warn you, because I have listened carefully to Mr Pedro do Carmo's statement that the problems of Alentejo are not summed up in terms of accessibility. Mr. Pedro do Carmo spoke here about the recreation. I know what the Alentejos of Intensive Agriculture think this government has promoted in the Alentejo. I know that generations are going to have to deal with the contaminated and exhausted land that you are promoting. I know what kind of labour is that the government has managed to bring about this intensive exploitation. [[Protests by CH Member Pedro dos Santos Frazão.]] There are problems of ecological sustainability, there are problems of economic sustainability, it is true. The Alentejo is great, there are no longer so many abandoned lands, but there are many lands to be exhausted. The risk of Alentejo is to replace the abandonment by the destruction of its social cohesion, by the destruction of its territory, its diversity, environmental protection through intensive agriculture. We also face a demographic winter and I clearly say: there is no future for Alentejo without being able to attract immigration to the region. [[Protests of CH Deputies.]] I never thought an intervention on Alentejo would cause such controversy, frankly. Because of many population attractiveness measures, it is also not as Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto said.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u287	Mrs. Member, I'm sorry, but you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u288	I will finish, Madam President. It is not the version that Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto brought here, promoting the interior—and what he proposed was to move to Beja, in a forced way, who does not take place in Lisbon! —, which will give that answer. It's not exactly the same situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u289	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u290	What we need is to give the immigrants conditions that Alentejo needs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u291	Mr Pedro Pinto, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u292	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to congratulate the petitioners of the Alentejo Platform for bringing this debate here. The question is the following: where will the Alentejo stop? The government’s contempt for Alentejo is seen here, as it does not appear, has fled. We already knew this: the largest region in the country is abandoned by successive PS and PSD governments. This is the great truth. I'm going to tell you my story, some of you know her, some of you don't. I was born in Lisbon, I grew up in Vila Franca de Xira and, today, I live in Alentejo. I did the opposite of the vast majority of Portuguese: I left the metropolis, from Lisbon, to go to the Alentejo. You know what the big difference is? It is that my vote was worth 49 Members and now it is worth 2. [[Congrats from the CH.]] This is the first great inequality between the Alentejos and the rest of the country. We can say that Portalegre elects two Members, Beja three and Évora three — in all there are eight. The largest region in the country elects eight Members. As long as the PS and PSD do not understand and do not reform the Electoral Law the Alentejo will not change. We can come here with theories, with everything, but Alentejo won't change. Future vision is to connect Beja airport to Faro airport. That, yes, must be the fundamental principle, because at Faro airport, the day less day, will happen what is happening in Portela. As for connections to highways, Beja and Portalegre are the only district capitals in the country that do not have a motorway. We are in the 21st century and Beja and Portalegre do not have a highway! How is that possible? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u293	Listen, listen!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u294	Yes, we want a connection to A2 ( motorway No 2 ) Beja / Castro Verde, for the Algarve, we want a connection to A6 Beja / Évora / Spain, we want a connection to A23, from Extreme to the knot of Nisa. This, yes, is defending the Alentejo. The railroad that exists shames anyone in this house. But what train? Oh, my God! We have conditions-free locomotives. I invite either of you. Members going one day from Entrance to Badajoz. In Badajoz, laugh with the car that takes people. They laugh and ask: “What is that? Oh, my God! » That is what we have in the Alentejo.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u295	It's socialism!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u296	In Beja, trains arrive with a horrible gas oil smell, with people feeling bad. Where is the railway 2020 - 2030 project of this government? It's not, it's not, there's only one piece going on in the Alentejo, so they've already spoken here, between Sines and the border of Caia. I still speak on the Forgotten Portalegre: there are people who are there, Portuguese like all of us, but with unconditional schools, with lack of universities and companies, with no future. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u297	He could have applied there!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u298	You guys talk a lot! Mr. Eduardo Alves filled his mouth with the Pisão dam. But where is Pisão's dam? Has the work started yet? Where is he? [[Rice from PS Pedro do Carmo's deputy.]] So far, the only thing we know is that it's a ghost dam. It is already the third stone that the socialist governments throw, let us see if it is from this — let us hope it is. That Alentejo that you painted here, Mr. Eduardo Alves, is not the Alentejo where I live and I know perfectly well. I do not know if you are going there many times, but if you are, you will certainly know that what you have said is not true. [[Protests of PS Members.]] Since the honourable Member is young, what does he tell a young spokesperson to keep himself in the Portalegre district? Tell me what you're saying? He doesn't tell you anything because he can't give you anything, because the Socialist Party government doesn't give young people a chance to stay in Portalegre. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Regarding insecurity, we have two police officers for 100 km2. This is what happens in the Alentejo : two cops for 100 km2. We know of problems with ethnicities in Avis, in Reg along Monsaraz, in Beja. This is what communism and socialism have brought to the Alentejo. [[Congrats from the CH.]] In Monforte, there are cafes to close at 3:00 p.m. because the Gypsy ethnicity enters the cafes and no one else lets anyone go. This must be denounced, but you are silent and silent. [[Congrats from the CH.]] As for immigrants, what a shame of images! If I was a member of the Socialist Party, I would be ashamed to see immigrants in Serbia being received in that way. [[Protests of PS Members.]] You say: « Come, all come, do not matter if there are conditions, it is important that you come to the Alentejo to repopulate this region». This is not how politics is made, it is not how Alentejo rests. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u299	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u300	I shall end, Madam President, by asking you only for the condescendment you have given to other ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. What was Alentejo? It was the barn in Portugal, remember?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u301	It was misery, it was hunger!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u302	Agrarian reform has arrived and now the war and "has touched the bells to rebuff". Wheat, rye, where are they? There is nothing, we care about everything, because communists and socialists destroyed everything in the Alentejo. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u303	Mr. Deputies, I ask you to conclude. Using the same condescension I used with the other speakers, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u304	I will finish, Madam President. This is the story of the deep Alentejo, which does not appear on television, which has problems that have to be solved and which has to be developed. This is the real story. It could be fiction,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u305	Sir, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u306	... but it is the reality of a region where governments have long closed the door. We don't! Thank you very much for your condescendence, Madam President. [[Ch's applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u307	For an intervention, Mr Ricardo Pinheiro of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u308	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Pedro Pinto's courage is already known, at least because he likes bulls. What I advise is that, for four years now, you have the courage to be a candidate for the Portalegre district and to put all your will and the risk of being elected by that district. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in fact, the interior of the country and the Alentejo lack investment, but the lesson of interiority that, today, everyone from left to right, we are giving is absolutely brilliant. In fact, when there were investments, from Évora hospital to Pisão dam,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u309	Where is it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u310	... when you had the courage to come to Europe and defend a project that most of the Commissioners did not defend, it was an exercise of courage, of courage, of the Government of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Defending the interior is knowing that, at every moment, we need to bring the feelings, the experience. It is to think and have the courage to look at the possibility of having a desanilizer for our Alentejo. I am happy that the debate on the cohesion and interior of Portugal in this House will take place from left to right. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u311	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u312	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by greeting the petitioners, because the petition we are discussing here and which basically presents a strategy for the Alentejo, made by our citizens of Alentejo, is absolutely exemplary, in their integrated view, in the way, in a non-populist way, presents solutions and in the way it is realistic in relation to them. For example, in relation to Beja airport, it presents in fact how it can serve the South of the country, how it can serve Andalusia, how it can have cross-border interconnections, and does not attempt, as some do, to present a sort of tap-holes for a Mirific decision about the Lisbon airport. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] This petition was perhaps worth a debate on the content it brings. It is not here to say, as our colleague Carlos Guimarães Pinto said, that it is necessary for the State, within the country, to do what, by the way, the market did not regulate, and then to leave. Or then present an absolutely difficult vision to qualify, in which the problem of Alentejo is certain ethnic groups enter the cafes. We heard that here, although it seems incredible, as if they wanted to return to a past of certain countries, in which there were tables at the door of cafes, where certain ethnic groups could not enter. [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u313	Shame! Let's see what's going on!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u314	Mr Member, respect, too, who has elected the other Members in this House, as the respect he asks for the votes he has elected and who always uses to silence... [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u315	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for setting up conditions for the speaker to make his speech. Please continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u316	Thank you very much, Madam President. In fact, I find it hard to understand why the arrival reacts this way, simply by remembering what they just said on that bench, but finally.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u317	You've got another 5 minutes!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u318	This petition deserves and deserves, and on the Free will's part, a referral within the committees of the Assembly of the Republic and to question the Government about this strategy to monitor it and implement it. If we had, and we should have, regionalization in our country, it would be these kinds of strategies that we could be discussing in the regional assemblies and that we could be implementing, giving voice to the citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u319	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President, that you have already had the tolerance of the interruption.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u320	As a reitege, I am grateful for what our fellow Alentejo citizens have done in this petition.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u321	Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u322	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This discussion is very interesting, but someone, good or bad, has joined this discussion a draft resolution of the NAP, which has to do with a request for a strategic environmental assessment and, therefore, with due respect, I would like to express my opinion on it quickly—without interrupting your discussion very much, which is interesting. Addressing Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, who is the author of the project, I would like to say that, although it is a bit dated, the project is still interesting and we see ourselves in it, because there must be a strategic environmental assessment already mentioned, from the outset, so that political decisions are preceded by technical assessments. Now, with your permission, the debate on Alentejo continues. [[PSD laughter and applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u323	We now turn to point 5 of our agenda, which is that of the assessment and debate of Petition No 9 / XIV / 1. a ( José Batista Mestre Soeiro et al.) — By electrifying and modernizing the Alentejo Line, as a priority of national interest, together with Resolution Projects Nos 88 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — By electrifying and modernizing the entire Alentejo Line, 107 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government requalify the Alentejo railway line, 117 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — By modernizing and electrifying the entire Alentejo Line and reactivating the Aljustrel railway branch and 119 / XV / 1. a (CH) — The creation of an integrated strategy for accessibility and mobility of Alentejo in national and international connections. To present the Resolution Project No 88 / XV / 1. a ( BE) has the floor to Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u324	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I also welcome the subscribers of these two petitions. We continue the previous debate on Alentejo. We know that without rail there is no territorial cohesion, without railways there is no population, without railways there is no fight against climate change, without railways, the State has no instruments to mitigate the rise in the price of fuels. Still, when railways were expected to be progress and the future, it was losing investment, it was shrinking, it was disappearing until it represented only 5% of all national mobility. Instead of public transport, the great project for the future of successive PSD and PS governments was the tar and individual transport. But when I speak in tar, I do not speak in Beja, because Beja did not have the privilege of being a beneficiary of the excesses of the tar. If we walk through this country outside we will find examples of this abandonment, a abandonment that is not resolved by pushing people out of Lisbon and that is not solved only with tax benefits. Alentejo is an example of this abandonment: they are populations with enormous distances between them, where travel is essential. For a student to go from home to school you may have to travel 40 km or more, for a person to travel every day to work you may have to do 40 km or more. When I was at school there were two Intercities per day — two Intercites per day! — between my village and Beja. The rest were motors without heating or air conditioning. There are still very few trains today, but there are no Intercities. The situation today is worse than that of students and inhabitants of the Alentejo, of Lower Alentejo, who attended the Beja Line faced 10, 15 or 20 years ago. It is true that there is an Intercities that makes the route Lisbon-Casa Branca, but from there there there is only the car, which has heating, but fails in winter, it has air conditioning, but it breaks down in summer, because it can't withstand the heat. Yes, there is an alternative means of transport, well known and used among the Alentejos, it is called a ride! I would say that, finally, it is a method to unravel some situations, pass the expression, but it is not the solution that the Alentejans deserve and that they need. The government is currently a tribute to this huge debt that the country has towards Alentejo: to ensure accessibility to the largest districts in the country, where they do not exist. That is why the draft resolution presented by the Left Block has some basic conditions, which are the least we should be talking about in a developed country. It is the minimum to have an electrified line between White House and Beja and also in the Beja-Funcheira section. Don't ask too much, sirs. Members, only an electrified line linking Lisbon to district capital and district capital to other important municipalities. And now we also need to ensure a line between Beja and Beja airport and other accessibility. It cost millions of euros to build Beja airport, abandoned the project and never looked at that territory again! So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not asking for a big revolution, we are asking for the minimum investments so that the Alentejo may also have minimum conditions to start looking at the future with other conditions and with another hope, which well deserves. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u325	To present the draft resolution of the NAP, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u326	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I should like to begin by congratulating the petitioners and welcoming them for the initiative, which calls for the electrification and modernization of the Alentejo Line as a priority of national interest. Today we are talking about social and territorial cohesion, and the NAP considers mobility, particularly the railway, which is absolutely essential for fulfilling this desire, to more than one region that has been left out of national development infrastructures. Mrs Mariana Mortágua spoke now about the conditions of the carriages, but the stations themselves end up being completely abandoned, as well as the populations around them are completely forgotten. Therefore, it is enough to circulate on the railway line to perceive the discrepancies that exist from the metropolitan areas to the interior of the country. Investment in rail transport is essential for social and territorial cohesion, but also for combating climate change. We must not forget that the fact that we circulate cars currently accounts for about 25% of the total CO2 emissions in our country and that the targets for greenhouse gas reduction in the transport sector are fundamental. Nor can we forget that in Portugal the assessment of air quality says that air pollution is responsible for more than 7000 premature deaths each year and brings an annual cost to society of about EUR 1000 million. For all reasons, it is essential to comply with what is requested here. I cannot fail to recall that the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 133 / 2019 of 5 June already recommended to the Government the electrification and requalification of the railway portion of the White House-Beja-Funcheira and, in particular, the White House-Beja, provided for in the National Investment Programme 2030 — and no longer so long. It is also necessary to ensure the supply of trains, as planned, and more attractive and appropriate schedules, as well as the connection of the Port of Sines to the neighbouring Spain, with the urgent electrification of the connection of Ermidas from Sado to Funcheira, in order to ensure the disposal of goods, without occupying the routes affected by the transport of passengers, and also contributing to the reduction of the carbon footprint and the development of the Country. The NAP welcomes once again the petitioners and guarantees that it will be next to these measures, which are, of course, fundamental to social cohesion.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u327	To present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u328	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to greet, greet and thank the petitioners, in the people present here in the galleries, who have stimulated this request from the Alentejo Platform to request this House which defines as a priority of national interest the electrification and modernization of the Alentejo Line. The gentlemen. Members will probably not fully know the reality of the Alentejo Line. It is one of the oldest national lines, but at the moment it is completely abandoned and forgotten. Let's imagine two neighboring districts, such as Beja and Faro, which have no railway connection, which would connect the two cities, I believe, in 45 minutes. Today, to get from Beja to Faro train takes more than five hours, and you need to come to Lisbon practically. What is being done is unbelievable, and the worst thing is that what is designed by this Government of absolute majority, the PS, is to continue to make the Alentejo Line a branch of Beja!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u329	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u330	With this the PCP does not agree and will fight with all its forces so that the Alentejo Line is electrified and used as a whole. Only in this way can it be enhanced, for the sake of that territory and of the whole national one, of course, because it is an alternative and redundant route for goods from the Port of Sines to the border, linking to the European hinterland. The PS doesn't have to come here to paint the picture you've done a lot. The closing medal of this line is at the heart of the PS, which in 2010 closed it, justifying itself with requalification, but never opened this piece again in the connection between Beja and Ourique.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u331	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u332	It was also the PS that ended with the direct connection between Beja and Lisbon. It has been the PS — with the complicity of the PSD, which also turned its back on this important railway connection! — that you have forgotten and abandoned it. The question that arises, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what the PS, which has the absolute majority—and, moreover, also had it in the Alentejo! — will you do for these structural projects, such as the electrification and modernization of the Alentejo Line? Will you keep doing just the minimum, just to say what you do, or will you do what is necessary? It is not even enough to make the announcements, such as what has been done recently by the President of the CCDR, who has come to understand that the works would start tomorrow. At best, what the infrastructure in Portugal says is that only there by 2030 can we equal the first electrified online train to arrive at Beja. It seems that everything is already there, but the concern is still greater, when EUR 100 million is announced and what is included in the investment plan in the Regional Development Plan of Alentejo is EUR 80, EUR 6 million. In other words, what is included in this plan, already having the airport connection branch, is less than 25 % than what was announced by the President of the CCDR. The question we should ask is whether the electricity is at risk; whether or not there is enough money to elect the line to Beja. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you can say what you want, but you can't find any justification for what is unjustifiable. Do not take advantage to make the connection between Beja and Évora and the agreement before White House, allowing the connection to the border, is to abdicate from Alentejo, is to abdicate from a development to which we have the right and to which the PS turns his back. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u333	To present the draft resolution of the Arrival, Mr Bruno Nunes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u334	Madam President-in-Office, in your compliance with the whole plenary session, complimenting and greeting the petitioners. Squeeze the clothes, yell they're done,... [[PSD and BE laughter.]] ...but the reality is that the Left Block was in management and what did you do for the Alentejo? Ball! The Communist Party is the greatest traitor to the Alentejo of the last 50 years,... [[Congrats from the CH.]] ...with the history of agrarian reform and the land being the one who works! They say everything and something else! They were in front of the municipal chambers, they didn't do anything! They want to turn Alentejo into a great Cuba, but it is not the Cuban of Alentejo, it is where there is misfortune, where there is misery! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Today we saw, even, the NAP defending the Alentejo! Mrs. Member, tell the Alentejos, tell the Alentejo people what you stand for the animals, the animals that are working in the field. What you guys do is come here to rip your clothes off and say everything and something else! But I think this is solved today, in a simple way: the PS has, alternated with the PSD, 40 and many years of governance, and completely forgets the Alentejo. They've completely abandoned Alentejo!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u335	You weren't a municipal deputy for the PSD? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u336	It was the biggest lie on April 25. And on April 25, they put the nail in their chest and sing: Grândola, Vila Morena! There they're all singing the Grândola, Vila Morena. Some parties have to pass some post-it, because they don't even know how it sings, as is the case of the Left Block, but the important thing is to deceive the Alentejo people with all these stories. Our draft resolution solves the whole problem and I want to see your courage in front of the Alentejo people to say that they will refuse it because of ideological blindness. It is in the draft resolution: to create an integrated strategy for accessibility and mobility of Alentejo to national and international links. Quoting Minister Pedro Nuno Santos, who did not come today, "if this is not a proposal, what would it be? Do not keep on seeking. ” It is in the project: it proceeds to the completion of the modernization of the electrification of the entire piece Casa Branca-Beja-Funcheira. If this isn't a proposal, what will it be?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u337	It's us! You fell!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u338	It's in the project that builds the link of the White House-Beja, that airport that some of you, in your little mouth, say it's useful to transport balloons and straws. That is the shameful way they treat the Alentejo people!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u339	Chumbaram!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u340	Therefore, I believe that they will approve this draft resolution, which also speaks in the implementation of the A26 ( motorway No 26 ), of the IP8, which is one of the great lies that you have told the Alentejo people, from the connection to A6, to A23. Today we heard Mr. Ricardo Pinheiro challenging our banking leader to be a candidate for Portalegre. I will explain to you what is really going on: when you want to make a change to the electoral law, the PS will realize that you will lose that bench. Until then, the big difference is that Pedro Pinto has bright days, you have Bright Days. [[Congrats from the CH.]] He's not here today. Do you know what that means, at the level of works? It's simple, we have the masterpiece of the master and you the master-of-works! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u341	For an intervention, Mrs Sonia Ramos of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u342	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I thank once again for the initiative of a group of citizens who today present in this House an idea of development for a territory that represents a third of the country. Alentejo is a preserved and secure territory, with a history marked by the richness of its built and cultural heritage that gives it its own identity and authenticity, with potential for competitive, differentiated and sustainable affirmation, based on consolidated activities and the emergence of new niches of productive specialization. Alentejo has products of recognized world excellence such as cork, ornamental rocks, handicrafts, gastronomy, wines and olive oil. The development of accessibility and connectivity infrastructures reinforces the importance of Alentejo's geo-economic positioning in the context of national and international economic relations and is an important factor in attracting investment and business hosting. But it is essential that the government give a clear political sign of bet in the region, which has so far not existed. Alentejo has natural and endogenous resources, has a business fabric that begins to rise and that in some sectors is highlighted by the use of state-of-the-art technology, has academia and, above all, has a people who cultivate an umbilical relationship with their territory and who does not give up the right to be happy there, «where the plain is a brasido», as the poet Alentejana Calipolense wrote. But Alentejo does not have a government concerned about territorial cohesion or about the inequality of opportunities that the abandonment of the country's interior voted for these populations, because it has, in favor of the metropolises, successively, invested only by an electoralist accounting. This is the only reason why rail delays in the Alentejo — which the Government has already acknowledged — and the de-investment in the area of safety or the placement of workers in education, health, culture and so many other areas. The social elevator of the Alentejo, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it's been a mirage. Today we are still witnessing the launch of another new high-speed line: Lisbon-Porto. Well understood, nothing against public investment in big cities, on the contrary, but vehemently against the total lack of investment within the country — yes! One example: the investment in sport in the Alentejo is zero. There are 14 high-performance centers in the country and only one is located south of the Tejo, in the Algarve. Even the Central Hospital of Alentejo, used with so much gaudio by the Alentejo socialists, saw the money affected, at the level of the multi-year investment framework, being reduced from 54 million to 2 million euros, which does not admire, in view of the incompetence in the execution of the work. As regards the financing of the regional OP (operational programme) for this same equipment, for example, only 3 % of the 40 million affected were implemented. It's shocking. The government can't even run European funding and do the structural work the country needs, and the pandemic can't excuse everything. Accessibility is fundamental to attracting and locating new activities and businesses and we will only fix people in the territory, because without people nothing makes sense. The development of the port platform of Sines will allow Alentejo Litoral an international logistics platform, but we need that the investment in the railway of Alentejo is a reality and is not limited to the study subterfuge, as a pretext to deceive the Portuguese. The Sines-Caia-Madrid freight line should serve the Alentejo, Évora district and the economic and social interests of the region. The construction of a terminal of goods serving the aeronautics industry and the extraction of stone from the marbles zone is imperative. The Alentejos refuse to stay « to see the train passing ». Portugal is the fifth largest exporting country of ornamental rocks. Still, the government is resisting to make a freight terminal in the marble zone budgeted in — they are startling! — only EUR 11 million. He believes much for Alentejo and, instead of making this bet in the region and in the national economy, he calls for another addition or a study of economic and financial viability—which is being done—promoted by the IP and the authorities involved, but what is certain is that, until today, in no official document, the Socialist Government has committed itself to the development of the Alentejo. The Prime Minister states that the country has financial conditions to advance, without any setbacks, to a high-speed project, but does not have EUR 11 million to build a channel of goods to favour a third of the territory. On 5 July 2019, this House adopted a resolution recommending to the Government the electrification and modernization not only of the White House-Beja, but also of the Beja-Funcheira, fundamental to the Integrated Strategy of Sustainable Accessibility of the Alentejo, which, claimed in our petition today, guarantees a link to the south of the country to respond to the true challenges of the Alentejo, but to serve above all the Alentejos. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u343	Mr Nelson Brito of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u344	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: All petitioners, especially those who represent institutions and also individually represented of the Alentejo Platform, are honored and pleased to treat them as containers. Obviously, as a sub-alentejo, I would like to be here announcing that the railway in my region is working in full. In Lower Alentejo, as everywhere, there is a time of legitimate expectations for the lower alentejo, which urgents and cannot be overcome. I would like to congratulate myself on the fact that the Lower Alentejo finally has better equipped road accessibility in other regions of the country. That is not possible to me, but we know the reasons for this impossibility. We know these reasons because we have memory. We remember who, under the pretext of the troika, broke contracts to grant the blind.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u345	Blind? Oh, my God! It was the opposite!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u346	We remember very well who, the pretext of austerity, definitely stopped active enterprises that would benefit one of the most extensive and, at the same time, more isolated territories in the country. This is the example of the IP2, between Évora, Beja and Castro Verde, however carried out, or A26, on the route of Sines-Beja. These, who are sitting here today, are called PSD, by the hand of the then State Secretary of Infrastructure, Transport and Communications Sérgio Monteiro. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Sonia Ramos.]] I cannot congratulate myself, as I would like, but I can still say that today we have a horizon of hope...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u347	Hope is zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u348	... more than what the PSD left when it was government, which, in the case of Alentejo, was « a hand full of nothing and nothing else ». The worst thing that can be done, in relation to all these mobility projects that the legitimately ambitious region, is the constant noise that some continue to dread and that only impairs its good execution, such as the current President of the City Council of Lisbon, Eng.o Carlos Moedas, who, as candidate of the Lower Alentejo, said one thing and today, as President of the City Council of Lisbon, says another. « The times change, the desires change», says the saying. [[PSD protests.]] Today—and the future is of interest to us—, we have in progress EUR 3, EUR 2 million for implementation projects: for the modernisation of the Casa Branca-Beja, of the Alentejo Line, including the electrification and installation of signaling and telecommunications systems, for the technical and environmental feasibility study of the railway connection to Beja airport, mainly for decisions that will be taken on this project, with a provision for its implementation of EUR 100 million, entered in the 2030 Community framework, within the framework of the Regional Alentejo PO. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Orique-Funcheira section remains in operation, with the voltage of 25 kVA, providing the connection of the Neves-Corvo branch to the southern line.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u349	That's for the goods!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u350	Today we have assurances that the IP will develop a market search and cost-benefit analysis study for interventions to be carried out in strengthening the national rail network, where this becomes relevant, including in the reactivation of the Beja-Uorique, of the Alentejo Line, where the Aljustrel branch will be covered. In addition, this town has registered in the PRR, with about 7 million euros, with public tender for its execution...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u351	That's funny!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u352	...to launch in the coming months, the variant surrounding the village, coveted for more than 40 years. At the level of the road, today, we have much more than what has been left to us. The IP8 will be intervention, between Santa Margarida do Sado and Ferreira do Alentejo, including the construction of the variant to the village of Figueira de Cavalieros, and between Ferreira do Alentejo and Beja and from the variant to the village of Beringel, with funding from the PRR, and the completion of the work should take place until 2025. The project designated as IP8-A26 is also integrated in the RRP, increasing the connection capacity between Sines, its important port and A22. to date, only in Lower Alentejo, in the last five years, have 19 works of art and benefited several roads in about 13 million euros, to add more 2, 7 million euros in the tendering phase. We didn't do everything we wanted, that's right, but today we have more than what was left to us. To conclude, there is a strategy, planning, timing, political decision and the secured financing of the various projects within the Community framework and the PRR. These conditions are met, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we remain - through our duties - and here we will be, as always! — to monitor and defend this framework of achievements, which we legitimately aspire to, for a region which, economically, is increasingly important for the country's results; in particular for its commercial balance, through exports, which we have increased, and with the successive increase of its production in several sectors of activity, which is contributing, increasingly, to increasing national GDP. I repeat: today, we have a horizon of hope that the Alentejans, in general, and the Bajo-Alentejans, in particular, recognize, with confidence that the future will be better than the sad past of breaking commitments and abandoning that all the Alentejo has been voted upon.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u353	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u354	Allow me to conclude, Madam President, with a quote from the Republican Brito Camacho about our region: « The Alentejo, by its immensity, is not a province, it is a country. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u355	The Bureau noted a request for clarification from Mr Bruno Nunes of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, although Mr Nelson Brito did not have time to answer. Please, Mr Bruno Nunes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u356	Mr President, it is a matter of time management in this case. Mr. Nelson Brito, I like these speeches. Again, you said: « The Alentejo is an immensity. Because of its immensity, it is not a region is a country. """""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""" Tell me something — you don't say it anymore, but you can reply in writing to my e-mail and I'll be happy to see your answer — as regards the extension of Beja hospital, will you or will you not do it? It's because the issue of Évora doesn't solve, we're a lot of miles away to solve.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u357	How many miles are there?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u358	You said, too, that IP8 is moving forward. You have not been here, Mr Minister, and I believe that you are dealing with something that is surreal, because, you know, the IP has just responded to our authors saying that none of the IP8 works will advance. So look where you're getting the information from, so you don't come to Parliament again, promise the Alentejo lies behind lies. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Lie behind lies! I can send you the e-mail if you don't have it. With regard to Beja airport, say you, in front of your bench, if Beja airport is the priority of Minister Pedro Nuno Santos. Is that what they are negotiating with the PSD, which stays there and creates the railway solution to connect Spain, Sines and Lisbon? Or is it just your vision, unlike your party? It is that you are a party at various speeds, as they put at various speeds Beja, Évora, Portalegre, in a shameful way. The region is increasingly forgotten, it is the largest in the country and you treat it badly. I repeat again: it is the greatest betrayal of April 25! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u359	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u360	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of two debates dedicated to Alentejo, besides welcoming these petitioners and accompanying what has already been said about the importance of the railway for development not only of the Alentejo, but also of the Country, I think that we could add something more, taking advantage of a part of the mission of AMAlentejo, that is, of the association that promoted this second petition we discussed. AMAlentejo has played an important role in remembering that Alentejo was the Portuguese region that voted in favour of regionalization and in trying — if we cannot do regionalization without jumping steps, or jumping steps, if we cannot do it only for a region — to encourage the creation of an intermunicipal community in Alentejo, which is as comprehensive as possible and that allows us, in a way, from Alentejo, to do the pilot project of this regionalization that we lack. We are not prevented from doing this, precisely in order to advance the debate on regionalisation. Why not submit these plans to the government, so that he can make general states of the Alentejo? Why not this House itself devote some of its work and its delegations to Alentejo itself? In order not to miss out on opportunities such as those identified, why not make this mobilization that already exists in Alentejo civil society the kind of debate that we need to demonstrate that regionalization is necessary in the continental territory of our country, which can work and that Alentejo has a lot of pioneering and future giving to our country?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u361	We have thus concluded this item on our agenda. We move on to the sixth point, which consists in the assessment of Petition No 210 / XIV / 2. a ( Daniela Avdija et al.) — They call for the worsening of criminal frameworks for crimes against pet animals, together with, in general, Lein 6 / XV / 1 Projects. a (PAN) — Expands the criminal protection of animals by amending the Criminal Code, 260 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — regulates the brokerage and accommodation in balconies and similar spaces of pets and provides for the implementation of a national contingency plan and 301 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Alter the Decree-Law No 276 / 2001 of 17 October, increasing the protection of pets. To present the bills of the NAP, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u362	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we would like to welcome the petitioners who brought to this House a subject that is so expensive to us, that of animal protection. More than 27 000 people have submitted a petition for the criminal frameworks of crimes of animal abuse to be aggravated, which indicates that, despite the existence of this crime, civil society continues to wake up on this issue. As much as we would like to be discussing the improvement of legislation at this time, unfortunately, we are not dealing with this context. at this moment, we already have three decisions of the Constitutional Court that have come to determine that these criminal norms are unconstitutional, so we fear that the Plenary may in some way come to support and have a very little up-to-date view of our Constitution, which will certainly be a decision in contrast to the social feeling. at this moment, with this decision, the consequences are already visible in the Portuguese courts — to exfoliate, tear, shoot live animals into the trash, to mistreat, among other forms of abuse, has no consequence. Even on Monday, the Guimarães Court of Relations acquitted a woman who had been convicted of animal abuse. These crimes are no less often practised in the presence of victims of domestic violence, minors or, among other circumstances, particularly vulnerable victims. However, a society that is at least just and evolved cannot allow situations of this gravity to be a crime. That is why the NAP defends an initiative aimed at densifying standards and ensuring greater legal certainty, even though it does not agree at all with very little up-to-date reading and vision that has reigned in the Ratton Palace section.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u363	I haven't heard an attack in this way to the Constitutional Court for a long time!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u364	The proposal presented by the NAP also responds to another problem which seems clear and absolutely fundamental to us, that of unconstitutionality — yes, a true unconstitutionality! — to limit the crimes of ill-treatment and abandonment only to pets, leaving out the ill-treatment that are perpetrated against other species, such as horses, and from north to south of the country we have ended up having numerous examples of ill-treatment to these species. Does there exist the courage of honestly saying that these animals, because they are of different species, do not feel or suffer in the same way? Now, the Assembly of the Republic will have an opportunity here, by making these initiatives, including those of the merger, to make it clear that we are accompanying civil society, which claims crime against animal abuse—all of them, not just pet animals—and, on the other hand, to distance themselves from the short vision of the Ratton Palace, which cannot be insensitive to the abuse of an animal does not equal the principle of human dignity, among many other values emanating from our Basic Law.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u365	To present the bill of arrival, Mrs Rita Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u366	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Animal-Nature Party — I repeat, Animals and Nature! — brings us a proposal which shows that, in the design of policies, people are always excluded from the equation. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u367	They exclude people when they create alarmism about everything and a pair of boots, but they do not have a single word to say about the elderly who die in homes, abandonment, with open wounds and ants covered; or, for example, when, as recently, they disrespect the results of free and democratic elections that elect women leaders— ironically, for those who call themselves feminist—saying that with these results, which are, and I stress again, the fruit of popular will, we live sad days for democracy. [[Congrats from the CH.]] They run democracy and ignore people, but do not think that they lead the debate on the animal agenda, because they do not. The arrival has denounced this ideological blindness which aims to abolish Portuguese traditions such as that of bullfighting, where there is no — I repeat: there is no! — bulls of death, but then they close their eyes and vote for an absolute silence on religious abbots, for example, for halal meat, in respect, they say, for multiculturalism. There are thousands of animals that are delagrated in Portugal in the name of tradition and, above all, the NAP has no word. After all, Mrs. Member, are there animals of the first and second? [[Congrats from the CH.]] Do you mean that there are more important cultures and traditions than others? Do you even have animal concern or what moves it is a hatred of Portuguese culture and tradition? What I conclude is that the NAP is a moralist party, but without morals. I agree with what he said at the outset: we discuss unrealistic proposals that demonstrate that, in the design of policies, there are those who do not think about people. « Implementation of a national contingency plan », « regulation of housing in balconies and similar spaces of pets », this sounds very good here and certainly to those at home — no one likes to imagine animals running or trapped in balconies, but in practice what it proposes is completely desquared by the family dynamics of the common Portuguese and the reality of the rural world. We cannot take everything on the side and regulate it in an authoritative way as this proposal does, which is to say, that it is to be equal to what is different. Have you ever thought about the guardian animals, which, for the safety of third parties, are being held while workers on farms, for example, do agricultural work? What about the animal that is currently running for security of its own? Do you prefer animals with currents of 5 m, many of them with chained chains of steel, which allow for greater mobility, or closed on a channel, in less than 2 m2? And how do you intend to implement and monitor this measure? Are you going to invade the Portuguese house, one by one, and check the family conditions? What will you do to the animals later? Will you welcome them all into your home? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u368	These are questions that we deserve to answer. It does not fight the stay of animals on balconies by prohibiting them from being there more than three hours, as they propose. This will only promote their abandonment and, I remember, it is estimated that more than 30 000 animals are abandoned per year, with the aggravating that dogs are full and associations are exhausted and cannot accommodate more animals. In fact, Mrs. Member, answer this question: won't many of the animals in small canes be in worse condition than a dog who stays in a balcony for a few hours and who returns home when the family comes home? You know very well that there are dog boxes much smaller than balconies, but you haven't said anything about that. Wouldn't it be better to promote responsible adoptions? Would it not be better to educate and help people understand the needs of pets? It is that not all families have the ability to have balconies or large farms or to hire babysitters for animals. I repeat, Mrs Deputy, every case is a case, but you ignore the reality and therefore recycle a proposal from the previous legislature, which shows that you have not yet realized how absurd it is to prohibit an animal from staying at home for more than 12 hours alone. Children and elderly can, the periquites are not! In fact, at this late hour of the debate, I am afraid that I will be in violation of your crazy rules and, perhaps, I am no longer worthy of returning my home to my animals. Once again, the NAP tries to create so many conditions and problems that it most seems that it does not like animals and that it only promotes their abandonment. They are beyond the royal country and the needs of Portuguese to take care of their animals, especially in these times of crisis, but arriving is not. [[Congrats from the CH.]] We therefore greet the petitioners, thanking the concerns expressed in this petition, because the defense of animal welfare is, first of all, a duty of all. If there are fringes of society that do not realize this, then more protection mechanisms and adequate penalties should be created to deter the behaviors of violence and ill-treatment. The arrival is absolutely in favour of the criminalization of animal abuse and we have already put forward a number of proposals in this regard, but we cannot continue to ignore the successive decisions of unconstitutionality by the Constitutional Court. That is why the Arrival will introduce in its proposal for an explicit constitutional review the defense of animal welfare. In addition, with this proposal we propose the double increase in the fines provided for in the legislation in force and we specifically ask that anyone who inflicts evil on animals be prohibited from returning to them. We have identified, above all, veterinary doctors as fundamental partners in combating animal abuse and in supporting their owners.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u369	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u370	We therefore propose that each municipality have at least one municipal veterinarian and that it be provided with adequate means. Finally, Madam President, with a word that is fair for animal associations, which have performed miracles in animal care with these few resources that they have, and ahead of time that we fear times of crisis, which, as you know, can boost animal abandonment. That's what we have to answer. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u371	For an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u372	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the petitioners who, on their own initiative, have brought the subject of abuse to animals to discussion in this House. We are therefore invited to reflect on the worsening of the penalties for those who practice acts of cruelty towards pets. They are called 'estimating' because these are the animals that keep closer to humans, and in many cases they are their only companions. Animal cruelty, whether of pets or not, is always repulsive and condemnable. However, unlike other parties, we tend to consider that these abject practices will not be avoided by worsening criminal frameworks. The fact is that in recent years Portugal has made a positive move towards extending the sanctions regime applicable to those who treat animals cruelly. Effectively, in 2020, legislation has been adopted which has aggravated the criminal frameworks for crimes of ill-treatment to pets. It does not seem to us, therefore, that further exacerbate the criminal frameworks will end these cruel acts. What will impact this sad reality is the ability to investigate and condemn who practices these cruel acts, thus ensuring effective justice and accountability for those involved. In our view, the greatest protection of all animals — not only pet animals — and the prevention of the occurrence of these acts is not achieved by increasing the criminal frameworks of the crime of abuse of pet animals. First, there is greater rigour and demand in the criminal investigation carried out by the Public Prosecutor's Office, to whom human, financial and material resources should be provided to enable the investigations necessary to resolve these crimes. Animal cruelty must be combated effectively, society's awareness must be increased and these crimes cannot continue to be committed, but we must not forget that the increase in criminal frameworks is the end of the line, in view of the general prevention of criminal law. For this reason, in a responsible party such as the Liberal Initiative, these initiatives cannot merit our acceptance. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u373	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u374	To defend the honour, Madam President. [[CH protests.]] Taking into account that Mrs Rita Matias said that the NAP is "a moralist but moralist party", among other charges she has raised, the NAP believes that it should use the planned regiment figure of defending honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u375	It's just the end of the debate!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u376	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u377	Madam President, I would like to make a note to Mrs Rita Matias... [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u378	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to create conditions for the honourable Member to use the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u379	Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Are you going to defend the honor?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u380	Yeah, yeah, personal honor defense. [[CH protests.]] Madam President, may I continue?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u381	Madam Member, if it is personal, it is only at the end of the debate. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u382	I'm sorry, but the honourable Member said « the NAP », which is the political force I represent... [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u383	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, please create conditions so that we can understand each other civilly. [[P.S. and PS.S. deputy Sofia Matos.]] Madam Member, do you want to defend honor on your own behalf or on behalf of the party?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u384	It is on behalf of the Party Persons-Animal-Nature, given that it has been said that the NAP is "a moralist party, but without morals".
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u385	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u386	It's just the end of the debate!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u387	Thank you very much, Madam President. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u388	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I have taken the decision to give the floor to the honourable Member. [[CH protests.]] If the gentlemen. Members disagree, please invoke the rule of the Rules of Procedure which justifies it and appeal to the plenary. Mrs. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u389	Mrs President, Mrs Rita Matias said that the NAP was a moralist party, but without morals, invoking, among other dimensions, the fact that we are defending animals and not people, especially the elderly and, in particular, the abandoned elderly. I would like to begin by clarifying that if, by chance, you do not see the initiatives of all other political forces that enter the Assembly, the NAP, with only one Member, you see them, and we introduced Bill No. 241 / XV / 1. a, that I will be happy to bring you here, which effectively aims to criminalize the conduct that consists of ill-treatment or abandonment of elderly people. We are here to defend the rights of animals and of nature, yes, but also to defend the rights of people. More: he also pointed out, and censured, the fact that I publicly stated that it was a sad day for democracy in Europe, with the election and promotion of the extreme right in Italy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u390	Is this a defense of honor? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u391	I repeat everything I said, because, in fact, the elected political leader comes back to the times of fascism and Saudiism in Italy. I am sorry, but I am on the right side of history and will continue to defend democracy and the values of our Fundamental Law, in Portugal or in Europe. As regards discrimination based on the slaughter of animals according to kosher and halal feeding, the NAP defends the end of these slaughters, defends the end of violence against any kind of animal, therefore it is not there either. In conclusion, Mrs Deputies, I would like to leave the following note: with regard to the draft law of the Arrival, which has come to accuse us of being moralists, I would suggest that they become more rigorous in your initiatives—which are manifestly badly done and out of step with the legislation itself—before they begin to attack the other political forces that work.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u392	In reply, Mrs Rita Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u393	Madam President, Mrs Inês Sousa Real, when I spoke about the fact that the NAP was a moralist party, but without morals, I did so on the basis of her last speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u394	Obviously!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u395	She spoke about horses—I even wrote her words—and said that it took courage to say that there is discrimination in relation to different species and that there is a consideration of different values. But does the honourable Member have the courage to say who is mistreating the horses?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u396	You don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u397	His party is the same as censoring his autoarchs who denounce the groups and ethnic groups who mistreat the horses. [[Congrats from the CH.]] This is called hypocrisy, Your Honor! Hypocrisy also exists when Mrs. Deputy calls herself a feminist, but she is unable to celebrate the historic fact of Italy having, for the first time, a woman in the position of Prime Minister. I see more indignation from the honourable Member regarding the election results in Italy — I repeat, free, fair and democratic — than by commenting on the cases that are happening in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I repeat, there are elderly people who are being eaten by ants in homes. [[Protests by the MP of the Inês PAN of Sousa Real.]] Above all, I am sure that the honourable Member would be so unhappy in her comment that the only thing she would have to say about there are ants in homes would be that her concern was more to the ants than to the Portuguese! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Finally, with regard to her comment on the quality of the legislative proposals from the Arrival, she thinks that she is in a race and is putting forward proposals by metro, but it was not us who recycled a proposal which, already in the past legislature, had been considered unobstructed. Ask yourself: How is it that a real Portuguese, a working mother, who has children, who leaves home at eight o’clock in the morning and can only return at eight o’clock in the evening, can keep company with her animal? Do you think it's realistic to forbid animals to be alone at home for more than 12 hours? [[Congrats from the CH.]] Madam Member, I invite you to leave your urban-depressive bubble, which has half a dozen animals in your apartment, and to know the reality of deep Portugal. That's it! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u398	Mr Paulo Araújo Correia, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u399	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the petitioners today, here in discussion, who already had the merit of raising this debate, which also includes three bills. This is a very important discussion, which has on the basis of a principle with which we will all agree, which is the following: all living beings have the right to co-exist on a planet that is of all. This principle mirrors the evolution of the mentality of our people, which has resulted in the evolution of the rights of non-human animals. It is undeniable that in recent years significant steps have been taken to protect animals effectively, with clear legislative advances, such as the criminalization of ill-treatment, the civilistic change of the concept of 'animal', the prohibition of their abandonment or the prohibition of their slaughter, among many others. And these advances, from the outset in the criminalization of ill-treatment of pet animals, have always been made with the intervention of the PS or from its proposals. We are talking about the criminalization of ill-treatment in 2014 ; the forecast of accessory sanctions in 2015 ; and the review of the regime for technical improvement and follow-up of suggestions from judicial operators. Thus, the fundamental steps of animal protection were of initiative or always deserved the favourable vote of the Socialist Party. This is an example of the first draft legal status of animals in the Civil Code in 2012 ; the approval of the animal protection regime by limiting online sales; the prohibition of animals in circuses; the improvement of rules on identification and registration of animals; and the end of slaughter in dogs. These gains and advances, which happened by the hands of the Socialist Party,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u400	Less! Less!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u401	... they result from the clear recognition of the simplicity of pets, which leads to the recognition and recognition of the legal dignity of the existence of the animal for ethical and moral reasons. This animal dignity, in our understanding, should not be placed at the level of human dignity, but rather at the level of one on which it is based.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u402	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u403	This means that we cannot look at the animal just as an object that serves us, but we must also take into account that it is capable of being an end in itself, able to ambitious, like us, a happy and lasting life, avoiding pain and suffering at all costs. This ambitious dignity of animals has been reinforced over the years, as I have said, always with clear and decisive contributions from the Socialist Party. This put, the Assembly of the Republic cannot ignore, even at the beginning of the separation of powers to which everyone in this House is restricted, the context in which this discussion is today, here, made. We are talking about the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which, on various grounds and already exhaustively discussed here, has understood that there is unconstitutionality in criminalization. It is in the knowledge of these decisions and their foundations that this discussion must be made and duly marked.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u404	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u405	Thus, recognizing that there is in the Bill No. 6 / XV / 1. the NAP, areas of commitment to consider and not ignoring that the extension of criminal protection to other animals already had a principle of agreement between the NAP and the PS in the previous legislation, we consider it premature to start the discussion at this stage, when there is a pending constitutional debate, still in a preliminary phase. As for Bill No 260 / XV / 1. the NAP, highlighting the good intentions underlying it, it is necessary to realize that the proposed there, specifically regarding the housing of animals in balconies, alpendres and similar spaces, may collide, Mrs. Deputy, with the national housing reality, running the risk of being counterproductive. In fact, the sudden application of the NAP proposal in this area would tend to worsen the situation of animals and their guardians, since they would be objectively forced to stop having animals due to lack of space. The regime in force today, not being clearly a pink world, is certainly less harmful than what would result from the approval of the NAP bill in these exact terms. Here arrived, and once again recognizing the relevance of the provisions on the flow of animals poured into the NAP project, it seems to us that the cases to which it intends to respond constitute a clear situation of ill-treatment, which already deserves legal protection and is already duly guarded in our law.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u406	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u407	I will finish this by saying that the Socialist Party will be, as it has always been, alongside progress and progress in animal protection. We will therefore continue to respond to the duty to look after and look after the rest of the animal kingdom, but not ignoring, as the responsible party we are, that this discussion should await the conclusion of what is now the case law of the Constitutional Court on this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u408	Mr Emília Cerqueira, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u409	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I naturally begin by welcoming the petitioners—who should not be present until the advance of the hour—for the initiative they have brought, which is important, especially in the year in which another anniversary of the first animal protection legislation, adopted in 2012. Mr. Paulo Araújo Correia, I would like to remind you that it was an absolute majority of the PSD and CDS that approved it and that in fact allowed this feasibility, particularly through Mr. Cristovão Norte, and then adopted a single text in the committee. You do not know, but I do not think we can distort the facts and take the merits of them, because it was in fact a right-wing majority — which despises so much — that the first statute was approved. Having said this, after 10 years, in this debate today, which is very important, let us refer to what is the constitutional issue. Looking at the proposals, in particular the worsening of the criminal frameworks presented by the petitioners, and the extension of protection to all animals not only by the NAP, of which we have always diverged, we cannot, irrespective of which, do not look down, and we have already three decisions of the Constitutional Court, a decision and two summaries, which have come to declare the unconstitutional norm. The PSD, unlike the PS, has always been very careful with this matter, and it is not by any chance that in the proposal for a constitutional review presented before the abrupt end of the previous legislation already contained animal protection. It wasn't by chance. In fact, there was the question of the entire legal building that had been built around animal protection and the criminalization of abuse of animals could be in danger, either because the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union does not foresee it — only provides for the conditions of dignity for the transport of animals, but in very own matters, it does not assign them rights as subjects of protection for constitutional rights — or because, at the level of that which is the last ratio, which is the criminal ratio, there has to be a connection with a constitutionally protected legal asset. And the Constitutional Court has been clear, crystalline, saying that there is no such protected legal good. Even yesterday, we heard that the Guimarãe Court of Relations has already decided in the same sense in situations — let me say — shocking to any human being. I am deeply shocked by the situations behind these decisions, but we cannot allow ourselves to be carried away only by our emotion and, with this, make bills, one behind another, which completely ignore the one that is the basis of all this, which is the legal-constitutional order. Not having this support, we have to be vigilant, to look very carefully at the so-called revision of the Constitution, so that the protection of animals becomes a reality, not with that absolutely fundamentalist vision of the NAP, which overlaps the rights of animals with those of others, in an absolutely irrational way, and does not suit our reality. Therefore, we must always take into account the welfare of animals — it is essential. Animal abuse is shocking to all of us, but we have to control errant animals, we have to take account of the fate and use of each animal—if it is an animal of production, if it is a pet, if it is a pet—the animal's size, the type of animal, because the needs for animal welfare are obviously not all the same. I remember saying here, in this House, in other debates, that sometimes we have to know when to stop, and of course the NAP never knew when to stop. I wanted more and more, more and more, what led us to a dreaded dead end, which is that of the unconstitutionality of this entire legal regime. This cannot continue, we must look at the Constitution very carefully. The PSD, as the party responsible for it, will be on the side of the solution, but will not legislate in obstensively unconstitutional matters, already declared by the Constitutional Court in three decisions, which I remind you of : the Constitutional Court judgment No 867 / 2021 of 10 January ; the summary decision No 306 / 2022 of 29 March ; and the summary decision No 344 / 2022 of 5 May. So we have these three decisions, there are already more decisions of the common courts, and this is the inexorable end of all this legal order and unfortunately the fall from the crime of animal abuse if we do nothing to make this regime re-emerge again, not in terms where the NAP obviously sees it, but going towards the protection of animals, the reality of Portuguese, the well-being of animals, but also of people. People must always be the fundamental link in the whole relationship and, above all, they must always be first in this chain and we can never sacrifice them, as we often see, in the name of only an obsession with the animal cause. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u410	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u411	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We want to begin by congratulating all the citizens who, through this petition, address the Assembly of the Republic. The CFP, in this debate, reaffirms that the problem of ill-treatment of pet animals should have as a priority response the adoption of preventive measures that avoid situations of abuse and abandonment of pet animals, discontinuing the choice of criminalization that imposes the application of prison measures after such abuse has occurred and without considering any mechanism or measure that prevents them. The choice to create new types of crime, because of the consequences and severity it implies, should have corresponded to a last resort intervention and is an option that has proved to be wrong and ineffective when there are no mechanisms to prevent, control and control behaviours that are intended to be avoided. Choosing the application of prison sentences in cases of ill-treatment or abandonment of pets without any means of preventing such situations is disproportionate and contributes to creating wrong expectations regarding the possibility of solving this problem. The use of criminal processes, with the mobilisation of the means of research, criminal police bodies and courts for the treatment of these issues, in addition to disproportionately, poses obstacles which are hardly compatible with results that can seriously contribute to the deterrence of such behaviour. It would be preferable for all titles to adopt a proportionate and sufficiently dissuasive counter-ordinary regime for pets. For the CFP, the need to prevent, deter, and, if necessary, penalise ill-treatment of pet animals, which are condemned attitudes and should be the subject of social and legal censorship, is not at issue. What is at stake is the insistence on an ineffective and, indeed, ineffective criminalization. It is also of concern that, on the pretext of protecting pets, these legal means have already been used for purposes contrary to the objectives with which they were established, particularly in the context of neighbouring conflicts or others that have nothing to do with the welfare of pets. A reference to the problem of indeterminate concepts. When we are dealing with problems to which we want to respond, when we are trying to solve situations, prohibiting, in general but inconsequential terms, and determining criminal punishment, indefinition and indetermination is such that, if we were to say, we could hardly remove positive consequences from here. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the CFP, the approach should be placed in prevention rather than in a punitive response. Measures and actions at the educational and pedagogical level should be taken to promote concerns about animal welfare, respect for and harmonious coexistence between human beings and other animals in nature, but also to invest in administrative, health and inspection means that put the State as a promoter of animal welfare and not as a mere repressor of violence against pet animals. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u412	For an intervention, Mrs Joana Mortágua of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u413	Madam President, I would like to begin by congratulating the more than 27,000 signatories of the petition which we have discussed today and which was organized following a violent crime against an animal, the Smoky dog. The account of the death of this dog, thrown into a river with bricks tied to the collar, is shocking and indignant to anyone. This petition is the expression of this just and legitimate indignation and we greet all petitioners and all petitioners for expressing this desire in a better world, where animal welfare is respected. over the past few years, there has been a huge advance in the policies of animal welfare in the country, from the very law that provides for the criminalization of animal abuse, as the petition points out. This law protects animals, was a milestone in society and a new way of looking at animals. Nevertheless, we do not ignore its limitations, from the very outset, of the understanding of the Constitutional Court, already mentioned here, that the rights of animals are not poured into the Constitution and, as such, the ill-treatment of animals cannot be punished with imprisonment. In practice, this decision, already taken three times, precludes a party or, in part, the law of criminalization of animal abuse. There are also severe limitations under this law, since it does not cover the so-called 'farming animals' and does not enter the bull markets in this country. All animal abuse should be prohibited, and not just a few. These are the priorities of the Left Block: to ensure that the current law of criminalizing animal abuse can really be effective and extend the law to protect all animals. That is why we believe that, at the moment, the worsening of criminal structures would not be a response to reducing violence against animals. It is not that measure that prevents them or decreases them. The law already gives a clear indication that such conduct is not acceptable in society. Above that law, we need to build a culture of respect for animal welfare. In fact, we see that in these debates, in the Assembly of the Republic, there are always those who ask for heavier penalties for animal abuse, while celebrating and applauding the torture of bulls in the arena. This is not a serious posture. from the Left Block, they can have a culture of respect for animals. Today, I cannot help making a reference to Viana do Castelo : yesterday, several autoarchs received death threats and bullets in envelopes. This happened after the beginning of the demolition process of the bull market in that city. These threats are not tolerable and obviously deserve our repudiation. There are still several changes that we need to make in animal welfare legislation. We need a network of official collection centres, with capacity, in all municipalities, to proceed with the collection and sterilization of all animals,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u414	To get rid of them!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u415	... and we also need a veterinary care programme that allows all people, as well as people with low incomes, to take care of their animals, through support and involvement of veterinary faculties and municipal veterinarians. It is also necessary to remove animals from shows and involve animal protection associations in the public response. It is with the creation of this culture of respect and animal welfare that we can contribute to the eradication of violence and abuse against animals. It is also in this culture that we find and build a more respectful unit on the planet and living beings.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u416	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u417	Mr President, Dear Members: A prior point is essential for this debate, the Free is against criminal populism. In debate, in the election campaign that we were all elected, he told those who promoted this criminal populism in various areas and sectors that he did not solve anything, that duplication and triple punishment did not lead to any reduction in crime, as we all know, and as the studies prove. I would not be consistent and would not be good with my conscience if I said that I suddenly became criminal populism in a particular area or sector. It is impossible to read the text of this petition and not be impressed by the crime described in it. Animal protection, animal welfare is a good in itself and the Free is clearly on the side of animal protection and welfare, but it is not by criminal populism and does not enter into a debate, a competition to see who is more by criminal populism in crimes against people or in crimes against animals, in crimes x or in crimes y. Criminal law should be used in a proportionate way, according to a criterion of necessity and in a sensible manner. There are a number of other instruments available to us, to control, to prevent, to educate, to social well-being, to humans too, that allow us to reduce, mitigate and prevent crimes against animals. The Free is also by the rule of law and by the independence of the Constitutional Court and it does not cease to be just because it is a crime against animals. This is a very clear dividing line between ecology and animalism. The Free is clearly on the side of ecology.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u418	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of our agenda. I now give the floor to Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha for the usual announcements.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u419	Madam President, I am going to announce that they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted to draft resolutions Nos 240 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 7. the Commission ; 241 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 11. the Commission ; 244 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 1. a and 9. a Commissions ; 245 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which drops to 1. the Commission ; 246 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which falls to 2. the Commission ; and 247 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 8. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau, and were also admitted, Law Projects No. 315 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; 319 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 6. the Commission ; 320 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 5. the Commission ; 322 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 12. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission ; 324 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which drops to 6. the Commission ; 328 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 5. the Commission ; and 329 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission. Finally, I would also like to inform you that, for reasons of prophylactic isolation, the Member of the PS Francisco César accompanied this session by videoconferencing. That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-28.u420	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I would remind the House that the next plenary session will take place tomorrow at 3 p.m. and a debate with the Prime Minister on general policy will be on the agenda. I wish you all a good night. Thank you very much and until tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 30 minutes.]]
