ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The session is open. [[It was 18 hours and 6 minutes.]] The Table greets VV. Ex. and the members of the Government present here and ask the officials of the authority to open the gates of the galleries. I give the floor to the Secretary of Bureau Maria da Luz Rosinha to make some relevant announcements.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u2	Mr. President, good afternoon to all. I will announce that they have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, Law Projects No. 50 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 51 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 5. the Commission, and 52 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 3. the Commission. Moreover, the draft Resolution Nos 31 / XV / 1 have been added to the Table. a ( CH ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 32 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 33 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 34 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 35 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 36 / XV / 1. a ( PAR ), which falls to 2. the Commission, and 37 / XV / 1. a ( PAR ), which falls to 2. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u3	Mrs. Members, we will initiate the debate, with the presence of the Government, on Portugal's participation in Permanent Structured Cooperation ( CEP ). We have today the presence of the Government, as is the norm in this type of debate, and to open the debate the Government has 7 minutes, and there will certainly be a division of time between the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation and the Minister for National Defence. I therefore give the floor immediately to the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate this afternoon could not be more timely. The moment that is living in Europe since last 24 February, as you have recalled, in front of this House, the President of the Republic of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelenskyy, reinforces the strategic relevance of Permanent Structured Cooperation on Defence, or CFSPO ( Permanent Structured Cooperation ), as is best known in the European jargon, not only for its importance for European policy, in particular for the common security and defence policy, but also for its centrality and relevance with the external policy of the European Union and its Member States. This is an area where the European Union has been developing very positively and sustainably over the past few years and that the return of war to Europe has made it even more necessary. The PESCO provides a European picture of more coherent capacities capable of equipping the Union and its members to carry out more demanding missions and to provide greater security for their citizens. in this complex international context, faced with new and unexpected threats and similar to what happens to the vast majority of our European Union partners, Portugal can only guarantee an efficient and financially sustainable response through joint investment in the development of new means and capabilities. We must therefore underline Portugal's commitment to Europe in the area of defence, clearly in our participation in the various European initiatives in this area, as is the case with the European Peace Support Mechanism, approved during the recent Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union, and which has proved particularly relevant in material support for Ukraine. Portugal's participation in the European Defence Fund and in the Annual Defence Review is also noteworthy. in this same sense, we attach great importance to the good relationship and solidarity between EU Member States in the area of defence, and we also give priority to cooperation between the European Union and NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ), avoiding duplication and placing on their complementarity, which have been widely evidenced in the cohesive and coordinated response of both organisations to Russian aggression in Ukraine. We must also remember the importance of cooperation with many other important partners for the European Union, including on other continents, by promoting an approach to the challenges and threats to our security in a global perspective of 360°. Russia's illegal and unjustified military aggression to Ukraine confirmed the urgent need to improve the military mobility of the armed forces within and beyond the European Union. It is in this framework that the PESCO project, but also the Strategic compass, adopted last March, is particularly important. The Strategic Bus is a decisive framework for the promotion and strengthening of an integrated approach to all instruments and mechanisms within the framework of the European Union's security and defence policy. A European Union that we want to be stronger and more capable in terms of security and defence and that will thus contribute more actively to transatlantic security, complementing NATO and the efforts of the United Nations, in defense of multilateralism and a world order based on international law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u5	I shall now give the floor, in addition to the opening of this debate, to the Minister of National Defence, Helena Careers. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is with great pleasure that I address this plenary for the first time as Minister of National Defence. I would particularly like to welcome the Members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Portuguese Communities, the National Defence and European Affairs, but all of them, of course. I would like to reiterate on this occasion the importance which the Government attaches to good and close cooperation with the Assembly of the Republic in matters of defence, as well as my full willingness to work with the ladies and gentlemen. Members in the strengthening of this government area. The work done in this House and by this House inevitably contributes to the approach of the military institution to society, which is a priority of this government. We have heard today in this plenary the calls of President Zelenskyy and I would like to stress once again the support that Portugal has given for Ukraine. Portugal remains committed to the safety of the European continent and to the defence of the values that are common to us. So today we have sent a significant part of military support to Ukraine which has been defined and which we hope can contribute to the defense of the Ukrainians and their cities. The threats that are being felt about Europeans are in deep change. over the past few years, the European ambition to provide the continent with a competitive and robust industrial and technological base for defence represents a gain of the greatest importance. After years of de-investment in defence, which have gradually been reverted to the last legislatures, the current moment demonstrates, beyond all doubt, the importance that European defence can have in ensuring modern armed forces, for our resilience and strategic autonomy in Europe, strengthening traditional military capabilities, new operational domains and disruptive emerging technologies. The development of European defence therefore remains a strategic priority for the Government and permanent structured cooperation is a structural part of this process. The aim is, together with the European Defence Fund and previous investment programmes, to provide European countries with strategic joint capacities and common means that meet the needs of a challenging security context. In addition, it is worth highlighting the important guidelines set out in the Strategic compass, which has already been mentioned, adopted last March by the 27 Member States: strengthening joint planning; overcoming critical gaps; combating investment fragmentation and strategic dependencies; strengthening the technological and industrial base of defence; investing in capabilities throughout the spectrum and all operational areas, with a strong component of innovation, research and development; and paying attention to emerging, disruptive technologies, maritime security, cyber security and space. in this document is also reiterated complementarity with NATO and strategic partnership with the United States. of the 60 PESCO projects developed, in the four vacancies launched so far, Portugal leads 3, participates in 14 and observes 20, covering the five operational domains. The decisions of national participation are based on the mitigation of gaps identified in the building of the system of forces, in the development and support of the capacity concerned and in the interest and capacity of the national industry. I hope I can share with you more details about these projects and what they represent for the goal of modernizing the Armed Forces, in the final intervention I will still have occasion to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u7	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now proceed to the debate. I have the information that the People-Animal-Nature party wants to ask a question to Mrs. Minister of National Defence, so you have the floor to Mrs. Inês Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am also the first time that I have the opportunity to address the Minister, I begin by congratulating myself on the fact that we have a woman in front of national defence, even because it is more a barrier of the many who still persist in relation to gender discrimination and therefore we welcome this fact and the step taken by Portugal. The question I would like to ask is very simple, Mrs. Minister. We have seen in the context of permanent structured cooperation the European Defence Agency, in particular France, to be carrying out, with the financing of the ERDF ( European Regional Development Fund ), the ENSSURE ( Energy Self-Sufficient Military Resilient Base ) project, which has to do with the decarbonization of military operations. The energy transition, particularly the abandonment of what fossil energy can be, is a fundamental step also for our country and, in this sense, we would like to know whether Portugal will follow the French example and whether or not it will decarbonize the Armed Forces, with a similar project, and will also take advantage of the opportunity to assess the risks of military tests and operations that are carried out, as well as the impact that they have on biodiversity, minimizing its effects.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u9	The honourable Member asked a question to Mrs Minister, who has no time to answer, so I will not give her the floor to that effect. In fact, traditionally at the opening of the debate, as you know, there are no questions, but in any case, you used the time you had and now you have about 30 seconds left to intervene at the moment you are in charge, which is in the very first place. You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Diogo León, of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members : Debating permanent structured cooperation is discussing the consolidation of European defence identity. This identity, which follows three fundamental principles — protecting and defending the Union and its citizens, does not leave unresponsibly the conflicts and external crises and strengthen the defence capabilities of other States our partners — has never seemed as obvious, as relevant and as necessary as it is at present, representing a demanding challenge for greater strategic autonomy of European defence. We do not lack European instruments. from the end of 2016 until now, the European Union, even if not a military alliance, and Member States have signed commitments to join together as promoters of greater European cooperation in the fields of the common security and defence policy, demonstrating an undeniable and renewed level of ambition. Today, we have a Strategic compass, already approved in the current geopolitical context, which, fulfilling the essential function of strategic concept, goes even further, pointing together goals and ambitions and reinforced in the field of action, operation and projection of forces. Today we have a European Defence Fund. Let us remember that in 2017 the armed forces of the 27 Member States had at least 29 different models and types of warships, 16 different models and types of combat aircraft and 19 different models and types of combat cars. It is desirable, through the European Defence Fund, to seek multinational or European affinities in terms of reducing the duplications — even the multiplications — of the types of means and military material serving the National Armed Forces, resulting from this, not only better economies of scale for acquisition and investment, but also greater efficiency and interoperability. Today, we have a European Peace Support Mechanism which has already produced tangible results both in military external action and in financial assistance to partners. It is enough to recall the case of Mozambique and, even more so, the financing to support the resilience and capabilities of the Ukrainian armed forces, who courageously fight for the sovereignty and integrity of their nation. Finally, in Permanent Structured Cooperation we have the guarantee of the best sum of the efforts and potential of our industries, science and research, technology, academies and intelligence, coupled with the efficiency and needs of our Armed Forces and under the impetus of European interest in the development of 60 innovative and high-value collaborative projects for the various areas of security and defence, based on the logic of dual use: from cyber to space, to processes, capabilities and means for land, air and maritime use. Portugal today leads and coordinates three projects of Permanent Structured Cooperation fundamental to our national defence capabilities. It also integrates, as a participant, 14 other projects and, as an observer, is present in more than 20 projects. It is important to question and know the general assessment that the Government makes of Permanent Structured Cooperation or the PESCO, as a European instrument, and it is even more relevant to know in particular the assessment of the progress of the last year in relation to the CEP projects and the planning and forecast of implementation for 2022, especially those which Portugal coordinates and also others who have particular interest in the national defence industries and the Armed Forces. And, thinking particularly of the military mobility project, but without excluding others, it still left the government with the question of how the CEP/PESCO projects can improve cooperation between the European Union and NATO. Ladies and gentlemen. Members : These robust instruments empowering European defence do not live in the ether of an isolated or immovable reality. On the contrary, there are to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of responses to the dynamic and unpredictable reality of conflicts, hybrid threats, the multiplicity of external risks to our collective security. The context is everything. And the geostrategic context has worsened, paradigms, dimensions and potentialities of the threat to the east and other global risks have changed. Today, in the solemn session before us, we had the extraordinary opportunity to hear President Zelenskyy, to show overwhelming and sovereign solidarity as representatives of the Portuguese people, with the tragedy of war at the doors of the European Union, in Ukraine which is Europe and which has suffered a military aggression 57 days ago and an attack on its unprecedented territorial sovereignty in our century, for the simple reason of the Ukrainian people wanting to assume, majority and democratically, their national identity and defend their sovereignty, free of foreign interference.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u12	Even so, in some sectors, in some minds, there seems to have been a fallacy or, rather, a sophistication: that democracy faces and resists threats to its security and defence in a weaker, more fragile and ineffective way than other regimes, in particular the most authoritarian ones. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But the truth, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, and what history shows us is just the opposite. They were Britain's Churchill and Attlee, France's Free De Gaulle and Leclerc, the United States of Roosevelt and Truman who won the Second Great War. At the end of the long Cold War, it was the Warsaw Pact that fell, together with the Soviet Union, and not NATO and the allied countries, who still honour and strengthen the letter of the North Atlantic Treaty, as the great defensive military organization and alliance anchored in the defence of democratic values and territorial sovereignty. It is in complementarity, partnership and cooperation with NATO that the European Union develops its defence capabilities because peace, the ultimate objective on both sides of the Atlantic, is only ensured through projection capacity and dissuasive capacity, which only gain strength on a scale in NATO or the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u14	And if the European Union is undoubtedly the greatest political, social and economic achievement and construction of our time, with the strengthening of European defence we want it also to be a guarantor of freedoms, we want it also to be a guarantor of international law, we want it also to be a guarantor of global peace. E, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's power. Quoting a great Portuguese-language diplomat, Ruy Barbosa, «if you want it is power, want it is to win». [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u15	For an intervention, Mr Carlos Reis of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister for National Defence, Mrs and Mrs. Members : To discuss permanent structured cooperation in 2022 is profoundly different from the debate we had here in April last year. After the pandemic, the prominence of cyber-threatening, the disruption of the logistics chain and the end of the campaign in Afghanistan, we are witnessing this year, at this time, the return of the conventional war to the European continent. We are facing a humanitarian crisis that did not need to have happened, and that has not yet ended, with economic, geopolitical and social consequences that will be felt for the next few decades. These transformations constitute a process of configuration of a new international order, which States must follow in the field of security and defence. Permanent Structured Cooperation is, in this context, the first step towards a European Defence Union and, if it is fulfilled, it can be a comprehensive answer to the global problems we face. The CEP provides a legal framework allowing Member States to invest in defence and improve their capacities in concerted initiatives. Portugal can, and should, take it as an enormous opportunity. For PSD, a country that has been at the foundation of NATO cannot remain in the queue of Permanent Structured Cooperation. Mrs. Minister of National Defence, last year we came to tell this House that the CEP had to leave the paper. Today, and in this context, it has become inevitable to talk about our Armed Forces and the budgeting they have been suffering, since Antonio Costa is Prime Minister. Yes, the Government that makes a commitment in Brussels to reach 2 % of GDP (gross domestic product) in defence is the same government that returns to Portugal and forgets the Armed Forces in its budget proposal. Don't bet on defense, in front of what we're living, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it corresponds to an act of political sleepwalking, drifting and strategic myopia. [[PSD applause.]] It is crucial to strengthen our investment and to understand that security itself is an indispensable prerequisite for stability and for the growth that we all want. If we do not invest in our national defense, we lose capacity to influence decisions in the external panorama, as is the case, with the discussion on the Continental Maritime Platform. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, no one can give security as guaranteed. Putin's invasion of the Ukrainian state exposes the fragility of any nation in the current international scene; it shows us how quickly any situation becomes, causing truly structural changes. Two months ago, people like us, Ukrainian citizens, free men and women, made their normal lives, took their children to school, went to work, spent time as a family. Today and now these people are armed with orders to shoot, stripped of their possessions, millions of them forced to leave the country they love. This is a reality we cannot forget, this is a reality we cannot ignore. [[PSD applause.]] In addition to the just and indispensable solidarity with the Ukrainian people, as President Zelenskyy said, there are lessons to be learned about what is happening in Eastern Europe. Our values of freedom, democracy and peace are not guaranteed at all. And it is an investment in security that provides us with this peace and stability that are vital for the development of our country. That is what we see in Ukraine: a country called to defend its freedom. With so many lives lost and the dreams that die with them, it is urgent that we ask ourselves, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, about the future we want for our continent. There are challenges that require our readiness and our response. The safety of persons and their goods is a primary function of the Portuguese State, which assumes, or must be assumed, as a guardian of the quality of life of the population. in a country with limited human resources and materials, co-adjudication among state agents is evidence for the optimization of its capabilities. The pandemic has shown the decisive contribution that the Armed Forces can make in this type of situations and scenarios. We must therefore value our military to properly fulfil the obligations of Permanent Structured Cooperation, because it is indeed our soldiers, men and women who carry with us our symbols, who serve us in the most difficult conditions and in the most adverse realities. In the face of a tragedy in the European continent, everyone questions about the future. And it is our military who will protect what the future holds for us. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Permanent Structured Cooperation does not replace NATO, nor does it replace the responsibility of the Government. The PSD advocates an effective link between the European Union and the Atlantic Alliance, without duplication of resources and without duplication of means. Cooperation towards the future, where the collective influence of NATO and the European Union on respect for peace and democratic values must continue to be the fundamental principle of their action. I shall finish, Mr President, with the words of a man of another time, but also of this land. Father Antonio Vieira said: "If you served the homeland, which was ungrateful to you, you did what you should, she what she used to do. For too long, the Portuguese soldiers lived under this fate and, when our armed forces lose, we all lose. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u17	We have been informed that two Mrs will intervene by the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival. Members, Mr Pedro Pinto and Mr Pacheco Amorim, who will share the four minutes and 30 seconds they have. Mr Pedro Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet President Zelenskyy for his brilliant intervention this afternoon in the Portuguese Parliament. Today we had almost a « 25 November », where the CFP disappeared from Parliament. He eclipsed himself, as if nothing happened. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Here, there should have been no ideology, but, yes, respect, respect for the Ukrainian people. Every time a woman, a child or an elderly person dies in the hands of the Russian invader, the PCP is with blood stained hands. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Protests by PCP MP Alma Rivera.]] Furthermore, neither should the CFP be in this debate, because it is against the European Union, against NATO and against the single currency — too few people would have done that. But since the PCP is very fond of nails, we are delighted to offer our nails, with the flag of Ukraine, blue and yellow, to the Portuguese Communist Party. Since they only see red nails, they only see April 25, they think about the Ukrainian people and think about what is happening in this Russian invader war, which you defend. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u19	So we want peace and not war.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u20	But it is necessary for the Portuguese to know that the CFP has allies here within this Parliament. The arrival proposed a vote of condemnation for the CFP's attitudes towards this war and those who criticize the communists here were the same as those who voted against in the Foreign Affairs Committee. Hidden, between four walls, within a parliamentary committee, in silence, Left Block and Socialist Party voted against, while the Democratic Social Party and the Liberal Initiative abstained. « Bad practice», they say, « bad practice ». The best practice is to say something here, in Parliament, and then to hide, to say something else. [[Congrats from the CH.]] “ Oh! You can't play because it's the PCP! Do not keep on seeking. ” PS and Left Block don't surprise us. This fine Rui Rio PSD little or nothing surprises us and the Liberal Initiative does not surprise us either. In fact, the Liberal Initiative — which did not want to be sitting where it is, but rather between the PS and the PSD — should have been between the Left Block and the PCP, because there would be, yes, it would be his place. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I know I shouldn't ask Mrs. Minister questions, but I'm going to ask two. If you want to answer now, answer, if not, you will answer on another occasion. Are you going to repudiate this PCP attitude or not? And, as President Zelenskyy has said, Portugal will, or will not, agree with new sanctions on Russia, even if this affects the energy situation in Europe? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u21	I now give the floor to Mr Pacheco de Amorim, from arrive, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The invasion of Ukraine is a tragedy, but, above all, it should be a hard lesson for all of us in Realpolitik. Whoever is not prepared to defend his borders, his way of life and his sovereignty is at risk of leaving history through the doors of the funds. Today, like yesterday or 3,000 years ago. We can and should integrate NATO, we can and should integrate CEP, but above all we can and should — it is essential that we be equipped with Armed Forces to enable us not only to be useful members of these structures but also to be able to cope with the increasingly possible imponderables in a world characterized by extreme geostrategic volatility. There is an old dilemma translated by the expression "buy cannons or butter". A well-managed state manages both things, but a poorly managed state gives to butter, and less and less. About this, we're talking and we know what's happened. The signs, as far as the current government is concerned, are very bad. It is sufficient to take into account the lack of emphasis given in this Budget to a necessary restructuring and deep strengthening of the Armed Forces. Apparently, we haven't learned anything from what's going on in Ukraine. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u23	For an intervention by the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u24	Mr President, Minister for National Defence and other members of the Government, Mrs. Members : After 24 February 2022, with Russia's barbarous attack on Ukraine, the European Union's common foreign and security policy, enshrined in the European Treaties, has taken on a stronger preponderance, as the defence of the Union and the Member States has become, for the worst reasons, a pressing concern of the citizens. Permanent Structured Cooperation is one of the mechanisms for the defence of the European Union and the Member States and, more than ever, assumes an essential role. The strategic challenges that reality imposes upon us must lead us to conceive a Europe as an active agent in building a collective defence. I would like to underline the statements made at the conclusion of the European Council on 24 March, which I would like to mention : « In order to strengthen the defence capacities of the European Union and the Member States, the full potential of the financing instruments and initiatives of the European Union, in particular the European Defence Fund and Permanent Structured Cooperation, should be exploited. » Also in this field, we must not forget that active and assertive participation will be a guarantor of the European Union as a common area of freedom, as well as a space for the free movement of persons, goods, services, capitals and opportunities.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u26	We are now witnessing developments in the European Union which show a change in European policy and defence policy. The example of Germany, which decided to invest EUR 100 billion in equipment and modernize its armed forces. On the other hand, Denmark, which has so far not participated in the European Union's common foreign and security policy, under the opt-out clause, has recently announced a referendum to become part of it. In future, this will mean that we may have another Member State in permanent structured cooperation, but we will wait for the Danish people's decision to take it seriously. In conclusion, I cannot fail to mention that we have witnessed a strengthening of European cooperation in the area of defence, and as such, we cannot ignore that Portugal and its Armed Forces are also called upon to play an increasingly important role. The Liberal Initiative will closely monitor the development of this mechanism in this Parliament, more specifically in the Parliamentary Committees on National Defence, European Affairs and Foreign Affairs, and we certainly agree with the deepening of cooperation in the area of defence of the European Union, always in conjunction with multilateral commitments, in particular with NATO, and in full respect for the sovereignty of its Member States. I finish by presenting our condolences to the Army and family and friends of the paratrooper who died today at the service of Portugal. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u27	For an intervention, Mr John Dias of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party has the floor. [[At present, the IL Parliamentary Group has come out of the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u28	Did the PCP come? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let me tell you - let us not be afraid of anything that comes to us, which is next to a power supported by Nazi forces, defends the escalation of war. [[CH protests.]] In fact, what surprises us, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, we all stand by the escalation of war, unlike the CFP, which is the only political force that defends peace! [[Shame!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u30	We will not change our path in defense of peace! [[PCP applause.]] [[CH protests.]] And we have with us the Portuguese people, who also support peace, unlike the other political forces in this House. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u31	I'm asking the ladies. Members who create the necessary conditions for listening to the speaker. You would like to continue, Mr. João Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have said, concerning the appreciation of the Arrival, that that party supports the escalation of the war.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u33	That was at 5 p.m.!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to this debate, Portugal's participation in Permanent Structured Cooperation raises two questions to us. The first has to do with permanent structured cooperation as a legal instrument for enhanced cooperation, with the aim of contributing to a European Union comprehensive strategy for foreign and security policy. First of all, we must say that the expression 'enhanced cooperation' is an euphemism, since its real intention is to deepen the federalist process of European integration,... [[CH protests.]] ... which calls into question the central role of national defence as an essential function of guaranteeing the sovereignty of the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u35	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u36	A role which the Government, in its Programme, affirms to recognize, but then, in practice, wants to deliver to others. in this concrete, Ms. Minister, the CFP considers that Portugal should not allow others, even if they are their allies, to replace it in the exercise of constitutionally consecrated sovereignty rights. With regard to the strategy, the Minister, the reality is that, at the will of the main Member States of the European Union, defence policies were put at the service of the United States of America, which resulted in a strengthening of the American military power, contributing nothing to the strengthening of Europe, as the war in Ukraine shows. In fact, in the confrontation between the so-called West and the Russian Federation, the United States of America are the voice of command,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u37	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u38	Putinists!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u39	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u40	... assuming a central and neocolonial position in front of a European Union without strategy or active voice, which hypothesized the possibility of implementing a strategy itself, if that has ever been in the thinking of its leaders. [[CH protests.]] Even because a strategy itself and autonomously would call into question European follow-up in the face of US strategic interests. The second question, Mrs Minister, has to do with the projects in the framework of permanent structured cooperation, which do not contribute to—as the Government's Programme points out—if it continues to value and recognize the centrality of people in the construction of the Armed Forces of the future, deigning the military condition, deepening the professional valorization of their military personnel and promoting their training. Mr. Minister, for the PCP, clearly, we need to take care of our human resources! [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u41	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u42	Finally, Mr President, with the following question to the Minister : how are we going to do in terms of the objective set by the Government, in its 2017 goal of reaching 2 % of the total investment in defence with national research and technology? Mr. Minister, in summary and with the permission of Mr. President, I conclude by saying: the government has left its intentions on account of the forgetfulness and brings us a hand full of nothing. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u43	You have the floor for a speech by the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Joana Mortágua. [[The IL Parliamentary Group has now entered the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u44	Mr President, Minister : Since 2015, particularly since the invasion of Crimea, military spending in the European Union has increased from EUR 90 million between 2017 and 2019, to anything like almost EUR 8 billion. Today may lead us to think that all this money was well spent, but reality calls for another reflection. An international consortium of journalists, called Investigate Europe, followed the lead of the European Defence Fund money, among others, and concluded that 75 % of the European military spending funds were dedicated to five companies. These companies operate in a matrix-type scheme, with other companies in other countries, including a Portuguese company, Edisoft, which was privatized by the PSD / CDS government and purchased by a sector giant who has a majority shareholding capital in the French State. Most of the money directed to these five companies benefits four countries — France, Spain, Italy and Germany, and often the public capital of the countries, which are the same four countries which have begun permanent structural cooperation. This research raises a question—was European military policy designed to financially support the expansion of the European military industry, particularly in these countries? — and points to corruption as the main risk. The same consortium of journalists analysed arms exports from many European countries, including those holding these companies that benefit from most European funds, and came to the conclusion that many of them had armed Russia already after the invasion of Crimea. So, Mrs Minister, I ask you: do you think it is acceptable that European money has been used to sell weapons that now turn against Ukrainians, in an illegal war and aggression? He does not think it dangerous that the increase in military spending is subject to the intervention of lobbyists from large companies in the military industry, who end up fueling illegal conflicts—an example of this is the invasion of Ukraine, but there are others! — what are they doing against the Charter of the United Nations, which is the primacy by which Portugal governs itself in its intervention and international relations? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u45	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN, has the floor for an intervention. I would remind the honourable Member that she has 27 seconds, but, accordingly, she will have 30 seconds for her speech. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u46	Mr President, I would like to congratulate this Parliament on the hearing of President Zelenskyy just now, and to regret that the ideological blindness of some political forces has led to the fact that this House has not unanimously expressed its unequivocal support. The cruelty of President Zelenskyy's words as to the atrocities being committed against the Ukrainian people, particularly against women and children, should call us all, in an unequivocal way, to be with the victim and not the oppressor. With regard to Permanent Structured Cooperation, Mrs. Minister, and considering that we look at the next State Budget for this year of 2022...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u47	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u48	I really am concluding, Mr President. As you said, given that we look at the next State budget and we see that there is a decline in the budget allocation, I ask: how will Portugal respond, either to President Zelenskyy's request for military support or to the way of decarbonisation, which we have to do, of military operations?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u49	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Dear and Dear Colleagues : This debate is a bit of a demonstration that it is possible to say, all the time, that the world has changed, but continue to have discussions as if we were in the world yesterday and sometimes introducing even polarizations that most seem to come from the world of yesterday. So, let's not move on! It is true that the future of Europe is being played today in Ukraine, because there is a battle between neo-imperialism and European unity—and, let us be frank, only with European unity is that the middle and small countries of this continent have a chance to have a word about their destiny—but the future is also playing in France, already on Sunday.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u51	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u52	Then let us also be frank: for many distances we have with President Macron, it is not with a glimpse of Putin in the European Council that we may have the desired European unity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]] But in that, we also have our differences...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u53	They're the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u54	I appreciate the applause of the PS, which have made me waste some time, before I say I have great differences with the PS and with the government. [[CH protests.]] Actually...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u55	Just a moment, sir. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let the speaker hear. You may continue, Mr Rui Tavares.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u56	Thank you very much, Mr President. In fact, we already have Putin in the European Council, whose name is Viktor Orbán. The Portuguese Government must turn from words to acts and use Article 7. that of the Treaty on European Union, so that it can vote according to its unity and not have a vote of Putin in the European Council. But the future of Europe is also at stake in forthcoming elections in the United States, away from a Trump and we have to make a very serious choice because Article 5. NATO may not be there when we want it to serve us and Article 42 ( 7 ). that of the Treaty on European Union can be the future of our common defence. Therefore, I ask you: we are prepared to do what is necessary, in terms of the rule of law and democracy in the European Union, so that one day if we need to use Article 42(7). that of the Treaty on European Union, which gives us mutual defence guarantees, is it there for us? It's just that I'm not seeing action or movement in that sense.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u57	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to the closing stage of the debate. You have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs. Minister of National Defence, Helena Careers.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I thank you for the questions you have addressed to the Government, the comments you have made and, with regard to today's topic, I will try to address some issues in these final minutes. On the different issues that have been raised and which do not directly address today's issue, we will have occasion to address in forthcoming debates. I believe that the fact that we are here and the scrutiny of the report they will have had to read is part of the effort to monitor, monitor and monitor this progress of our participation in Permanent Structured Cooperation and this is a really significant and important activity of this House. We will be very pleased to continue to collaborate in this monitoring and supervision effort. On 16 November 2021, following the review of the PESCO, 14 new collaborative projects have been added to the list of 46 existing projects that have been developing since December 2017. At the end of the fourth strike, Portugal began to lead three projects: the Cyber Academy and Innovation Hub ( EU-CAIH ), the Maritime Unmanned Anti-Submarine System ( MUSAS ) and also the Automated Modeling, Identification and Damage Assessment of Urban Terrain ( AMIDA-UT). As for EU-CAIH, already operating from the Military Academy and whose final operational capacity is planned for the first quarter of 2024, it will be one of the 12 projects to achieve concrete results by 2025. The MUSAS will reach the initial operational capacity in 2023, at the time of the system prototype presentation, and reach the final operational capacity in 2026. The third project that I mentioned, approved in the last wave of November 2021, the AMIDA-UT, was developed by the Army, in close collaboration with the Academy and the national industry, and is expected to reach its completion year in 2025. The launch meeting of this project, with the participating Member States — Portugal, Spain, France — and the observer countries — Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Germany, Lithuania and Romania — will take place this April. All these projects demonstrate a fruitful involvement with industry and the Academy, going to meet the needs of our Armed Forces in what should be the standard for the technological development of the next decades and that will not ignore environmental concerns. Within the framework of EDA (European Defence Agency) and NATO, the issue of « Green Defense » has become prominent and we are all very attentive to the environmental dimension of these projects. Portugal also integrates 14 other projects into strategically relevant areas for national interest, such as cyber domain, space, maritime surveillance and safety, training or military mobility. It is worth highlighting the project of military mobility, coordinated by the Netherlands, but Portugal is part of which, since December 2021, has taken up the participation of third States, an agreement reached during the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union, in particular the United States, Canada and Norway. In the framework of calls for projects 2021 / 2022 of military mobility, the Interconnecting Europe Mechanism for transport, Portugal has seen two proposals approved: one project presented by the Administration of Porto de Aveiro and another by the Portuguese Air Force. But military mobility, for example, is also a symbol of what European Union/NATO complementarity and cooperation means, which has also been very well stressed as a strategic objective, having been elected as a joint priority in 2017, and having already been tested by NATO in one of the largest post-War Cold exercises, the Trident Juncture 2018. It is a priority which we understand particularly well today. In 2021, six projects of the European Defence Industrial Development Program ( EDIDP ) were attended by 11 Portuguese entities, between research centres and industry, which complement the PESCO projects. As for the first call of the European Defence Fund, the successor of EDIDP, whose results we had before the summer, the Ministry of National Defence supported 11 projects. Today, dozens of entities are taking part in European programmes and projects. The number has grown, as a result of the efforts of the Ministry of National Defence and the idD Portugal Defense, in a clearly won bet, seems to us. We will continue to work to multiply, both in quantity and in quality, by inserting our defence economy actors into European value chains.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u59	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u60	This degree of national participation thus represents a very significant dimension, which is to underline in the light of the size of our country, our armed forces and our defence industry in the context of the European Union. This bet on cooperative projects and joint programmes, guided by a strategic vision that the new strategic concept of national defence will certainly strengthen, is an express priority of the Government Programme, only possible due to the restructuring work carried out in recent legislatures and that we will continue to deepen. In the year in which the revisions of the Military Programming Act and the Military Infrastructure Act are under way, it is worth stressing the effort that national defence devotes to integrated planning. We want to make the best use of these forms of integrated planning within NATO and the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, an effective and financially sustainable response to the challenges of our time requires joint investments in new means, thus ensuring more efficient defence spending — an important area for thinking about budgetary issues — in line with the concerns of citizens. It also requires us to ensure the maximum return to our defence economy: firstly, because, in this way, we strengthen our sovereign autonomy and the level of readiness of our armed forces, also contributing to the strategic autonomy of Europe ; and, secondly, as the recent study on the defence economy has well demonstrated—because, in this way, we translate the investment of defence into qualified jobs, exports, knowledge and innovation. This is the government's commitment that we are working to achieve. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21-extra.u61	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate is over. I have a lot of information on tomorrow's day, so I would ask the honourable Members. Members who remained in the Chamber for a while longer, and took advantage to present our compliments to the Government, who, in the meantime, has left the plenary. So tomorrow, the sitting will start at 10 a.m. with three debates, which will end around 12 a.m. and 45 minutes, following a set of votes. There are three series of votes, which are complex and will therefore take some time. Anyway, with your complacency, I am going to say what will be discussed tomorrow. We will have, first, the Bill No. 1 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Consecrates a package of measures of an extraordinary and temporary nature to address the effects of rising fuel prices. With this bill, Bill Nos 13 / XV / 1 are dragged. a ( PCP ) — Strategic Plan for National Food Sovereignty, 14 / XV / 1 a ( PCP ) — Approves urgent measures for the production of cereals, 15 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Measures to improve the functioning of the agri-food chain, 16 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Reduce the price of fuels through the level of incorporation of biofuels, 17 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Reduces electricity and gas VAT to the reduced rate of 6 % ( amendment to the value added tax code approved by Decree-Law No 394 - B / 84 of 26 December ), 18 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Set a reference price to combat speculation and reduce fuel and GPL prices, 19 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Extends access to regulated electricity tariff and eliminates its transitional character, 20 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — eliminates the so-called "additional to ISP" and dual taxation of fuels ( VAT on ISP ), 49 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Reduction of electricity and gas VAT to the reduced rate of 6 % ( amendment to the value added tax code approved by Decree-Law No 394 - B / 84 of 26 December ), 50 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates a cost support measure with gasoline in the activity of small artisanal and coastal fishing ( green gasoline ) and 51 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Reduce taxes on fuels and eliminate double taxation and Resolution Projects 9 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Extraordinary scheme of support for coloured diesel and marked in order to restore the price in January 2021 and 31 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Recommends that the Government promote an information campaign to enable end-users to monitor and understand the formation and evolution of fuel prices. There will then be a standard grid for the debate on Bill No 2 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Change the Budget Framework Act, which only drags the Bill No. 44 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Amends the Budget Framework Act to the provisions of the Climate Bases Act. The third debate, again with a C grid, will be on the National Reform Programme, with several initiatives being dragged, including Resolution Projects Nos 7 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Forecast in the National Reform Programme - 2022 of adaptation of the National Water Plan to climate change, as a measure to combat drought, 38 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government that, under the National Reform Programme - 2022, implement a national animal reception network, 39 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government, in the National Reform Programme - 2022, set up a free river action plan, cleared and strengthened monitoring, control and assessment of river pollution, 40 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Recommends that the Government implement a national growth programme and 41 / XV / 1. a (L) — Fundamental gains as a guiding principle for reforms.I repeat, it is a C grid, so at that time we will be around 12 hours and 45 minutes. Then there is the vote on the Rules of Procedure. I told you already. Members who will have three scripts and, I remember, there will be votes in general, in speciality and in global finals, so it will obviously be a complex, slow and with some delicacy. That is why all the Members and all the Members are asked to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, the greatest effort to make everything go well. Thanking you for your participation and your presence, I will end this session. [[It was 19 hours and 5 minutes.]]
