ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We are in a position to start our work. The session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 6 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authorities opening galleries for public access. Today there is no record of the record that the Bureau should announce. Our agenda includes three points. In the first place we will discuss the legal standards, which are two by the PS Parliamentary Group, four by the PSD, two by the Arrival, two by the IL, one by the PCP and one by the Free. In the second point, we shall proceed to the votes of the lawyers and the articles and motions for amendments which we must vote in plenary. In the third point, we will continue the discussion, in the specialty, of the Bill No 4 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2022. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Committee on Budgets and Finance for the work done yesterday, under very demanding conditions, and to say that registrations for the discussion of the rules are open. The first inscription we have is from the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, Mr Eduardo Alves. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members and Members of Parliament, the Government has taken as its aim the democratization of higher education, relieving costs with the frequency of higher education and strengthening the role of social action as a spring that drives equality of opportunity and therefore also sows and guarantees us a more just, more dynamic, more competitive future and, as a country, a more prepared future to embrace and overcome all challenges. This ambition of building a community of knowledge, which has in its qualifications a social elevator and in higher education a development engine, has also resulted in historical peaks of student and student entrances in higher education...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u3	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u4	... and at an increasing rate of schooling of the active population with higher education. This proposal of State Budget for 2022 consolidates and reinforces this trajectory, with more ambition for student accommodation, with the addition of accommodation, with beds and residences,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u6	... with more social action, reaching more students and, above all, where we most needed, in the masters, where we will be able to triple the value attributed by stock exchange, compared to the current value. Since 2015 we have been doing what is needed, transforming higher education, changing its paradigm and building an open, inclusive and attractive system. But, too, because we want and ambition to do more, we propose, in view of the trend we have already reversed, with the reduction of the tip in recent years, freeze the value of the tip for the next school year and thus avoid and cushion costs for families and students. We also propose the creation of a travel allowance, which may, in addition to the annual scholarship allocated, reduce costs, extend the scope of social action and, above all, ensure that any student displaced...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u8	... continues to be connected to your family, to your land and to your community, not without this connection, by being a displaced student. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Thus, with this trajectory of the tip and this new complement, we hope to continue to strengthen the one that has been the ambition of the PS, to continue to give all students conditions to study with dignity, extending the social base of access to higher education. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u9	To speak on the same subject, you have the floor of Mrs. Joana Mortágua, of the Block of Left.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u10	Mr President, Mr. Minister and Mrs. Members, yesterday I heard from the rostrum, Mr. Miguel Costa Matos « tearing garments» in the name of the possibilities of the son of a worker, the son of a shopkeeper, the son of a doctor may be engineer or may be philosopher, of the promise of knowledge, of freedom of choice and social mobility and of how this promise was fulfilled by higher education and guaranteed by the descent of the tips. Now, go on, what the PS proposes is to do nothing. It's not going down the tip or a penny, it's keeping the tip exactly as it is! « The mountain has bet a mouse»! I still remember the National Convention on Higher Education, organized by the CRUP (Council of Rectors of Portuguese Universities), to be closed by the President of the Republic to propose a regime pact to put an end to the tips. I still remember when several government officials, such as Pedro Nuno Santos, Manuel Heitor, Alexandra Leitão, Miguel Cabrita, endorsed the need for this covenant. I still remember when JS (Socialist Youth) defended the end of the promenades. I can only conclude that the Socialist Youth is no longer what it was. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u11	To speak on the same subject, Mr. Secretary of State for Higher Education, Pedro Nuno Teixeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u12	Good morning, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. Just a few words to emphasize the importance of the two proposals. These two proposals are important, because they are based on two fundamental motivations of what today represents higher education for contemporary societies. On the one hand, we know today that higher education contributes, from the point of view of job opportunities and from the point of view of wages, in a fundamental way, to creating opportunities for many, and this allows access to better jobs, a profession and professional development far above what would be possible, if these were not those possibilities in higher education. Therefore, by reducing costs for students and families, these proposals contribute to broadening access and strengthening investment in higher education. But we also know that important inequalities persist in access to higher education. And therefore everything that is in the direction of strengthening social action and, in particular, support for displaced students, who are perhaps the most disadvantaged, among students who access higher education, is particularly important and I therefore welcome this proposal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u13	Mr Rui Cristina of the PSD Parliamentary Group now speaks for the presentation of the rules which his parliamentary group has adopted. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD presented various proposals for amendments to the State budget in the area of health, which the Socialist Party rejected, believing that its absolute majority gives it absolute power. It is serious that the PS voted against a PSD proposal that aims to increase the accessibility of patients to health care provided by the SNS (National Health Service ), where waiting times for surgeries, consultations, treatments and diagnoses are reduced. It is also unacceptable to reject PS of the proposal in which PSD intends to maintain and increase national coverage for family doctors, because the truth is that it can resort to the accession of external clinicians, as well as to the creation of USF (family health units) model C. This when the Minister of Health stated that there are 1, 3 million Portuguese without a family doctor assigned and that this number is higher than 2015. A rejection that still portrays the policies of previous socialist rulers, who recognized in the USF model C potentialities for the retention of specialists in general and family medicine in the SNS. Finally, the Social Democratic Party does not understand how the PS voted against the proposal in which we are limited, solely and exclusively, to propose the achievement of the objectives and commitments of the Socialist Government regarding the network of continuous integrated care and palliative care. We therefore appeal once again to the sense of democratic responsibility of the Socialist Party, still wanting to believe that the promises of dialogue of the present majority were not just empty words. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u15	In proposal 984 - C, we want the Government to ensure that medical acts are carried out within the defined maximum response times and to establish maximum guaranteed response times for health treatments and additional diagnostic examinations. And, where the SNS is unable to give effective response in good time, the Government should extend the surgical vouchers to specialist consultations and complementary examinations. In proposal 1041 - C, the PSD recommends that the Government resume its commitment to assign family physician to all SNS users, thus guaranteeing them access to an assistant physician, regulating and creating pilot-experiences of family health units model C. Finally, in proposal 988 - C, we want the Government to honour its commitments and ensure, still this year, 400 new care beds continued, as well as a fair update of the values of daily patient participation in medium and long-term units. Finally, we propose an increase in the number of palliative care beds for the 500 units. Mrs. Members, these are three just and essential proposals, which aim to help the State fulfil its duty of care and guarantee universal access to health to all Portuguese, in conditions of equality and social dignity. Now, once and for all, good sense! And once and for all, we must put the real needs of the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u16	To speak on the same subject, I give the floor to Mrs Catarina Martins of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u17	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, I have asked for the floor to speak in order to quiet the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen on the right. We arrive at this debate and bring several health proposals, but none is to improve the National Health Service and its conditions or extend its capacity, all about contractualization with private individuals. I wanted to rest and tell you that I think they can be quite comfortable with the Socialist Party's budget. Well, in the Socialist Party's Budget there are also no measures that strengthen the SNS and here, in the privatization of health, there are always two ways: one way is to do what the right proposes, which is to put in the law that the health budget goes to the private; the other is to degrade the National Health Service and hope that this will naturally happen, which is what is happening. I'd like to give you some examples. The President of the Board of Directors of the IPO (English Institute of Oncology), a few months ago, in an interview, failed because he could not hire the teams he needed and was already contracting with private treatments that were always done in the IPO, because he had no teams to do them. For example, today, a very useful port would come out of the Ministry of Health, which says that we are going to share the COVID tests, and well, because this must be done at this time, but it has a particularity: in community pharmacies. If a health center wants to do a COVID test, for that, there is no funding anymore. The state's money is just to hand over to the private, and that's how it goes on. We know that there are central hospitals in Lisbon that currently catch patients who are hospitalized and their teams and go to the facilities of private hospitals to perform surgery, because they lack team members, because they lack conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u18	What a mess!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u19	They will say : it is bad will of the Left Block. But since it is not the bad will of the Left Block, I wanted to read what he writes today, Fernando Araújo, President of the Board of Directors of the University Hospital Center of S. João, in the Journal of News, about this Budget: « (...) the same State that does not give autonomy to the institutions for the hiring and does not qualify the salaries offers five times higher values than those who are available to work in the provision of services. The signal may not be the intended one, but the direction is clear and points them to the exit door, destructing, irremediablely, the SNS. Do not keep on seeking. ” As I say, the right doesn't have to worry about this budget. You know, there are two ways to cut wages: one is by law, another is by shrinking the shoulders to inflation. There are also two ways to privatize public services: one is by law, another is by letting them degrade. I think the right hand can be quiet. I, for my part, don't stay. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Protests by IL Member João Cotrim Figueiredo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u20	To speak on the same subject, Mr Luís Soares of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u21	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs State Secretaries, it is very good to debate health between the right and the Left Block, because it allows us to understand precisely that the Socialist Party is in the right place: defense of the National Health Service, in addition to the social sector and the private sector. That's our perspective. Mrs Catarina Martins, there is only one way to be in this budget: or vote in favour of a budget that gives the National Health Service more than 700 million euros, or vote against. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And the Left Block has already chosen: you will vote against. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u22	The Left Block is no longer what it was!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u23	To speak on this topic, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Health, Antonio Lacerda Sales.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, being in the House of Democracy for the third consecutive morning, in this discussion and voting on the proposal for a State Budget for 2022, is in fact revealing by itself the importance that health has in the lives of all of us. In fact, all the standards avoked today by the PSD in health matters point to what distinguishes us in the approach of these matters. The right look suspiciously at the response capacity of the National Health Service ; we make this capacity strengthening every day and modernizing the National Health Service, because we believe in it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We don't want a supermarket health, based on vulva purchases. We work for the integration of care in the National Health Service, which is not only decisive in the quality of life of citizens, but also a promoter of social cohesion. That is what moves us; what moves us is, in fact, citizens and users at the centre of the system. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] This is what we have done and that is what we undertake to continue to do, at the level of entry into the National Health Service, in primary health care, but also improving the care activity at the level of differentiated care, hospital care, and also ensuring better continuous and palliative care, promoting the quality of these care and defending the dignity of patients and their families. To sum up: this is a future budget, which defines priority areas, such as disease prevention and health promotion, improved access for all, proximity health through primary care, strengthening the hospital network, strengthening the continuous and palliative care network and strengthening human resources. This is a future budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u25	The Bureau noted a request for the floor of Mr João Dias, from the CFP, on this subject. [[Pause.]] I suppose there will be no difficulty on the side of the PSD Parliamentary Group in which Mrs Fatima Ramos intervenes later, since Mr João Dias will intervene on this subject. Please, Mr. João Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, to the right, everything that can smell the business in the area of health, in this case with the disease, leads to the submission of proposals. currently, until disease prevention is used to do business. The path is not that, but it is not that which is pointed out by the government either.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u27	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u28	The way is to strengthen health services.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u29	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u30	That's our way!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u31	The way is not to take more patients to the private, it is to have more professionals, more conditions to care for people in the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u32	Six Budgets!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u33	The response proposed by the CFP is the exclusive dedication, with incentives to fix in the deprived areas and in the areas of neglected care. There, yes, we need to give an answer. And it is not with the full dedication here proposed by the government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u34	Oh, yes, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u35	... wrapped in promiscuity between the private and the National Health Service. It is this degradation that is seen in public services. The fight is against the degradation of public services, through the exploitation of careers and wages of professionals. The fight is by valuing the population's access to health care, whether in primary health care, either in hospital care, or in continued care. What we see is that the government closes the door of the National Health Service to health professionals, but also the access of Portuguese to health care. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u36	Mr Rui Cristina, from the PSD, has the floor on this subject.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary of State is quite right, and this debate is a good example of what distinguishes us. The Government of the Socialist Party is concerned about ideological guerrillas between the private and the public and we, the Democratic Social Party, are concerned about people, with users,... [[PSD applause.]] ... with the people who are on the waiting lists, without access to continuous care, palliative care, or who are waiting for a family doctor. [[PS protests.]] As such, the Socialist Party can only vote in favour of our proposals, it must vote in favour of people. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u38	You now have the floor of Mrs Fatima Ramos of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the government, let's talk about another topic, which is the tolls. On the initiative of the PSD, a reduction in the tolls of the old SCUTs ( without user costs ) is in force. The PSD proposal, approved in the State budget for 2021, provided for the reduction of the toll rate by 50 % for combustion vehicles and 75 % for non-polluting electricity. The government, which, in the speeches, prayed only to rest when it abolished the tolls, reacted intensely and the PS gave it a lead. After the measure was approved, the Government used a subterfuge and did not reduce as approved. He showed an unacceptable indifference to the law passed in this House. in this Budget, the PSD insists that the law be complied with, to make the discount effective on toll rates of 50 % for combustion vehicles and 75 % for electric cars. We also put forward a proposal that, in the case of A13 and A13 - 1, a motorway called "Pinhal Interior" socialists and that passes in the poorest municipalities, there is a reduction. Mrs. Members, do you want or do you not want to reduce tolls, reduce context costs, increase competitiveness? Unfortunately, yesterday, the PS used the strength of the absolute majority and rejected our proposals. He makes expressions of love on the inside, but rejects proposals that can help territorial cohesion. The same is true with the government. It is a government that reports to the press 'the government wants to continue to reduce tolls with priority in the interior' ; we look at the budget and there is no proposal for this purpose. I take incentives to take public servants inside and, as a result, only 10 employees have changed, these, 8 in telework. She appreciates new services in the interior and installs the Agency for Development and Cohesion on 5 October. In fact, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, enough account announcements. Honor the decisions already adopted in this House of Democracy. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u40	We now turn to the rules of the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party, with the floor of Mr Filipe Melo.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, this is the year with the greatest increase in the cost of tolls since 2015. Brisa increased by 1, 57 %, arguing with the same rate of inflation. The government promised that, from July last year, the A22 discounts would be 50 %, but they remained for 30 %. Again, he failed with the promise to the Portuguese. But it is important to realize that this measure was approved in this House in November 2020 with the vote against the PS bench. More: In January this year, Via Verde ended up with subscription packages, creating new modalities, much more expensive for users. This affects everyone who uses mainly A22 and A28 for which we made two proposals. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] Take it easy, sir, because you guys... I'll tell you, but I'll be right there. We have made two proposals for a 50% reduction on these routes and, guess, who voted against it? Exactly, the PCP! The same ones who don't pay at the Atalaia party the taxes of the recipes that they take... [[Congrats from the CH.]] ... come to vote against the reduction of tolls, which will benefit thousands and thousands of Portuguese. Therefore, the honourable Member should not have the legitimacy to come and talk about it. He presented two concrete proposals. But besides you who have rejected this proposal, it would not be expected that the PS would not do so, and the PSD would also — it frightens us, the Liberal Initiative, which both defends cuts and cuts, and everything else, and votes against this proposal. I conclude, Mr President, saying that it is good for the Portuguese at home to know that when they pay the entire tolls of A22 and A28, they should thank the PS bench, the PS bench, the IL bench and those PCP gentlemen. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u42	The Bureau noted a request for the floor by Mr Pedro Filipe Soares on this subject. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the tolls are a blatant tax on the Algarve, on the interior and on the north of the country. And they are a gross tax because the government, or rather, António Costa, has already guaranteed, for example, in the Algarve, which was against the tolls, but they exist. The government had already said that it was in favour of reducing tolls in the interior and in the north of the country, but the reductions do not reach or, when they arrive, go out of the law, because they do not even comply with the reductions, the discounts to which the law requires. What we know is that road-trafficking increases, there is a tax that removes competitiveness from the interior and there is a country that pays, because the government does not promote territorial cohesion and the safety of populations. from the part of the Left Block, the position is unique: we are against these tolls, which should never have existed. We went against when José Socrates placed them; we went against when the PSD kept them; we are against when Antonio Costa and PS fail the word and keep this option, this tax, this abuse, which goes from the Algarve to the north of the country and which is completely unacceptable. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u44	Mr Rui Paulo Sousa, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u45	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, energy prices have been rising from day to day and you continue to not present measures capable of containing this price escalation, which goes directly to the Portuguese stock market. Portuguese families are becoming more and more suffocated and without money. If we do not act quickly, many people will be unable to acquire the most essential goods. Consider the example of gas: it has never been so expensive to buy a bottle of gas in our country. The same gas bottle in Spain costs about half the price it costs in Portugal. It is incomprehensible and inconceivable that this happens. We are from the countries of Europe which pay the most for gas and, at the same time, from those who have the lowest wages. Deep down, it is the unfortunate result of many years of socialism. If we think that about two thirds of Portuguese families consume bottled gas, then we realize the real dimension of the problem. And if we add to this the fact that many of these people live in isolated places with great economic difficulties, we see that the time to act is now. That is why we believe that, at a time when so many families are experiencing difficulties, the government should allocate €10 per month for the purchase of gas bottles to the beneficiaries of the social electricity tariff. This support must also be extended to private institutions of social solidarity ( IPSS ), institutions that provide real public service and that have also seen their energy costs increase dramatically, not often knowing how to deal with these increases. Only with these measures will we be able to mitigate the effects of this price escalation and prevent Portuguese being cut in the most essential way. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u46	Mrs Carla Castro of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group is followed by the use of the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and Members of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, we voted for the proposal to amend the status of the purse. This proposal was dropped yesterday in this House, and we believe it is now a good opportunity to restore the situation. I heard that there were simplification measures, but simplification is not allocation. There were also cases of automatic assignment, but they are students who came from secondary school, 1. the step, we're not talking about new situations, new entrances. There are many processes and most of them stayed out. I ask the following very direct question: will we continue to leave young people out of higher education because they do not have a scholarship, because they do not have access to the status of a purse? Oh, my God! We're talking about students starting studies with financial restrictions. Is this what we're gonna want? Oh, my God! We're talking about uncertainty and delay in awarding scholarships. Is this what we're gonna want? Oh, my God! There are students who don't come in, there are students who leave, there are students who don't even have the right to dream. in this House, we are talking about social elevators, equal opportunities and now we have the opportunity to make a difference. What I ask you to do is to reconsider the vote so that we can make the difference today. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u48	To speak on the same subject, Mr. Secretary of State for Higher Education, Pedro Teixeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that there is no one in this House who is not concerned about the concerns behind the proposal. This is also a concern of this government and of the two that preceded it, because there was a set of measures, in the sense of automatic awarding of the stock exchange or renewal of the stock exchange and simplification and streamlining of the procedures, which, for example, allowed more than 26 000 applications to be settled in less than one month this year. Therefore, this was in the sense of simplification. We are talking about a process that is, in fact, very complex. We have over 103 000 candidates for the scholarship this school year and therefore there is a need for the process to be reliable in order to ensure that the money is allocated to those who need it most. It does not seem to us that it is possible to do so for the next school year, and in some cases the competitions are already taking place. It is that we are not talking only about the students who apply for the national access contest, we are also talking about those who apply for special schemes and contests and who cannot be inequitable in circumstances. Therefore, our openness is in the sense of continuing to work to speed up and simplify from now on, but not for the next school year, because it does not seem feasible to us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u50	Then for the next one!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u51	Also to speak on this subject, Mr. Miguel Costa Matos, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, we have been strengthening the number of fellows in the social action of higher education, with the increase in the value of the scholarship and the creation of the automatic transition of secondary education to higher education, from year to year, from cycle to cycle. It is because we think it makes sense to end the uncertainty of the young people who apply for higher education that the Socialist Party will make this proposal viable, in the sense that students will be able to know about their status. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u53	Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I have already said in this House that we are witnessing the greatest degradation of public services that there is memory in Portugal. And, yes, I'm including periods of financial assistance. Besides, the PS wanted to have a motto for this Budget. It should be a motto related to the only two things that are sure to result from it: « maximum tax burden, services to the minimum public ». [[PS protests.]] There is no sector where this is noticed more and where it is more shocking than in the health sector, and about this the PS whistles into the air, does nothing and thinks everything normal. I suggest another motto, and they may even put it on a t-shirt: « absolute majority, absolute indifference». Absolute indifference to the degradation of public services and, in particular, to degradation in the health sector! [[Applause from the IL.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, only this indifference can justify having voted against the proposal we advocate here, proposal 589 - C, which aims to implement model C family health units. When we have more than 1 million and 300 thousand Portuguese without a family doctor—a primary health care problem—the PS does nothing. When we have a huge shortage of general and family medicine doctors—a primary health care problem—the PS does nothing. It's a problem you've been checking for years, but the PS hasn't done anything. When there is no ability to trace, diagnose, to do any kind of preventive medicine, in primary health care, the PS does nothing. When emergencies are resolved, because, in most cases, people have no response in primary health care, the PS does nothing. When there are no specialties, other than general and family medicine, in primary health care, the PS — they have already guessed! ... - It doesn't. [[All right!]] [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u55	Primary health care is the basis, I repeat, the base of the health system. If they don't work, nothing will work. According to the opinions of almost all specialists, the PS doesn't do anything. [[PS laughter.]] In the face of the suffering and pain of many Portuguese—they do not laugh, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! - The PS doesn't do anything. In the face of the grueling gaps in this system, the PS doesn't do anything. It's time to change the motto, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. It cannot be « absolute majority, absolute indifference». It is time to change this situation, it is time to change the motto, they vote in favour of the proposal we have here. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u56	Mr João Dias, from the CFP, followed by the use of the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, the CFP advocates a proposal for plenary to establish the price control regime on products of a food cassava. Mrs. Members, at a time when the Portuguese people are faced with a brutal increase in the cost of living, in order to combat this increase, the CFP defends two ways to increase the available income of Portuguese: on the one hand, the increase in wages and pensions; on the other hand, the control and fixing of prices. The proposal we are bringing here is designed to set maximum prices. Maximum prices for what? From the essential food cabaz, with a reference price for each of these products which enables the real value to be taken into account from production to distribution, also having something which is fundamental, which is a non- speculative margin. And on this, yes, it is worrying the position that the PS and the government have taken. Why is it useful to reduce taxes if it is possible to continue to show the brutal increase in prices due to the use made by large commercial areas, in particular by large distribution? Oh, my God! What we could win by reducing taxes is lost and going to the profit pocket of large distribution companies. Is that what's appropriate? Oh, my God! Otherwise, let us see: in 2021 — and, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this did not start with war and sanctions, price appropriation is already long enough — Jerome Martins recorded 463 million euros of profits and Sonae SGPS recorded 268 million euros of profits. Without a price control regime, prices to producers are broken down and the small trade is closed. And it is consumers who, with sacrifice, bear the brutal increase in product prices, particularly essential goods. Combating this increase in the cost of living implies, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, to deal with the large economic groups that are making profits at the cost of the sacrifice of the Portuguese, but it also implies, yes, defending the producers and consumers, who need to be protected. Not essential, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, and in conclusion, I want to tell you that we need a fixed regime, with real costs, which is different from the criterion of profit, and with non-speculative margins in order not to take advantage of the increase in prices. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u58	We are approaching the end of the first item on the agenda. I would therefore ask the services which operate the electronic quorum verification system, and I would also ask the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, get ready. Mr Rui Tavares has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u59	Mr President, Dear Peoples and Members of the Government, Dear Fellows, in the middle of the Great Depression, to explain the innovation that was the social security system, Roosevelt said, in one of his talks on the radio, that social security worked like this: a employer's dollar, a worker's dollar and, in case of illness, disability, death or unemployment, social security was there for those who needed it. It was not one of his best speeches, it was not one of the war speeches that we all remember, but for me it was and is always the definition of one of the best speeches of modern politics, of what really serves politics — pure political poetry! — because it means that, for those below, for whom you need, the politically organized community is there to help. I have also met a representative of this time, an heir of this time. It was not a famous policy, it was someone who lived on the other side of the street and was angry with us — rightly, indeed — when we played the ball and the ball beat in its basement window, at the level of the street. One day he found me and asked me to translate his letters from English. He had been an emigrant in the United States, he had not learned a virtually English word in the years when he lived there among our immigrant communities, but there were two words in English that she knew: social security — social security. That is why social security, which is one of the pinnacles of our civilization, is a value to preserve. We all have an obligation, and Mr Social Security State Secretary too, to be there to ensure that social security is present when someone is fired, but we also have an obligation to ensure that it adapts to the needs of our times.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u60	Sir, allow me to interrupt you. We must listen carefully to the honourable Member or to the honourable Member when speaking. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who are standing by to sit down or leave the House and ask for silence to be heard by our colleagues. Mr Rui Tavares, please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u61	It is in this sense that we advocate for debate in plenary the proposal for an amendment to the budget presented by the Book, in which it is expected that unemployment benefit and social support may be extended to some exceptional categories of people who have not been fired, but who have needed to resign. If, before, with the creation of social security, disability, death and dismissal were reasons to be with whom most needed, how could it not be with whom he is a victim of domestic violence? Oh, my God! And we know that this condition is often accompanied by a situation of dependence and even economic subjection. Giving a person the opportunity to be able to reorganize his or her life and to be there to support it in this reorganization of life is a matter of elementary justice. It is also important to support couples moving inside, when one of the couple has had a job proposal for a low-density district and the other member of the couple can follow it, so that this transition of the family can be done in the interests of national cohesion. And it is also to establish justice that workers and workers who have qualification projects can be supported, as is shown in the version of the proposal that we present today, through licenses that allow these qualifications to be met, such as finishing the degree, the teacher, the doctorate, in order to allow them to have a better job, to make more discounts for social security, thus re-qualifying our economy. In fact, it was because we have put forward a proposal as an unemployment allowance and we now present it as a license that there was a procedural debate, to which I will refer at the end of this intervention, but again quoting Roosevelt, it does not matter whether we call it ‘meat’ or ‘fish’, no matter what the worker likes. Our objective, that of all of us, when we put forward proposals, is that they can be discussed, voted and approved. in this sense, I cannot complain because yesterday we had an hour and a half of debate in the Committee on Budgets and Finance. Simply, as the colleagues who were there know, it was not a debate on the substance of the proposal for the Book, it was a procedural debate. I would like to thank all the colleagues in the Committee on Budgets and Finance for helping this debate to take place, but the truth is that the burden was not on the side of the Free, because we have always spoken only in these three categories of exception and presented our proposal for a replacement in time. However, this appeal for plenary, which, in fact, has a cost for the Free, because we only have the possibility to require two lawyers and, so, we spend half of them here and we run the risk, I hope, that theoretically, of the outcome of the vote in plenary being different from what we had yesterday in the Commission, also means that we cannot repeat yesterday's demands. But that there is no doubt that this issue has been debated by all and all, in essence, so that we can tell our fellow citizens what has always been said with social security and social support: we are next to you if you need to redeploy your life, whether you need to re-emerge yourself, whether you want to fly.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u62	To speak on this subject, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government here present, Mr Rui Tavares, of the Free, I would like to begin by welcoming you from now on to bring this issue to the Assembly of the Republic and only to regret that we were last more than an hour to discuss formal issues, rather than to discuss in depth the matter which brings to this plenary. I say this because, following the kindness of the measure, it would have been important that we actually had an opportunity to discuss this matter. Its proposal is focused on the loss of employment linkage, but there are unfortunately many victims in our country, who have always been in a context of socio-economic dependence on the aggressor and, in this sense, will not have support or access to this measure, or are in a context where what is intended is the maintenance of the job. I recall that in the State budget for 2020, precisely by the hand of the NAP, the licence was created for the restructuring of family life for victims of domestic violence, but that the Government has not yet regulated to date. It is important that the Government should not forget what is approved in this House of the Republic, especially when we are talking about the most vulnerable, those we cannot and should not leave behind. I therefore regret that we have not had the opportunity to discuss this matter. It would have been quite profitable, because we would have gone in time, perhaps, to change the rule in order to have greater amplitude to cover at least these two situations: women or men who are victims of domestic violence and who have, in fact, not made any incomes or discounts, in order to restructure their lives, or in order to ensure that the job is maintained. This is because we well know that a victim of domestic violence who loses his employment bond hardly, in the context in which he is living, will be able to recover work or follow up all vocational training. This is not a minor issue, because, in fact, the Observatory of Killed Women has given us notice that only by 2020 more than 35 women were murdered; last year, we lost 27 more women in the hands of domestic violence. We have over 20,000 cases reported to the authorities every year for abuse. This is still a scourge that will only be answered with articulated mechanisms, including spaces for support and assistance to the victim. That is why the NAP has put forward an initiative, which has already been adopted in the Commission, which aims to extend the areas « Júlia» and « Maria » to the whole country, because if we do not have prevention responses that prevent the victims from having to perpetuate this cycle of violence, we will be losing this fight that continues to be a shame, a face of violence in our country, but that has to have answers. We are going to follow the proposal for the Free, but we are making this point that there is still work to be done. We hope that the government will not forget what it is doing, which is the standard of the State budget for 2020, so that victims can also have the family restructuring license.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u64	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Madeira of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we would like to highlight the importance of measures to support the dynamisation of the interior, such as the internal programme More, in particular this amendment proposed by the Free, which represents another incentive to assist in the relocation of workers to the low density territories, in this case to accompany their spouse who had an opportunity to work in those territories. However, we must also point out that this is another measure of support for the family. In addition to these measures, this proposal for the Free will also provides support for victims of domestic violence, an extremely vulnerable risk group, and, in the critical period, it can be an important support, alongside others who have been worked by the Socialist Party, including immediate removal of the danger situation, support and follow-up to housing and family support issues, never forgetting what is being done and will have to be done in prevention. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u66	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u67	Mr President, very briefly, but still using the time available to arrive, I just want to say this: Mr Rui Tavares brings us a proposal with good and original things. Only the originals are not good and the good ones are not original. [[Protests of PS Members.]] It's true! The Socialist Party made the film of this Budget. I wanted to give my hand to the Free and to the Liberal Initiative, approving specific proposals previously agreed. Even if they violated the Rules of Procedure, I was not interested, I was interested, yes, to give my hand to the new partners! [[Congrats from the CH.]] But it was important, Mr President, to clarify a few things. He thinks that he must receive unemployment allowance not only who is dismissed but also who is fired, as if there was no huge problem of subsidiarity in Portugal! There are employers who contact all parliamentary groups every day that they cannot find people to work. What is the solution that PS and the Free give them? Increase subsidies in Portugal as if it were not a problem and that was not a matter! See that even if you reach this point: if you move to a low-density area, your spouse may be entitled to one of these benefits. The question remains: what if these people have an income of more than €80 000 per year? Or 100 000 euros a year? Or 200 000 € a year? Or 1 million euros a year? There, says the Free, we create a gifted ceiling. All right, and what kind of qualifications and training apply in this proposal?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u68	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u69	I will finish, Mr President, just say this because I think it is important: this proposal lacks a regulation that effectively implements it. The greatest irresponsibility of this Budget is the Socialist Party, which will open the door to the week of four working days, and I would like all employers, out there, to hear this! Those who have no hands to work, those who are at the door to close and those who are about to fail, would like to hear this: the PS has today opened the door to four working days a week — four working days!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u70	Mr President, I ask you to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u71	I will finish now, Mr President. When the country falls again, when it fails again, remember the Book, remember the PS, remember the four days of work! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u72	To speak on this subject, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u73	Mr President, as we have time, I will not be able to help myself with any regiment figures such as the question of the Bureau or any defence of honour, but I just want to make it clear that no proposal from the Liberal Initiative party has failed to comply with the Rules of Procedure. Let's be clear, so there's no confusion! [[Applause from the IL.]] As I want it to be clear that, both in this budget and in all the budgets of the previous legislation in which the Liberal Initiative Party was present, we have never contributed to increasing public spending, to fattening the state unbridled, without any concern with taxpayers. There are differences between us and other parties and this is one of them, such as that we do not violate the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u74	To speak, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u75	Mr President, Mr André Ventura, spoke of subsidiarity in the context of a proposal in which we are talking about supporting victims of domestic violence. I want to make it clear now, and it is important that this really be clarified, that we are talking about supporting victims of domestic violence. To speak in subsidisation or even in IRS (tax on income of natural persons) when we know the antibodies that arrive in relation to supporting the most disadvantaged, is in fact incompatible with a social rule of law, in which we support the most vulnerable, the most unprotected. [[Liar, that's a lie!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u76	There are more than 27 000 complaints of domestic violence in Portugal. Therefore, Mr President, mixing everything and bringing here the subsidiarity when we are talking about allocating an unemployment allowance to victims of domestic violence is completely incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u77	Mrs. Deputy didn't hear well!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u78	With regard to working hours, the NAP, having not submitted a proposal for the four working days per week, also advocates the reduction of working hours. It is important that we have a society where there is also time to live, time to well-being, time to family,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u79	You can reduce to three! Work three, strike four! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u80	...because, I assure you, the societies where this happens are much more productive. And it sets this concept, the economy of happiness and well-being, which is what we're going to have to defend in the future. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u81	I'm asking the ladies. Members of the incoming Parliamentary Group to take a position of cordiality, which is a minimum requirement of parliamentary work. I give the floor to Mr. Secretary of State for Social Security, Gabriel Bastos.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the seconds that I have available, I would take advantage to respond to the proposals put forward by the Book and to the considerations and concerns expressed here by Mr Rui Tavares, just to inform him that we understand and follow them.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u83	Of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u84	Therefore, as far as the victims of domestic violence are concerned, I believe that the foundations themselves are self-eloquency. With regard to the question of reconciling personal, professional and family life and accompanying spouse who travels to work in the interior, and also in the case of leave for vocational training, we believe that the most appropriate context is, in fact, to take advantage of the vocational training agreement and also to take advantage of the Internal Employment Plus programme for the allocation of increases and thus to correspond to the intentions of the proposal. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to respond to the question which you put yesterday, and which at the time I did not comment on the study of the four-day week, to tell you, Mr President, that our intention is to carry out this study with the utmost rigour, so that it can be consistent and give us evidence of the solutions to be implemented, because we know that the evolution of the labour market and the new forms of employment also require a look at these kinds of questions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u85	Mr. Rui Livre... Rui Tavares, I'm sorry. [[Laughing.]] There is no doubt that Mr Rui Tavares is free, like all the Members and Members of this House! Mr Rui Tavares has asked to use the five seconds you have less and therefore to maintain some proportionality of the failure to comply with the Rules of Procedure, I will give you the floor for two sentences, Mr. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u86	Oh, is that it now? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u87	Mr President, one sentence: an appeal to the Bureau to request that the proposal which we shall be voting for be distributed to one of the previous speakers and which spoke of the possibility that those who have a very high salary may have great support in the internal travels, so that it may, when reading the proposal — which, of course, has not yet read — understand that it has a maximum ceiling and, whatever the salary, that maximum ceiling is three IASs (indexing social support) in the movement to the interior. Whether for a high or very high salary, the roof is always the same. [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u88	Your proposal has come out of time!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u89	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the debate on the rules...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u90	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u91	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u92	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings. The Free had no time, but still Mr President gave you the floor. I believe that this is a very serious precedent to be opened, Mr President. You did not have time, so this is a situation that should not actually have happened. I would like to point out this protest by the CFP, because the Rules of Procedure are clear on certain matters and also on times. This is just one more which we believe must be met, because it was not intended to give a tolerance so that the honourable Member could conclude an idea in an intervention. This was not the case, it was the possibility of intervention when that party no longer had time to intervene. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u93	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. What has happened is that, of some interventions so far, several parliamentary groups have violated the rule of time... [[PSD, PCP and BE protests.]] ...and I tried to balance those non-compliances. But I will take good note of this more restrictive interpretation of the Rules of Procedure and apply-CL-I. I therefore thank Mrs Paula Santos for her comment. [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u94	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u95	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u96	Mr President, I just wanted to give all my support to this position that there is no right to equality in illegality or to violation of the Rules of Procedure. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u97	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u98	Mr Rui Tavares, you will have the floor if I give it to you. Thank you very much, Mr. Paulo Mota Pinto. I record these comments and thank them. Mr Rui Tavares asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u99	To defend the honour, Mr. President, since... [[PSD and CH laughter.]] Sure! I'm sorry. Oh, my God! They said I committed an illegal...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u100	Mr President, you will allow me not to give you the floor. The motions were addressed to the Bureau, which were comments on a decision taken by myself as President of the House. I have already had the opportunity to respond and thank those comments, so it is not worth prolonging a debate that has no interest. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Let us then proceed with the examination of the deliberation quorum. I ask the services to close the electronic system and advertise their results. [[Pause.]] According to the results presented, we have quorum. I will now investigate with each parliamentary group whether any Member of Parliament or some Member of Parliament have been able to register. Has anyone not been able to register in the Left Block Parliamentary Group? [[Pause.]] All of them were able to register. Has anyone not been able to register in the CFP Parliamentary Group? [[Pause.]] All of them were able to register. Has anyone not been able to register in the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group? [[Pause.]] All were able to register, with the exception of Mr Coimbra, so that it is noted that he is present. Mr. Hugo Oliveira is standing, I don't know if you want to sit down, if you want to participate in the vote... Has anyone not been able to register in the PSD Parliamentary Group? [[Pause.]] All of them were able to register. Has anyone not been able to register in the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group? [[Pause.]] All of them were able to register. Has anyone not been able to register in the Parliamentary Group of Arrival? [[Pause.]] All of them were able to register. We shall therefore begin the voting procedure of the rules of law, according to the script which has been distributed.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u101	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u102	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u103	Mr President, to alert three specific cases in the vote script, in our case — I do not know whether other parliamentary groups will have the same reality. The proposal that we are going to vote on first of all for the Free will is the addition of an article which has two numbers, and there is only one vote in the ballot box for the whole of it. However, since this is a speciality vote, there is a possibility of disaggregating the vote of these numbers, which we want to apply in this case, by voting separately on paragraphs 1 and 2. In addition, I wonder if you want me to indicate already the breakdowns that we intend to make in two other articles or to do so when we get to those votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u104	I prefer the second hypothesis, which is more practical, Mr. Mr. Miguel Cabrita asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u105	Mr President, in order to facilitate the voting process, the PS Parliamentary Group would also like to ask for the breakdown of proposal 1246 - C of the Liberal Initiative in both points.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u106	I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Members who, as we are voting, will indicate their requests for disaggregation. In the meantime, the Bureau will ensure that we are aware of the proposal of the Liberal Initiative whose vote the PS intends to disaggregate. We then begin with the proposal 36 - C1, of the authorship of the Free, of the addition of Article 99. o -A - Enlargement of unemployment benefit. There is a request from the Left Block and the Liberal Initiative for the vote on this proposal to be broken down. Let us therefore vote first of all on Article 99 ( 1 ). o -A. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, IL, BE, PAN and L, votes against the CH and abstentions of the PSD and the CFP.]] We are now voting on paragraph 2 of the same article. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS and the L, votes against the CH and abstentions against the PSD, the IL, the CFP, the BE and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 36, C2, of the Free, for the addition of Article 99. o-B — Licence for training. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PAN and the L, votes against the PSD and the CH and abstentions against the IL, the CFP and the BE.]] We shall then vote on proposal 1389 - C of the PSD to add an article 145. o-B — Toll rate discount scheme. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the BE and the NAP and IL, the PCP and the L.]] The vote is followed by the vote on proposal 1274 - C of the CFP, an addition to Article 156. -A — The price control regime on essential food cabbage products. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L.]] We are now voting on proposal 994 - C, submitted by the PS, to add an article 172. o -A— Limitation of propines in all study cycles. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L, votes against the PSD and the IL and the abstention from the CH.]] We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 1053 - C of the PS for the addition of Article 172. o -A— Travel allowance in social action in higher education. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and with the abstentions of the PSD and the CH.]] The proposal 1246 - C of the Liberal Initiative is followed by the addition of Article 172. o -A— Advance of decisions on awarding scholarships in higher education, whose vote the PS intends to be disaggregated. Let us therefore begin by voting on Article 172 ( 1 ). o -A. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall then vote on paragraph 2 of the same article. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We then have proposal 984 - C of the PSD to add an article 177. o -A.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u107	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u108	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, is it to request the breakdown of this vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u109	Exactly, Mr. President. I do not know whether there are other requests to disaggregate the vote on this proposal, but in our case we can make two votes, one for paragraphs 1 and 2 together, and one for paragraphs 3 and 4 together.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u110	If there is no objection on the part of the proposer or other parliamentary groups, we shall proceed to this breakdown of the vote on proposal 984 - C of the PSD, of the addition of Article 177. o -A— Reduction of waiting times for surgeries, consultations, treatments and diagnoses. Let us therefore begin by voting on paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article 177. o -A. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the L were rejected and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL and the NAP.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on paragraphs 3 and 4. [[Subject to vote, votes against the PS and the CFP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH, the IL, the BE and the NAP and the L abstention.]] It follows proposal 988 - C...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u111	Mr President, may I use the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u112	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u113	Mr President, Article 177. the - to which we were voting still has a paragraph 5, which has not been voted.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u114	What would it be for us without the watchful look and experience of Mr Duarte Pacheco? Open... We shall then vote on Article 177 (5). o -A, contained in proposal 984 - C, submitted by the PSD. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CFP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH, the IL and the NAP and abstentions against BE and L.]] The vote is followed by the vote on proposal 988 - C of the PSD, on the addition of Article 177. o-B — Integrated continuous care and palliative care networks. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and BE, votes in favour of the PSD, the CH, the IL, the PAN and the L and the abstention from the CFP.]] We turn to Article 179. o — Users registered by family doctor. We begin by voting on proposal 1041 - C1, from the PSD, replacing paragraph 1 of this article of the bill. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and BE and votes against the PSD, the CH, the IL, the CFP, the NAP and the L.]] We continue to vote on proposal 1041 - C2, submitted by the PSD, in the part where a new paragraph 2 is added to Article 179. o [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the BE were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH, the IL and the NAP and the L abstention.]] We shall vote on proposal 1041 - C2 of the PSD, in the part where a new paragraph 3 is added to Article 179. The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the L and votes against the PSD, the CH, the IL and the NAP.]] We are now voting on proposal 589 - C of the IL to add Article 179. o -A— Implementation of Family Health Units Model C. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the L and votes against the PSD, the CH, the IL and the NAP.]] We shall vote on proposal 780 - C of the CH, adding an article 191. o -A — Temporary reduction of the toll rate on motorway A22 ( Via do Infante de Sagres ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected, votes against the CH and BE and abstentions against the PS, the IL, the CFP, the NAP and the L.]] We shall vote on proposal 781 - C of the CH, adding an article 192. o -A — Support for the purchase of butane and propane gas bottles. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and the PSD, votes in favour of the CH, the BE and the NAP and IL, the PCP and the L.]] Thus, we have ended the voting period of the legal standards. We will begin the third item on our agenda, which is the continuation of the discussion, in the specialty, of Bill No. 4 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2022.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u115	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u116	Mrs. Isabel Meireles, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u117	Mr. President, it's just to say that I can't register.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u118	Mrs. Member, I asked that, benched at the appropriate time.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u119	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u120	Mr Hugo Pires, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u121	Mr President, this is because of the same situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u122	I will give you the same answer, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u123	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u124	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u125	It is also because of the same situation, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u126	I will give you the same answer, Mr President. Let us, then, continue the discussion, in the speciality, of the proposal for a State Budget. The first request for the Bureau's record concerns the proposal 19 - C1, of the CFP, for the addition of Article 202. -A — Control and price fixing. You have the floor to speak on this proposal, Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the scandal that is going on with fuel prices is exactly what the CFP warned would happen. by intervening only in taxes—even so, in a limited way and excluding important components of the tax burden—and, above all, by leaving prices without any control, completely at the mercy of the economic groups, from the outset of the oil industry, you were actually seeing that this would be the result. What the CFP says about this is that prices are still rising, the tax discount has already been eaten by increases in fuel and, with this, the State is subsidizing the private profit that these groups add to the millions. Of course, to the right, it was all so good. They even wanted to go further, with the bill of the crisis to be paid by the same ones as ever. But the question is whether the government and the PS will maintain their attitude to ignore the real causes of this problem. What are you going to do, after all, the PS? Oh, my God! What is urgent is to move forward, once and for all, with measures to control the prices of fuels, to have the political courage to face economic power and to prevent the speculation of those who continue to win the crisis. It is also urgent to end unacceptable injustices in the tax burden of the Portuguese energy invoice, to end double taxation of VAT (tax on value added) on the ISP (tax on oil and energy products) and with the additional to the ISP, to lower the VAT on electricity, natural gas and stock gas and to defend consumers with the regulated tariff. If the profit of Galp was EUR 457 million in 2021, and taking into account the information of the ENSE ( National Entity for the Energy Sector ) that it was the margins that explained the increase in prices, then it is of the most elementary justice that this surprise, obtained in a period of enormous difficulties for most Portuguese and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, is returned to consumers, through a mechanism such as the CFP proposes. Mrs. Members of the PS, it is not due to lack of notice nor to lack of proposal. This House has the opportunity to move forward with an effective response to the problems facing the country in this area and can do so by approving the CFP proposals. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u128	To speak on the proposal to add this article, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs, Antonio Mendonça Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bruno Dias, I have listened carefully to your statement and I have found that the proposed amendment presented by the CFP is not a lapse. It is really the honourable Member who persists in this same period. In other words, the honourable Member came to the Assembly of the Republic to propose the repeal of Ordinance No 24 -A / 2016, which at the time increased the unit rates of the ISP by 6 cents. Mr. Deputies, from here on, the portals that we have published on the subject have decreased the ISP by 21, 1 cent in the gas oil and 24 cent in the petrol. That is why, Mr President, I think that, for the sake of clarity and the course of the debate, it would be good for the CFP to withdraw this proposal, because the additional was not only reverted by 6 cents, it was reverted by 4 times more than it had been increased. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u130	Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u131	Mr President, very briefly, I just wanted to ask the Secretary of State whether the Government is committed to eliminating the additional ISP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u132	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u133	Mr. Secretary of State, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u134	Mr President, honourable Member, the additional to the existing ISP is what is allocated to the Permanent Forest Fund. If that is what you want to revoke from the Government, I must say that we will not revoke the additional payment to the Permanent Forest Fund. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u135	Mr Bruno Dias wishes to speak on the same article and I believe it is in the interest of the political debate that is taking place. I did not have time to consult the Rules of Procedure, but I trust the Benevolence of the benches. Mr Bruno Dias, you have the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a second speech on this matter just to stress that the CFP continues to insist that the central issue is that the reduction of taxes is a necessary but not sufficient issue. The central issue is price control and the fight against speculation that is happening in this area. We note that despite recorded revenues, the Government refuses to make the effort that could be made to lower the tax burden. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u137	To continue this interesting exchange of views, you have the floor of the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, who requested it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, once again Mr Bruno Dias, to clarify the additional to the existing ISP was created in a PSD/CDS government, in which Dr Durão Barroso was Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u139	It's over, it's over!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u140	It's been 20 years...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u141	This additional to the ISP is included in the arrangement of forests. The Government intends to have this additional ISP and I think the CFP too. The only thing I would like to clarify to Mr Bruno Dias now to reinforce the Government's commitment is that Mr Deputies, or any Portuguese who goes to the gas pump today to supply fuel, spends less than 29 cents per litre of gasoline and less than 26 cents per litre of gas, only for the tax relief measures that the Government has taken. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u142	We're lucky! We're very ungrateful!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u143	We moved on to Article 205. the proposed law, which concerns public housing policies. To intervene on the proposal 1260 - C, of the Free, for the addition of Article 205. o-B — Aid for the purchase of the first house, Mr Rui Tavares, of the Free, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are letting you in Portugal create a serious generational and social fracture in the property of your own housing. at the same time that we invest in rental policies, which the Free supports, the truth is that currently there is a situation in which those who have their own or family possessions can buy home and who do not have them, at the moment, can not, which means, more forward in life, not to have the own capital of having a home that allows an exchange when the family grows, a mortgage, if necessary, to cope with life rivets or to finance a project. Basically, a social and generational distinction is created that we must fight. They tell me, and it is true, that there were credit policies for buying houses that in the past may have gone too far, but we cannot make the present generations pay for the excesses of past policies. It therefore proposes the creation of a 'home aid' fund for the middle and lower classes for the purchase of the first house. This is in an attempt to control speculative prices, i.e. ceilings, so that they can participate in a fund in which the State enters the purchase of the house with the people. Until the five-year period, this money will be returned or paid an interest or, then, it will be amortized, thus supplying the fund itself for future aid, so that we will not again have, in the future, a serious fracture that goes, basically, to our middle and low classes that, for them, there is no possibility, even, to access a credit for the purchase of our own home, because only the rich is that they can.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u145	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Begonha of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u146	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the government, housing was the fundamental right of universal vocation and indispensable to the construction of a full social state more ignored by democracy. We have lost much time in the European space and in our country without giving priority to access to housing, which is today one of the greatest causes of obstacles to a life with dignity, or to the best living conditions, limiting or preventing even the younger generations from fulfilling their life plans freely. To the generations who have benefited and acceded to a public school and to higher education of higher quality and more democratized we must also be determined to fulfil their right to housing. To the magnitude of this task - which is no less than fighting a crisis of access to structural housing, which has persisted for decades - we could not respond in any other way than by making the biggest public reform, which also corresponds to the largest public investment in housing that there is memory in Portugal, Budget after Budget. This State Budget is the first of the legislature, but it is the reaffirmation of the commitment to the Portuguese that housing is today one of the greatest priorities of public investment in Portugal and that we will not return to the past. A past where the state's public intervention was reduced to the freezing of income — and there are those who want to return to it! - and the PER (Special Programme of Realisation), limited to the metropolitan areas of Porto and Lisbon, which eradicated the barracks, but without any intervention in the access of the middle classes to housing, there is even anyone who wants to return to this policy. A past where the only organized public incentive was the indebtedness of families through subsidised interest. We do not want to return to this past, because investing in housing is investing in the country and giving up people's quality of life. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But it is a recent and very present past. This was the paradigm before the Housing Bases Act and before a new generation of policies that are met in this Budget through major strategic objectives. First of all, this is the strengthening budget for programme 1. the right, to eradicate the housing shortages that reach the country, destined for those who live in situations of indignity. It is the answer to whom it is most accurate, to whom the State is even the only alternative and to whom it cannot fail. The strengthening of the public housing park, which today represents only 2 % of the total housing park — the lowest percentages of the European Union — is the second major strategic objective that this Budget responds to the creation of rental at affordable costs. The choice of investing, with this magnitude, in the offer of more affordable lease is the concrete choice of universalizing the right to housing to respond to those who have average incomes and, in particular, to young people. This is the political choice that makes the difference for those who do not want debt to be the only option, who live the precarious informal and illegal lease market without contract and without rights, who cannot live in their cities, and it is the absolute contrast of the political choice of those who would like housing to be delivered entirely to the market. It is an absolute contrast budget vis-à-vis what has already been and would be presented by the right, for whom the best ally of the liberalization of income is even the alienation of the public heritage, so in consistency they will vote against the Budget which has the greatest investment in requalification and rehabilitation of the returned public heritage of the state forever. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Associated with the major strategic objectives present in this Budget, with the expansion of fundamental rights, there are no programmes like Porta 65, which in 2021 supported around 23 000 young people, or the response to situations of absolute emergency, such as the National Stock Exchange of Urgent and Temporary Housing, reinforced in this Budget, to respond to the social exclusion of victims of poverty and domestic violence. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have chosen the path. As we have done in health, social security and education, this Budget reinforces the choice, determination and time needed to transform housing policy into a broad and socially fairer public response. And because our memory is not short, I remember in this House that the alternative, when it comes to housing reforms, is only that of deregulation, liberalization and privatization, rather than investing in housing as a real pillar of the social state, without which there is no equal opportunity or combating inequalities. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u147	To intervene on the proposal of Article 205. the -A - Institute of Housing and Urban Rehabilitation, has the floor of Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the state must assume itself as promoter of public housing and dynamiser of urban construction and rehabilitation policies, in order to extend the supply of public housing at costs compatible with the income of families. It is in this sense that the CFP proposes strengthening public investment in the rehabilitation and construction of public housing that responds to the housing needs identified — much higher, as we all know, the first survey, which identified only 26 000 housing deficiencies — to respond to workers and, in particular, to young people, enabling their empowerment. We also propose that the public estate of the State — the business sector of the State, public institutions, housing and social security areas, for housing purposes — should not be withdrawn, but should be mobilized to increase the supply of public housing under supported income and conditional income schemes. In order to ensure greater rental stability, we propose the establishment of a minimum period of 10 years in the duration of the lease contracts and the termination of the so-called "dispatch shop". In view of the worsening living conditions, the increase in costs with housing and the loss of purchasing power, as well as the increase in interest rates, it is urgent to protect the family home, preventing families from being homeless. We therefore propose: the suspension of the production of the effects of complaints from landlords' housing leases; the suspension of the expiry of the housing leases, unless the tenant opposes its termination; and the suspension of the execution of mortgage on property that constitutes the proper and permanent housing of the executed. The adoption of these proposals is essential for the realization of the right to housing, but they do not appear in the Government's budget and the question is what path the PS wants to follow. Does the PS want to respond and ensure that everyone has access to a decent housing or, then, to maintain the difficulties that persist and create difficulties for thousands and thousands of families, preventing thousands and thousands of young people from being able to empower themselves and be able to be a family? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u149	To intervene on an article 205. o-B — Limitation of amendments to the constitutional title, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u150	Mr President, Mrs Maria Begonha, I regret that she has withdrawn her dream of comfort, but housing is already being given to the market and the crisis in housing increases in the same proportion of the government's promises to resolve it. There are frescoes in Lisbon where more than half of the houses are of local accommodation. In Lisbon, as in Porto, there are frequencies in which 20 %, 30 % or 40 % of the houses originally dedicated to housing are occupied with local housing, a commercial activity that is legitimate, certainly but which brings into question the right to housing today in large cities. This was the understanding of the Supreme Court: «In the horizontal property scheme, the indication that a certain fraction is intended for housing should be interpreted as meaning that local housing is not allowed. Do not keep on seeking. ” Rent, yes, but for housing. Local accommodation, no, in houses that are intended for housing. The Socialist Party has filled its mouth to say it makes a revolution in housing. A silent revolution, because no one feels it, no one sees it, no one can feel it every day, when looking for a house! The question I would like to ask you, Madam Member, is whether this revolution of the Socialist Party is compatible with the loss of thousands of housing houses that will change its constitutional title, from housing buildings for commercial buildings, to escape this judgment of the Supreme Court. The honourable Member says that no one has any alternatives and that there are only liberal alternatives. No, Madam Member, the PS does not want to hear alternatives other than those of its liberal policy. I present here an alternative: a moratorium to allow housing houses to remain as housing houses and to prevent them from altering their constitutional title and become permanent housing houses. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u151	To intervene on Article 206. o — Contracts not subject to the New Urban Rent Scheme have the floor of Mrs Marcia Passos.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as it seemed to be wrong to extend once again the deadlines for the lease contracts concluded before 1990, this time the government has set up a new figure: that of the suspension of the deadlines.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u153	We did better than you!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u154	Who in 2012 tried to pass their contract to the new regime had to wait five years; in 2017, it had to wait eight years ; and in 2020, it had to wait 10 years. I was going to finish now, but here comes a new version and therefore a new figure: the deadlines are suspended! It is regrettable that, once again, the government pushes this burden to the gentlemen, as if the gentlemen were an extension of the State with regard to housing policies. They're not, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! They're not and they don't have to be. We can therefore only vote against and regret that even with an absolute majority the Government is able to present effective alternatives to solve housing problems in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u155	To intervene on an article 207. o -A — Update of the maximum income price limits provided for in the Porta 65 programme, and, in general, I am sure about these housing articles, I have the floor to the Secretary of State for Housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about the fundamental right to housing—and there is an apparent consensus when we talk about it—we find that there is a need to change the paradigm for decades, and that is precisely what we are doing. What we are building today is a structural reform of the increase of the public housing park, because we believe that there is indeed a lack of response to which it does not respond with restrictive market measures, but rather with an active role on the part of the State. That's it, Mrs. Member, what are we doing!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u157	That side of the Hemicycle will applaud!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u158	We are structuring a public housing park response that I apparently thought was consensual between the parties. We actually think that this is the way. Is there a failure? Oh, my God! It is obvious, the failure, and we must respond to the problem of housing that exists for our young people, for our middle class. That's what we're doing, Your Honor. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This budget brings two realities. There is a continuous investment which has been highlighted here in the answer through 1. the law, due to the active construction of affordable lease responses, through the active construction of emergency responses, is based, essentially in these years, on the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ), but which does not dispense—and we have already said so many times—of the necessary money to respond to all needs. That is a compromise. It is not a political commitment, but rather a legal commitment that is present in our diplomas and that we want to work and fulfill. When I say « we» is the government, through the IHRU (Instituto da Habitação e da Rehabitação Urbana) and, above all, with the articulation – which has been very good – with all the municipalities that have the need to give answers, who are working on their strategies and who want to resolve the issue of housing and respond to all those who need it. In addition to this structural response, which has a perennial investment, it is not a measure of the moment, it is a perennial investment, we also have a set of conjunctural measures, because we know that the problem lacks immediate answers. With all our will, we can work on these instruments and what we need is to continue to strengthen them. Gate 65 is a good example of this: we have strengthened your budget, we have a commitment to continue to strengthen it in this legislature, and we have adapted it and simplified it so that it can reach even more people. This is an example of the conjunctural measures we have on the ground. We believe that in the future these measures will be less and less necessary, because we have an ongoing structural reform, but they are important in the current context and are therefore combined in this State budget with the ongoing structural reform. Mrs. Members, we can say that we do not see houses or policies on the ground, but we do not make circumstance policy, we do structured politics, with a New Habitat Policy Generation, with a Housing Bases Act which, as the CFP mentioned, is also based on the inventory of the state heritage — that return — to put it to the service of families. That's the work we're doing. The inventory is currently under evaluation to strengthen the answers, which are already on the ground throughout the country, and not only in Lisbon and Porto, because the whole country lacks them. That is what we will continue to do, because we know that it is the essential tool to ensure this stability. We believe that, indeed, the answer to no social distinction goes through this structural reform. The honourable Member raised the issue of buying a house — and there is no opposition from the government to the issue of buying a house, of course! — and what we believe is that public investment and this principle, which we share, that we must respond to all families and that all must be treated equally, are guaranteed with the strengthening of the public housing park and with the strengthening of rental policies. To treat all equally is to have this notion and this realism that not everyone, regardless of what measures we create, will be able to be indebted. That is why it is so fundamental that we are able to create and strengthen our public housing park, because we will be able to build a perennial policy for all and that we look at every citizen according to their capacity, income and their environment. This is our philosophy, that is what is at the heart of the New Habitat Policy Generation, and that is why, in accordance with the principle, we place the essential of public investment in rental policies and the strengthening of the public housing park. Mrs PSD, we have already had this discussion in the field of expertise with regard to the NRAU (New Urban Rent Scheme ), but I would like to clarify that there is a great difference between what has been done in the past and what has been done now. The honourable Member should not have read it, but our Government Programme — which has a rule in the State budget, because we want to make a temporary commitment, which is not the end of the legislature — clearly says that we will identify families. Madam Member, with the data available today we do not have this identification and the censuses will allow us to make this crossing and have reliable data from how many families we are safeguarding. The Government programme says — listen to this, because it is important and it is the big difference! — we will ensure measures that will effectively safeguard the protection of these families, but at the same time ensure the regular functioning of the lease market. This is the big difference for what has been done in the past. We are taking up the resolution compromise, but taking into account the rental relationship that exists and the concern that we need to safeguard not only the issue of gentlemen—I know that the PSD is important, and it is also important for us— but also not to question the tenants or put them in a situation of instability. That is the work we are doing, Mrs Deputies. What we are doing in the State Budget is making a commitment that we will indeed find a solution that will certainly be different from the PSD. That is our commitment. It is a commitment of stability, of conjuncural and structural response, based on these various instruments, to ensure that at the end of the day all citizens are entitled to housing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u159	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u160	Mr. President, the grandchildren of those who today earn 1000 € and cannot pay 1000 € of income will return to thank the government's structural policy, but, meanwhile, their parents, their grandparents, have left the cities where they can no longer live today. I therefore ask whether the Secretary of State considers that the right to housing is compatible with areas of cities with 30 %, 40 %, 50 % of local accommodation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u161	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Marcia Passos, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u162	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, your words are very beautiful, indeed, but the government cannot do so at the expense of the private sector or at the cost of private leases. [[PSD applause.]] That's not it! These people have been waiting since 2012 — I repeat, since 2012! — and now that the wait is over, see the deadline. Not so, Madam Secretary of State. This is not how housing problems are solved, it is not at the expense of the lords. This is the big problem: this instability in renting only makes no one able to invest in rentals for long-term housing and everyone is opting for local housing and short-term rentals. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u163	To reply, Mr. Secretary of State for Housing, Marina Gonçalves.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u164	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, we have different understandings of how we should solve the problem of housing or how we will mitigate it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u165	In particular!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u166	So, there, we have a problem. Madam Member, we believe that the answer is a structural reform, which unfortunately has decades of uninvestment—and we must assume it! — which must be done on the ground. We actually think that. And we believe that the conjunctural measures to mitigate these effects are some of those that are in the State budget and others that are not, but are in progress. We do not think that all this should be stopped or that the issue of local accommodation is alpha and omega to solve the problems of housing. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] Mr Deputy, we have different strategies to solve the same problem. We identified the same problem and identified the need. We really want, with our programmes, to solve a housing problem, we want to give adequate response and affordable prices to all. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] The program is this, Mrs. Member. When you have these functions, you will certainly make a difference and we will certainly see the outcome of these policies. [[BE's protests.]] What I can tell you, Mrs Deputies, is that we believe this is the reform and that we will implement it. It would be different if you told me we don't even have an answer to the problem. Don't! We have a problem and we have an answer. Time will assess the implementation of this policy on the ground. Taking our positions and obviously improving our programmes, we have the full conviction that this is the way to solve a structural problem of housing right, because we agree that everyone should have access to decent housing. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. PSD Member, as far as NRAU is concerned, I'm going to hit the same key, but we really have very different positions on this. We don't just look at one side of the equation. One of the first things we did when we came to the government in 2016 or 2017 was precisely the change to clarify... [[CH protests.]] They're very nervous, because this is hard to hear. As I said, the first thing that has been done was indeed with Parliament to safeguard the stability of a wild woman who was made on the lease market. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have different positions—and we will never have equal positions! — the view we have of the lease market.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u167	Good!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u168	The vision we have is not just on one side of the equation. I agree with Mrs Marcia Steps, when she says that it should not be the private one to answer and resolve...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u169	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u170	Ah! ...But, Mrs. Member, that's what I'm saying! That is precisely what we are assuming here, Mrs Deputies. What we have taken up in our proposal is precisely to solve the problem that the State must solve. But we don't solve it at the expense of one of the parties. We do not want to solve it at the expense of renters, and that is the big difference in what we do. That is why, when we make a policy, it is so important to realize what we are doing. And that is why it is so important to have the census data — that is what the proposal says, I advise you to read it! — in order to understand how many families we are talking about and then, yes, resolve, safeguarding the effective protection of these families, as is clear and taxive in our proposal, but at the same time safeguarding that the market should function regularly without putting the burden on the part of the landlord. That's what's in our proposal. They may want to divert what is in our proposal, but what is there is something very different from what has been done in the past. This is what effectively distinguishes us and will always distinguish us: we look at a relationship that has to be stable and balanced between two parts and where one part is not so balanced. In fact, it is today much more balanced than it was when we arrived in 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u171	To intervene on Article 208. o — Subsidy to small craft and coastal fishing and small aquaculture, has the floor of Mrs Clarisse Campos of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u172	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party has, in its various governments and over the years, given unequivocal support to the fisheries sector, recognizing its economic, social, historical and even identity importance to our country. in this sense, contrary to the periods in which the sector was marginalized and underestimated, the Socialist Party has waged in its revitalization, framed it with practices where the current concerns of protection of biodiversity and habitats are mirrored, on the one hand, and on the other, of food security and quality certification. The Government of the Socialist Party has contributed to the economic viability of this activity by putting forward the re-qualification and modernisation of fisheries support structures and the transport, sale and disposal of fish. We have placed on artisanal and coastal fishing, with VAT and ISP exemptions which make the price to be paid by these professionals in the purchase of the coloured and marked gas oil be 50 % or less of the price borne by the current consumers. We have reinforced this bet by granting a subsidy to fishermen using gasoline since 2017 with support equivalent to those already applied to those using diesel,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u173	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u174	...and we started to welcome entrepreneurs in the field of aquaculture among those eligible for this encouragement. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u175	In the path of this support, given the importance that sea salt extraction has come to take place in some regions of the country, particularly in Aveiro and Algarve, the Socialist Party proposes that subsidies for small craft and coastal fishing and small aquaculture should also be extended to companies of this activity.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u176	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u177	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the exploitation of the sea economy is a brand of the Socialist Party and the proposals of this State budget make it clear that the intention to continue to bet heavily on this sector through a package of measures that will support innovative and sustainable fishing and aquaculture, as well as restructuring and modernising the fishing fleet, making it energetically more efficient, enhancing competitiveness, generational renewal and internationalization. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u178	To speak on the same subject, Mr. Secretary of State for Agriculture, Rui Martinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u179	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the proposal now tabled actually corresponds to a very particular sector which we believe should benefit from the same type of support which has been allocated to small craft fishing. Therefore, in this measure we believe that it is a very timely proposal and that it must be supported by this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u180	This was very unexpected!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u181	To intervene on an article 209. Mr João Moura, from the PSD, has the floor of the Agricultural Product Valuation Programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u182	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this proposal for the addition of the PSD has to do with the exploitation of national agricultural products, particularly those produced by small farmers. These products generally have an added difficulty in the flow and dissemination through the national territory. They coincide with low-density territories and, generally, with difficulties in promoting and extending their appreciation. The PSD contributes to this State budget for strengthening and improving the flow of these products, in particular with the application of small-produced products in municipal canteens or IPSS and hospitals. So what we stand for is an appreciation of this product and a strengthening of the State budget for the implementation of this measure. What we differ from the Socialist Party is basically this: we agree in substance, we disagree in action. The Socialist Party promotes this dissemination and promotion of local products, but does not act, decentralizes without substance, contrary to what we want and advocate. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u183	To intervene on an article 210. o -A — Amendment to the legal system for the identification of pet animals, has the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u184	Mr President, members of the Government here present, ladies and gentlemen. Members, animal protection has been the poor relative of public policies in our country over the years. However, thanks to successive amendments to the State budget, we have witnessed significant progress — fortunately! — the strengthening of the appropriations allocated. Still, we are far from the needs that have been identified. Furthermore, the Directorate-General for Local Authorities and the Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary Affairs themselves say that we are one third of the value necessary to implement the existence of official collection centres throughout the country and to strengthen sterilization campaigns to control animal overpopulation. That is why, in this budget, the NAP proposes the strengthening of this money. We propose that EUR 12 million be allocated to the official collection centres, 2 million of which are intended to control the animal population through sterilization — i.e. a EUR 2 million campaign throughout the country to combat the scourge of abandonment and overpopulation — but we must go further. We must not forget that the centres for the recovery of wild animals, which have an absolutely fundamental role in the protection of biodiversity, should also deserve a boost from the point of view of value in this budget, so we propose the allocation of EUR 1 million for these entities. As far as family support is concerned, there has been a lot of resistance to VAT down to 6 %, but it is a step that we think Portugal has to take. Until then, we have planned in our proposal to include public veterinary hospitals in the funds provided for the official collection centres, but the Government will have to consider whether, in the context of the revision of the VAT directive, the NAP leaves this challenge here! — whether or not we are going to relieve the very significant weight of food and veterinary care in family expenses. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the NAP cannot agree with a policy that is in contradiction with the value of animal welfare and animal protection. In this House of the Republic, there are those who wish to promote hunting and bullying, which is clearly at odds with the values of respect for the animal life we defend. They won't count on the NAP for that, quite the contrary. The way this House has chosen to do is to protect animals and safeguard animal life, so surely the measures that come to propose will not go away.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u185	To intervene on Article 217. o — Data interconnection, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva, of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u186	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, I am here to talk to you about the proposal to nationalise 50 % of the capital of the company known as TAP Air Portugal, or since 3200 million euros of Portuguese have been put in it, « All Pay ». The position of the Liberal Initiative on TAP is known: it should be a private company, it does not make sense to have an aviation company and should never have had this State intervention in the company. Since we arrived at the Assembly of the Republic, in the first State budget, we proposed the privatization of 100% of the capital of TAP, which had the votes against the Socialist Party, the Portuguese Communist Party, the Left Block and the Arrival. So there is a big difference between those who think that EUR 3200 million of taxpayers can be put in a company and others who think they cannot. Some feel that this position of the Liberal Initiative is insensitive, irresponsible and some even call it "wild". We think that irresponsible and wild is to put the state as a solution for everything, to play with planes, to play with taxpayers' money. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u187	The proposal we have brought is therefore not what we think should be done, or until it should have been done, but, yes, what is in line with the statements of some government officials. On 13 January 2022 — therefore, it was not so long ago — in a television debate, the current Prime Minister said that the Government was in a position to alienate 50 % of the capital and even added that there were already interested companies. More recently, on April 14, 2022, in an interview with the Public Journal, the current Minister of Finance said that a more suitable model for TAP is private, adding that it should not be managed 100% by the State. Therefore, in view of the proposed amendment to this State budget, we see no other possibility, for a matter of consistency, but for the Socialist Party to approve it. I know that the parliamentary leader of the Socialist Party, Mr. Eurico Brilliant Dias, is very upset when it comes to hypocrisy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u188	It's not hypocrisy, it's hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u189	... but in the role that was distributed to us yesterday, at the request of the Socialist Party, the definition of hypocrisy is this: « who shows something that does not correspond to what he thinks or feels». Considering what I have demonstrated as to what the current Prime Minister and the current Minister of Finance think and feel, the Socialist Party can only vote in favour of this proposal. Otherwise it will be a question of hypocrisy. I shall finish by saying to you — not to go to the dictionary I am going to another more popular place — that « anyone who does not want to be a wolf does not wear his skin». They therefore vote in favour of this proposal. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u190	Mrs. Members, let us now turn to Article 218. o — Amendment to the Code of the Tax on the Income of Single Persons. The Bureau recorded the registration of several Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen to speak. I begin by giving the floor to Mr Alexandre Simões of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u191	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to draw attention, through this proposal, to one of the biggest scandals in this Budget: not updating the steps of the IRS. Even recently the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) warned that the tax burden on labour income in Portugal had reached around 42 % of workers'income. It is already one of the world's largest tax charges. However, this budget is approved knowing that inflation exceeds 4 % and may be around 8 %. Even if the remuneration rises 3, 1 %, the loss — I repeat, the loss! — the net yield available shall be at the order of 5 %. It happens that the failure to update the IRS steps will be a brutal increase in taxes, enough for the government to do nothing. Why? Because the nominal increase in salaries will cause many workers and their families to climb up from IRS. Those who did not pay are going to pay, those who paid little are going to pay a lot, they're all going up the IRS ladder. Don't call it deducting, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, that would be an euphemism. This is, even by default, a fraud, and conscious. It is therefore necessary to update the steps of the IRS, as proposed by the PSD, and to stop this tax tsunami which, increasingly, drowns Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u192	Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u193	Mr President, the government does not increase income from inflation, but charges taxes that increase at the rate of inflation, and here is a good part of the trick that Brussels presents to comply with, or to « overcomply», rules that are not in force. We therefore propose that the steps relating to IRS deductions be updated to mitigate the loss of income imposed by the government, which appropriates much of the revenue that inflation allows. We also propose to put an end to the regime of non-standard residents, because while the Government 'parties the law against the Liberal Initiative on the flat rate of IRS, the PS serves a flat tax with tax exemptions to non-standard residents, pensioners and others who do not pay taxes in Portugal or who can benefit from such flat rate, of which the PS thinks—and well! — that residents in Portugal should not enjoy because it is unfair. It is a regime of privilege and we want to end it. Finally, another example of government generosity, which studies and studies—in fact, only in this Budget were approved some five or six studies of anything. It's very common, it's very fashionable! — but, in the midst of so much study, it has not yet been able to find a way to tax the cryptoactives. Regardless of future crypto regulations that are necessary, our contribution to ending this offshore is to subject the crypto to the same rate as the equivalent yield gains. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u194	To speak, Mr. Miguel Cabrita of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u195	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the State budget for 2022 responds to the main challenges we have today, without dropping the structural and long-term priority of incomes of people and families. We have—of course! — to respond to the crisis caused by the barbarous invasion of Ukraine and we respond by mitigating its impact. But the Budget also assumes the imperative to maintain balanced public accounts, not to allow an imbalance to now compromise the ability to respond to the crisis and, in the medium term, the margin to continue to increase income and inclusive growth. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, even though not everyone recognises it, over these years it has also been the balance of public accounts to create conditions of external and internal trust to make the path that we have been following sustainable. One of the cornerstones of our commitment to trust with the Portuguese is the structural priority to people's incomes. That is why we need to respond to the emergency and maintain the sustainability of public accounts, but we do not abdicate measures to combat poverty, to combat inequalities in the income of middle classes, the most disadvantaged, young people, families with children. This has been the way since 2015, a progressive, safe and sustainable path that results: the increase in minimum wage, the increase in pensions in every year, the end of the IRS overtax, the increase in family allowance, tariff reductions in public transport, school textbooks and so many other examples as important or more important than these. This is a path from which we never deviated, nor with the initial mistrust, external and internal, to the right or in the crash of the pandemic, nor will we deviate from it in the future. That is why the minimum wage has increased seven consecutive years. Since 2015, 40% rose nominally, almost 30% in real terms, being the largest, longest and most sustained ever increase. It has increased every year, it has continued to increase even during the pandemic, during which — it is said — unemployment has never increased by 8 %. What a contrast to the management of the previous crisis! This is why, this year, the minimum wage has increased by 6 % by 40 € — the greatest ever increase! — that we always meet the goals that we have proposed to achieve in this area and that we speed up even the pace of the growth of the minimum wage. But it wasn't just the minimum wage that went up. Since 2015, average wages have risen by more than 20 % in nominal terms, 15% in real terms. More wages, more income. What a contrast to the previous period! over these years, instead of the announced cuts, the pensions also recovered income and rose almost 10 % in real terms. What a contrast to the cuts — the facts, the tempted and the promised — even in the paid pensions that come from the right. This year, pensions increase again. They have already increased and, with this Budget, there will be an extraordinary increase for all pensions up to 1108 €.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u196	Yes, 33 cents a day!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u197	It will be EUR 197 million for almost 2 million pensioners, with retroactive to January—a major support at the time we live. But it is not only through wages and pensions that we invest in income sustainably, and that is why this is a path that we are also deepening in this State budget, from now on in the IRS. The budget we are discussing deepens the progressive fiscal relief of the middle classes and the most disadvantaged, strengthens the progressive taxation and supports families with children. It achieves these objectives — in addition to having measures for young people and the poorest families with children — by increasing the minimum subsistence requirement for €9415, thus extending the number of people and families with lower incomes who are exempt from IRS. Do it, too, with the unfoldment of steps, creating two steps: in the income just above the minimum wage and also for the middle classes. And do it, again, with the strengthening of deductions for families from the second child, up to 6 years, up to 900 € per year. These advances in the IRS are not an isolated step, they are part of a comprehensive, consequent strategy of several years and now with measures to mitigate the impact of the crisis and the transitional inflation of the present, but also integrated with other income support measures. From now on, as the Government announced, with the discussion, at the point of conclusion, of a national agreement on wages and incomes - and so important it would be to have a national agreement on these matters.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u198	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u199	These advances in IRS are therefore part of our path. We did not reach the debate on wages and incomes yesterday or today. We don't promise everyone everything. We do not hypothesize the future and the horizon of confidence and security that the Portuguese recognise. On the contrary, we fully comply with our commitments and govern in accordance with our programme, not in accordance with the programme of others. This is also what the Portuguese expect of us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u200	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Madureira of the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, housing is the first right of any citizen. Knowing that a disabled person often faces the first barriers to mobility in his own home, the PSD understands that it is the duty of the State to create mechanisms that reduce costs with the adaptation of his homes. It is for this purpose that the PSD submits this proposal, enabling disabled people to deduct to the collection the amount corresponding to 30 % of the value supported with the adaptation and requalification works in their own and permanent housing, acquired without recourse to credit bonus, up to the limit of 800 €. This proposal has done some justice to people with disabilities who work in their homes to adapt them to their needs and because the protection of all people with disabilities must be a universal design, we believe that it will deserve the necessary consensus in this Assembly of the Republic. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u202	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Castro of the Liberal Initiative has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u203	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, the subject under discussion is the proposal for the inclusion of the IRS. Companies are the real drivers of the economy. Poor capitalisation is a chronic problem in Portugal, one of the biggest obstacles to economic growth, the creation of wealth and, consequently, the well-being of all Portuguese. The problem is also recognised by the Government, particularly in the State budget report, where, for example, it recognises the problem of structural subcapitalisation of Portuguese business fabric, and in the same report the Government includes an entire sub-chapter dedicated to the dynamisation of the capital market. This is where the difference between theory, or what is written, and practice begins to arise. It is then that this bill provides for the mandatory inclusion, within IRS, of income obtained from securities. This measure, I insist, is at least contradictory. If, on the one hand, the Government seems to recognize the problem, on the other hand, it submits this proposal to the Assembly of the Republic, a measure which discourages investment in companies, removes foreign investment, penalises our capital market, which is already weak. All of this adds that the revenue perspective is EUR 10 million. These EUR 10 million, if we are to analyze the cost of opportunity, correspond to a much higher cost than the benefit that could come from here. In addition to all these arguments, there is an additional argument that we have not commented on in this House, but for which several prosecutors have warned, since October, that is the possible unconstitutionality of this measure. We must not forget that, with this measure, there are taxpayers with higher gross incomes who can obtain lower net incomes than others with lower gross incomes. The unconstitutionality of this measure, if it were not for other principles, would be enough not to move forward. How can the government thus implement a tax policy measure that is already serious, which places taxpayers in this paradoxical situation of encouraging lower income? And isn't this possible unconstitutionality enough? Is she not enough reason, I insist, not to move forward with this measure? We therefore ask for a frank reflection on the goodness of this measure, which is serious for the capital market, for diversification, for the saving and investment of families and, above all, whose rejection does not compromise the Budget — which was one of the characteristics also set out here by the Government — because EUR 10 million do not compromise the Budget. So let us at least avoid an unconstitutional measure. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u204	Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP, now speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u205	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, one of the central issues raised in the budget debate is the issue of fiscal justice. Those who have the least and earn the least must pay the least and those who earn the most must contribute. This is the meaning of the proposals presented by the CFP, which are therefore proposed to lower labour income taxes. We propose an increase in the minimum of existence in the IRS, below which the IRS exemption applies, amounting to about €400 above what is presented by the Government. We propose the thawing and increase of the specific deduction, i.e. from the parcel down to the overall income for the calculation of the rates, allowing a partial recovery of the real income loss that represents the freezing of this deduction since 2010. We propose to update the limits of the IRS steps, considering the expected inflation in this budget proposal of 4 % - and that it will exceed that value - and not the 0, 9 % that the Government presented in it. We also put forward proposals in this area that allow not only more revenue for what is needed but, from the outset, more fiscal justice: the elimination of several exemptions from the IRC Code (tax on the income of legal persons) and the Tax Benefit Statute, with a view to ensuring that profits made in Portugal are effectively taxed in the country; the extension of compulsory income to all incomes over €7000 / month, in order to end with inequality in income tax on its origin rather than its value; the end of the tax status of non-standard residents, whose tax expenditure amounts to more than €890 million, which, in addition to constituting a profound tax injustice to the detriment of Portuguese taxpayers, has brought serious negative consequences on housing prices. We also propose the creation of the 10. the IRS step, for collectable incomes greater than €250 000 annually, consolidating the additional solidarity rate in the IRS table, and stress that it is necessary to tax and combat transfers to offshore, to end PPPs (public-private partnerships) and with this expenditure of more than €1,3 billion per year, which goes to the economic groups, creating a regime that prevents extraordinary profits from dealers in financial rebalancing of PPPs, and to create an extraordinary contribution on unexpected profits of the insurance sector. These are the proposals presented by the CFP in this Budget. For economic groups and their shareholders, for those who worry more about the end of offshore than at the end of the month, there is a scandalous regime of privilege that cannot continue. We know well that there are those who talk a lot about the taxes of the poorest to open the way to the tax bubbles they want for the richest. For the CFP, with the proposals of the CFP, fiscal justice is an indispensable response, which can be realized and built. So there is political will. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u206	For an intervention, Mrs Helga Correia, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u207	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Amendment No 1391 - C adds a new paragraph to Article 84. the IRS Code for household charges. Without prejudice to the need to create other responses to support informal caregivers in the home, such as the extension of home support to health care, the PSD intends to submit this proposal, which aims to recognize the expenses incurred by caregivers with work contracts and to support people in the home, so that they become comparable, for the purposes of IRS, to household charges and thus to extend tax support to informal caregivers. The approval of the proposal will provide fiscal support for informal caregivers, on the one hand, in their hard and exhausting task, which is to care for one person 24 / 24 hours, and on the other, will minimize the undesirable institutionalization of these vulnerable people in residential homes. So be the PS able to approve the PSD proposal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u208	The use of the word, for an intervention, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, of the Liberal Initiative is now continuing.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u209	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, in recent weeks, we have heard a lot of talk about companies' unexpected revenues and profits. Normally, this speech comes from the same political forces that think that the profits of companies, all of them, are expected or not, are always unwanted. The profits are unwanted, the losses are basically unwanted of what they don't really like, and what they don't want is from companies. But we'll talk about it the other day. This year, we're going to have a different type of unexpected recipes that few talk about. It is the additional tax revenue as a result of inflation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u210	How few are you talking? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u211	Inflation will allow the Portuguese state to raise between EUR 1000 million and EUR 2000 million in 2022. The state will benefit from more revenue, not because the economy grows, but because the prices of things will grow. They are between €100 and €200 more for each Portuguese, in taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u212	And the economy is growing!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u213	For a family of four, the state will look for between €400 and €800 plus taxes this year due to inflation. These are tax revenues that come directly from the Portuguese handbags in the form of loss of purchasing power. Inflation is an invisible tax which can be good news for the public accounts, but it is bad news for the accounts of 10 million Portuguese. [[Applause from the IL.]] The government knows that. The government, although not responsible for inflation, knows that its revenues will increase thanks to inflation. The government also knows that this inflation will result in a real wage loss for the Portuguese. The government knows that a 7 % inflation, such as the one we had in April, would be equivalent for the Portuguese to lose a holiday allowance. But the government does little to close this up, as well as cosmetic measures. It presents many measures, which are well placed in speeches, but which have little impact in reality. And the government could do several things. The government could respond to this as an employer, increasing public service salaries with unexpected tax revenue from inflation. But we remember that when the Public Administration had an unexpected financial problem, this financial problem ended up being paid by all, public and private officials. at that time, the Portuguese, public or private officials, had to pay together for a financial problem of the Public Administration. [[Applause from the IL.]] That is why it is fair that, in the face of a symmetrical scenario of unexpected revenues from the Public Administration, they are all Portuguese, and not only public servants, to be compensated for their loss.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u214	This is done with wages!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u215	When we have an unexpected income due to inflation, an inflation that puts families in place, it is fair that this revenue from the State is used to reduce the tax burden of all Portuguese people, whether they work in the public or in private, as in the past, when there was an unexpected problem, all Portuguese had to contribute to solving this problem. So for weeks now, we have challenged all parties to join us to a measure of fundamental justice, of reducing IRS rates at income levels below half a member's salary. We will continue to defend the virtues of our original proposal for the single rate for all, but, in order to solve this short-term problem, we have met the two main concerns of other parties regarding the single rate. First, the fact that the single rate reduces the marginal rate of the highest levels. This measure only reduces the lowest marginal rates. The second concern is the possibility of the single rate subtracting the necessary resources from the State. This measure costs less than the increase in tax revenue next year and would therefore not require any reduction in expenditure compared to the previous year. Even if we do not agree with these concerns, we clearly choose to meet your concerns. Now it's your turn. Now, it's your turn to meet the concerns of the least won Portuguese. I hope that all parties in this House will approve this measure, that they will be able to meet the expectations of workers who earn less than half our salary, adjusting it to cope with inflation. If your concerns about the single rate were even genuine, if your commitment to workers is even genuine, if your concern about inflation is really genuine, then I know that today we will approve this proposal to place all people who earn less than half our salary with the same marginal rate of IRS. Many in this House will not understand this, but for those who do not inherit, for those who do not have family ties, the only hypothesis of social mobility is through the income of their work. Portugal has one of the biggest tax burdens on the work of the OECD. To tax in this way the income of work is to stop the social elevator. To charge incomes below half of ours with rates as if it were millionaire incomes is just immoral. It's time to change that. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u216	Mr António Topa Gomes, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u217	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the State Budget Act for the year 2021 provides for tax penalties for the taxpayer who owns property, and will pay it at a time of serious economic crisis, especially in the tourism sector. I am referring to the situation of a landlord to decide to withdraw a property from the local housing activity, which is severely penalized from a fiscal point of view. In fact, considering that the deductible charges in the local accommodation activity are added to the taxpayer's income, in the year in which the property is transferred from the local accommodation activity and in the following three years, the law creates a double penalty for the taxpayer. The measure overturns the most basic principles of tax law, treating the same amount now as expenditure, or as revenue — if any — as income, but which does not even exist. All this injustice adds a supposed political will to transfer real estate from local accommodation to residential accommodation. As far as tax collection is concerned, this government seems to create a new popular maxim, which is: « Don’t look at what I say or what I do! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD laughter.]] The proposal for the PSD is simple : the repeal of Article 3 ( 10 ) and ( 11 ). that of the IRS Code, because they are inadequate and unjustifiably penalizing taxpayers and contrary to what seems to be the government's policy in this area. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u218	For an intervention, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u219	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the IRS part. I would like here to stress the conclusion, with the approval of this State budget, of a measure of greater justice, which concerns the reduction of IRS for all families, in particular for the families of the middle classes. Mrs Mariana Mortágua, Mr Bruno Dias, we know what we have done in recent years. I mean, too, ladies. Members, that the reduction in the IRS that we are doing and that we are completing this step reform means only this way, a relief of EUR 500 million for Portuguese families. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD, forgetting what you did in the past, come here to say that you want to update the steps of the IRS surprises me just by the hidden way you do it. But the gentlemen. Members come here to ask for the update of the IRS steps is something that makes me more confused. Why? The update of the steps of the IRS is provided that there is no structural change in the tax, provided there is no change in the limits of the steps, creation of steps. We did the update at the inflation rate. What we are now doing is not updating the inflation rate, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we are doing much more than that, we are lowering taxes for the middle class, reducing taxes for those who earn up to €60 000. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What are you guys doing? PSD members do it is a trick,... [[PSD Member Protest Helga Correia.]] ...a trick that surprises me, because they don't update the steps that are in force. The gentlemen. Members hold on to the reform of the steps we are making now, and that we have not yet adopted, and update it at the rate of inflation. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this has no qualification in terms of proposal. What we want to underline is that, through the steps, we are clearly reducing taxes. One Portuguese who earns between €20 000 and €25 000 per year has, with the reform of the IRS, a tax reduction of 9 %. This is the reality! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]] Then there's the reality of deductions. Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not doing an update on the specific deduction, but we are continuing what we started with the updating of the personalizing deductions. We started by doing so with the deduction of dependents — replacing the family quotient, as they remember, and correcting this enormous injustice that the right has done, in which one of the wealthiest children is worth more than one of the poorest children — and we are, with deductions, doing something very important here, in this bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u220	It doesn't make any difference!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u221	We are increasing the age of children who may have an increase of €900 in the deduction from 3 to 6 years. And we're doing more, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. We are comparing civilian affiliates to dependents for the purposes of IRS, correcting a huge injustice there was. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u222	It's no use!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u223	And, yes, Mrs. Members, since the PS entered the government at the end of 2015, the minimum of existence has risen from €8500 to more than €9400, which is what is proposed in this State Budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u224	Who's proposal? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u225	This extraordinary update we do, we do it because the update we agreed on was an update we considered insufficient. Today, because of this measure, more than 170 000 family aggregates will be able not to pay IRS and I think this is a good achievement. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I want, therefore, to end by turning to my left, saying, Mr. Members, who are not ashamed of what they have done, this reform of the IRS can also be credited to you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u226	You can't be proud of what you're doing now!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u227	We are concluding it and that is good for Portuguese families. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u228	Until the end! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u229	Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, I heard the eloquence with which he invited everyone to join Mr. Deputies and the Liberal Initiative to reduce taxes on those who receive half the salary of one Member. That is what you invited us to do. I begin by saying the following: the proposal that you propose to reduce taxes for those who earn half a member's salary by €1760 per year. But, Mr Deputy, for you, who is a Member, falls by €2575. This is your proposal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[IL protests.]] This is because what you put forward in your proposal is really not a single rate. There are new IRS steps, there are five steps. What you never say in your speech is that when you lower tax rates up to €25 000, you are not only benefiting those who earn up to €25 000. As marginal rates, everyone who receives more than €25 000 has this benefit. [[IL protests.]] That is why, Mr President, your particular benefit is greater than that of someone who earns half of a member's salary. [[P.S.'s applause.]] For it is, Mr. Member, your social justice is that those who earn 900 € have the same rate as those who earn 1900 €.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u230	It looks like Albania! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u231	That is your social justice! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[IL protests.]] I respect you, Mr. Deputies, but I sympathetically decline your invitation, because your invitation is an ambush. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u232	So much demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u233	On the unexpected revenue from the State, he has now found that the State will have unexpected revenue due to inflation, but he has forgotten to say that the State's expenditure will also increase through inflation. I will even skip that part and go to your intervention, Mr. The honourable Member has not quantified, but said that between EUR 1000 million and EUR 2000 million is what will be the unexpected inflation gain. I begin by saying to you, Mr, that the measures in the Budget to tackle inflation amount to EUR 1800 million. Only those measures, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u234	That's right! Open... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u235	But I will tell you more, Mr President. The EUR 2000 million increase in the revenue provided for in this State budget as far as it was concerned...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u236	You don't know the numbers!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u237	Mr...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u238	Mr. Secretary of State, there is no dialogue. Mr Secretary of State has to continue his speech. In fact, you already have a number of requests for clarification, so continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u239	Let's keep going, then. With regard to the budget implementation of 2021, the current revenue perspective is an increase of EUR 3000 million. He does not ignore that in 2021 we had not yet recovered the economy from the fall in GDP (gross domestic product), so that is not a comparison that can be made. But you can make a comparison to what we predicted in October. In October we had a forecast of about EUR 2000 million in tax revenue. Within these tax revenues, Mr President, there are two major headings that contribute: one has to do with the IRS, which does not relate to inflation, but to the increase in the average wage... On the other hand, with regard to the OECD study, he only quoted what was right for him. He did not mention that the OECD study says that the average Portuguese wage has increased even more than 3 % in the last year. As you do not realize the progressiveity, you do not realize that when you increase the average wage, you also increase the effective average rate, but it increases less. But to conclude, Mr, the EUR 1300 million increase in VAT tax revenue is the only amount that you can say about inflation. Of these, Mr President, 400 million result from the basic effect of revenue growth in the previous year and the 900 million, granted by Mr Deputy, come from inflation. I shall finish by saying that EUR 900 million comes from inflation and EUR 1800 million from measures in the Budget to combat inflation. That's it, sir! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u240	Mr. Secretary of State has three requests for clarification, which I assume you would like to answer in a bloc. The first request for clarification lies with Mr Alexandre Simões of the PSD, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u241	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I am surprised to see you make a demonstration that is at risk only in the following: confronts reality. So it's purely theoretical. What happens is that there is now a forecast to increase nominal income by 3, 1 % — 4 % of projected inflation is already guaranteed, but it can prudently reach 8 % — and what will happen is that any employee will rise on the IRS scale. Therefore, there is either an upgrade of the step or there will be an increase of the IRS for all families. Mr. Secretary of State cannot prevent this from happening. It therefore faces the reality and accepts the PSD proposal in order to mitigate this brutal increase in tax. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u242	Mr Bernardo Blanco, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u243	Mr President, Secretary of State, my question is quick. Mr. Secretary of State spoke of 500 million returnees in the context of the reform of the IRS steps. By the way, I knew my head, but I came to page 61 of the report and the whole IRS package is 210 million. The reform of the steps is EUR 150 million...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u244	You don't know the numbers!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u245	... it is not 500 million, it is 150 million — seven times less than TAP. Therefore, or magically appeared EUR 350 million or so, again, the report is wrong. So it was only this doubt that I would like you to clarify. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u246	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u247	Mr President, I would like Mr Secretary of State to explain to me why the flat rate applied to Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto is unfair — it is self-inflicted, we call it a tax self-inflicted — when, if you leave the country for five years, return to Portugal and declare that here only half a year, you can pay a flat rate either for your work income or for your pensions. I would therefore like to know whether in this case the tax ruling and injustice are no longer applicable to you and whether this is no longer of concern to the Secretary of State. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u248	To reply, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u249	Mr President, let me begin by saying that I do not think this is the seat for us to debate the regime of unusual residents, but we can do so. In any case, I just wanted to point out to you that the honourable Member must credit the fact that, on the left hand side, we have gone to tax pensioners, which was something that was not provided for in the scheme of unusual residents and that it has become taxed. But in other circumstances, Mrs Deputy, we can certainly discuss this regime in greater depth. Now we're discussing the IRS regime. Mr Alexandre Simões, my theme is this: what the PSD is presenting in this proposal is not an update of the inflation rate steps because, if that was what the PSD wanted to propose, the PSD would have to go and look for the seven IRS steps that are currently in force and update them at an inflation rate that they have defined by 4 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u250	Ah! It's 4 %!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u251	But that is not what you are here on the proposal, Mr President. What is in the proposal is the following: Members hold not on the seven steps to update them, but on the nine which we are proposing and alter the limits of the nine that we are proposing. That, Mr President, is not an update on the inflation rate. Mr Bernardo Blanco, perhaps I was not clear enough in the matter: the reform of the steps of IRS, which starts in 2018 and ends in 2022, as a whole, is more than 500 million euros, is 385 million euros...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u252	That's 210!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u253	... concerning the reform of the steps in the 2018 revision, and it is now 150 million. Only here is 500 million euros. In total IRS tax relief measures, since 2016 to date, are more than EUR 1000 million. As far as this year is concerned, Mr. Member, if you are to read the report very carefully, you will see that IRS measures are not only on the steps, you have IRS Young, you also have tax deductions...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u254	We don't cheat on numbers!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u255	... increased for families and also has the guarantee for childhood, which will allow, especially for many middle class families, that all receive at least 600 € child allowance, either for family allowance, or for IRS deduction, and, to those who have neither incomes that allow them to have family allowance nor incomes that allow them to reduce 600 €, the State returns the difference and ensures all children 600 € deduction. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u256	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u257	Mr President, finally, the left-wing majority has broad backs and I just wanted to remind Mr. Secretary of State that the left wanted to end the regime of unusual residents—I always wanted to! Mr. Secretary of State may think that the State Budget is not the time to discuss the IRS, I think so. The government was exempt from pensioners' income and held the exemption until it could no longer, only having ceased to exempt because it could not bear the international shame that there were countries like Finland and Sweden accusing Portugal of being an offshore pensioner. And it was only when they threatened to break double taxation agreements that the government withdrew and taxed 10 %. It was not a left-wing majority, because there is no left-wing party that can agree to this regime. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u258	Mr. Alexandre Simões asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u259	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u260	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u261	Mr President, just to clarify that the PSD has made a proposal for an amendment to the State budget proposal. Therefore, we have complied with the Rules of Procedure. I know that strict compliance with the Rules of Procedure is rare in this Parliament, but we are doing so, and I would like to make it clear that it was with this intention that we put forward the proposed amendment on the proposal from the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u262	Mr President, I cannot understand the scope of the inquiry on the conduct of the work, but its intervention is recorded. We then move on to Article 219. the proposal for a law — Addition to the Code of the Tax on the Income of Single Persons. Mr. Miguel dos Santos Rodrigues, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u263	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the concern about the valuation and the increase in the available income of the Portuguese has gathered many moments of this debate of the State budget, and I am glad to say so. in this bench, we know that this problem is closely related to one of the structural deficits that this country still presents, that of the qualifications, that is, the true obstacle to the social elevator. But that's the same barrier that we're happy to solve. We solve this when we build, over many decades, a network of universal public schools and tend to be free of charge. We continue to solve this with the dynamization of a network of quality public universities that compare to the best in Europe, and with a system of social action that truly blocks the block, strives not to leave anyone behind. But it is also necessary to ensure that this investment in qualifications has a real and concrete reflection on the salaries of those who choose to study. On the one hand, it must be so, because it is fair that those who decide to study also have the reflection and expectation of being paid for the knowledge they acquire and, on the other hand, because, with the lack of incorporation of graduates, teachers and doctors that our economy still has, this country cannot even afford to take any other option. That is why the Government has decided, in this exercise of the State budget — and well! -, expand and automate the project of IRS Young, as we greet. But we also considered not to go far enough, because there was a risk of leaving out many of those who decide to invest in their training earlier, particularly in the 3rd. the cycle of studies. That is also why this bank opts to present a proposal for an amendment extending this system to doctors up to 30 years old. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that this measure will not be a silver bullet, which will not solve all the problems of all wages, we know that, but this is an important block in the construction of the social state we want and in the construction of the lives of the younger ones, because it is not territorial, because it is even for all generations, because it is even for all the young people, regardless of where they are born, who are not discriminated against in this measure according to their postal code, but are, yes, rewarded by their qualifications, by their efforts and, above all, by their work. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u264	I'll only spend 3 seconds talking about the conduct of the work. Considering the missing articles and the interventions already entered, I believe it is expected that we will be able to conclude the sitting until 14 p.m. and therefore propose that we continue until the end of our agenda. You now have the floor for an intervention on the proposal of Article 223. the -A - Tax on extraordinary profits, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u265	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the European Commission has already admitted it, the OECD has already admitted it, the IMF (International Monetary Fund) has already admitted it, Antonio Guterres has already released the alert: there are excessive profits in energy and profits companies that are directly associated with price increases. Everyone knows it, everyone says it, only the Portuguese government doesn't pretend to see it, because it doesn't want to bother Galp, EDP (Energy of Portugal ), or the big energy companies. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are curious because the government has so much talent, has so much technical and creative ability to save a few changes — there are varied vouchers for everything it likes, there are pilot projects, there are inheritance scraps, there are VAT reductions only on a portion of the invoice and only when consumption exceeds one part — then there is so much ingenuity and cannot invent a tax on the excessive profits of electricity. That's why, sirs. Secretary of State, Mr. Members, the Left Block would like to make a contribution to the government and propose that an additional IRC be created on the excessive profits of retail and energy companies. Inflation cannot be a license to profit and I am sure that the government will succeed in applying this rate. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u266	To intervene on Article 227. o — Addendum to List I annexed to the Added Value Tax Code, Mr Joaquim Miranda Sarmento, PSD, first of all.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u267	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, budgetary policy must try to be countercyclical in order to let automatic stabilizers operate. in this sense, the PSD proposal, which was part of our electoral programme, is the temporary reduction for two years of the VAT rate of restoration from 13 % to 6 %. The goal, for two years, is to help recover a sector that will have been most affected by the pandemic, given the strong restrictions to which it has been subject. This reduction in the VAT rate will allow for an increase in the margin of producers and will thus contribute to the financial and economic improvement of this much affected sector, so we believe that it is a countercyclical measure of automatic stabilizer that should be adopted. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u268	Mr André Ventura of the CH Parliamentary Group now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u269	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, recently Mrs Maria Begonha of the Socialist Party said, of the rostrum: « On our part, of the PS, it is clear the way we want to go and we have already chosen the way. And it is true, they have already chosen the way, it is the way of bankruptcy and the way of fiscal asphyxiation. [[All right!]] [[PS Members' laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u270	That's the truth the PS has already chosen. But let's go to data and numbers. Mr. Secretary of State, Portugal has 9. the most expensive electricity of the European Union — to 9. the most expensive electricity of the European Union! These are numbers, they're not inventions, I repeat, 9. the most expensive electricity of the European Union. In addition, of course, we paid 5. the most expensive gasoline in Europe. These are facts, the facts to where the Socialist Party brought us. Since the beginning of this crisis, the government has always been zigging, preferring to give vouchers, or « AUTOvouchers », or to say that they eliminate the additional of this or that or say that it was the right-wing government of 20 years ago that made any change. One day we will have here the reference to Salazar, which also changed something, and it is always the fault of everyone but yours. But, Mr Secretary of State, I have some bad news for you: only VAT decline can solve some of the structural problems that we have in terms of segments of the economic market. Therefore, the arrival proposes the reduction of the VAT of the restoration and please do not come again with the history of Mr. Prime Minister, who always says that it was he who lowered the VAT of the restoration. [[And he's gone!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u271	Mr. Secretary of State, all right, but it was in 2015 and not in 2016, and therefore I think it's time to realize that we're in 2022. We have experienced a very serious crisis of COVID and 60% of these establishments may fail in the near future.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u272	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u273	Therefore, Mr. Secretary of State, the fall in VAT of restoration is not a tax fetish, it is the logic necessary to help these companies, at the moment, recover. That's what they need. [[Congrats from the CH.]] We are talking about one of the sectors most penalized by the crisis, by all crises, the crisis of COVID, the food crisis, the crisis of intermediate segments, all of them! Therefore, if we really want to help this sector, as AHRESP has already said (Association of the Hotelaria, Restoration and Similarities of Portugal) and all the catering associations, there is only one measure: it is to lower the VAT of the restoration. Let's stop inventing remedies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u274	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u275	It is very simple and it is easy to do, what it takes is political courage to face it. But the arrival goes further and proposes the exemption of VAT in the transmission of essential goods, temporarily. Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party and Members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Members of the government also wanted to give you the numbers of the framework we are currently in. Some of the essential goods have increased the price by 50 % in the last three months; the DECO (Association for Consumer Protection) yesterday did a study on the food cabaz and says it has increased by 22 € since February. We are talking about the most essential goods for people and, therefore, the exemption from VAT in the transmission of these goods is more than just to be able to face the crisis we are experiencing. These are two very simple and easy-to-see measures: the fall in the VAT rate of restoration and the temporary exemption of VAT in the transmission of essential goods, which all families have to consume.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u276	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u277	And now, Mr Secretary of State, I take this moment to question you about another trick that the government will have to face. Today, at the time we are speaking here, the Court of Justice of the European Communities has declared the road contribution illegal. Yes, the road contribution in which the PS has so strongly insisted and that so much defense has been made here in Parliament. It's $2,6 billion that gas stations can now go get. And why? Because the mess of never dropping the VAT has given up on this and now we're going to have court action behind court action to recover a contribution that today, at the time we're here, the court has ruled illegal. I wonder how the government will solve this and if it will, once and for all, pick up what it has to take, i.e. if it comes down to VAT. That's what the Portuguese ask you to do. That's what gas pumps want, that's what supermarkets want, that's what families want. Stop inventing, drop the VAT! It's very simple and easy to solve. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u278	For an intervention, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u279	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, two notes: firstly, I begin with the last question which Mr Ventura put — and which perhaps stems from the reading of a newspaper of the day and little more than that — to tell you that I have little habit, or at all, of commenting on processes that are not yet completed. But I would like to say something to Mr Ventura: I think that no Portuguese is going through the head — much less in the context in which we are — that some gas station will ask the Portuguese State to return the contribution of the road service that the gas station paid to each of the Portuguese. I don't think anyone's going through that. And on the other hand, it does not go through his head that, even if each gas station was to ask for the refund of that contribution, it would then return to each of the Portuguese people the contribution it paid them. Therefore, Mr President, the Government follows all proceedings very closely and has the expectation that the rule of law will prevail and therefore we respect it. But, as I say to you, it does not even happen to us that any gas station will ask for the refund of a value whose cost has affected each of the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u280	Let's see! Let's wait! You'll see the wrap!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u281	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I am even a little moved when I hear the right to talk about the restoration, because in 2015 I did not see the same right to approve the reduction of the VAT rate for the restoration. I didn't see it! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u282	The same thing again? Oh, my God! Again 2015? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u283	More: I don't need to go until 2015, just go to 2019. One of the relevant points in the electoral programme of the major opposition party was the VAT of the restoration and on that they said: 'Well, the VAT of the restoration must function as a butcher, so it must be at the maximum rate, at the normal rate, so that, at times we need, we can lower it at the reduced rate. Do not keep on seeking. ” Well, what the PSD now proposes is the following: as we are at the reduced rate, then, there is no tin, let's go down even further to the reduced rate. It doesn't make sense. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not accept a lesson in this matter. We made a very important decision in 2016 to deal with a sector-wide margin problem, both resulting from increased demand, resulting from increased tourism, and also from the reflection of the policy we have had — and that we have — of increasing the national minimum wage, which has a very large effect on the restoration sector. This VAT reduction was fundamental to increasing employment in the restoration.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u284	What now? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u285	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, more than the right, which is proposing a temporary reduction in the VAT of restoration, I believe that the Government and the Socialist Party are entirely at ease, because there is even a definitive reduction in the VAT rate of restoration. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u286	For an intervention on the same subject, Mr Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u287	Mr President, I just want to tell the Secretary of State very quickly: firstly, I believe that you are reading the newspapers of the day, because it is our obligation to be informed, but I would like to give you just one information, that who is in this process, exactly the same, of the road contribution is a gas pipeline. So, come here and say, "will someone think that a gas station is going to court? When this process involves a gas station, is it the same as saying that Parliament exists? » When we are all here, sitting in Parliament. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. Secretary of State, I'm sorry, but it doesn't make much sense what you said and you have to tell the truth. I would therefore ask you to at least reflect on the words you have spoken, because the government may have a very serious legal and legal envelope here. Don't devalue her, because she's probably going to have to face it. Secondly, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to tell you the following: it is a bit regrettable that you have come here with great enthusiasm to talk about the IRS, to show all your ability to argue and explain—and that it went well—and that, on VAT, what you have to say to the PSD and to the Arrival is that in 2016 it was so and you are very happy with it. Mr. Secretary of State, the restaurants are not waiting for 2016, the bars are not waiting for 2016, they are suffering now, at the moment we are here, and they liked a government action, which was passing only temporarily down the VAT of restoration. It was so simple, so easy and so fair for these sectors, that it is even difficult to see such an irreducible government in this matter. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u288	To intervene on the proposal of Article 227. o-C — Amendment to List I annexed to the VAT Code, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u289	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a luxury to live in a house with thermal efficiency in a country with enormous energy poverty. It is a luxury to EDP’s profits when our country pays both for the price of electricity, and it is luxury taxes that the State charges on an essential good as electricity. On behalf of justice in this energy distribution, in the name of reducing the country's inequalities and combating energy poverty, we propose that the Government attack the abuse that EDP practices in electricity prices, but also do its part and reduce the VAT rate on essential goods, such as natural gas, electricity and stock gas, because what is an essential good must be at the minimum rate. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u290	Let us now move forward to Article 231. o — Amendment to the Seal Tax Code. Mr. Arthur Sovereign Andrade of the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u291	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the worsening of the seal tax rate is at stake here, and what the PSD proposes is very simple: that it be added to the body of the standard that is excluded from this aggravating the contracts already concluded and implemented. Unless this proposal is accepted, in addition to being faced with socially reprehensible and politically condemned facts, we have created a terrible legal obstacle. I am highly esteemed by the Secretary of State and, therefore, I will not call this legal aberration, I will call it something strange. Why? Because it violates the issue of nonretroactivity of the law, violates the principle of trust, the principle of certainty and legal certainty, etc. etc. etc. What's going on? Since the AT (Tributary and Customs Authority ) is duly linked to the law, in terms of reservation of law and preference and prevalence of law, when acting, it is not enough for it to have a prior law to permit, it is necessary not to offend the block of legality. Now, by offending all these principles, and I will only exemplify, some, any tax act that here will be challenged by illegality. We are in time to avoid this, adding the words that the PSD proposes, and therefore it is a matter of common sense. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u292	To speak on this subject, Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, Antonio Mendonça Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u293	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Artur Soveral Andrade, I would like to thank you for your intervention and I would like to thank the PSD Parliamentary Group for introducing this proposal, because I think it is correct and goes, in fact, in line with what has been approved in recent years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u294	After this moment of concordance, Mrs Vera Braz of the Socialist Party has the floor to speak on the proposal for an article 231. o -A — Amendment to Law No 70 / 2021 of 4 November.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u295	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Portuguese economy, faced with clear objectives and a path towards achieving these objectives, opposed, over recent years, several pessimistic estimates and opposed a right that desired the failure of this path, because it demonstrated that it was possible to increase income, increase investment and reduce public debt without austerity. The year 2020 brought us together, but in 2021 we returned to this growth path, in a demonstration of the resilience of our economy, of our workers and of our companies. And once again, in the face of negative estimates, we were surprised: in the first quarter of 2022, no, we did not stop, accelerate, and even we were the country with the greatest economic growth in the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have had the contribution of domestic demand, private consumption, but exports have also accelerated. In 2021, Portuguese companies returned to extraordinary growth, strengthening their international recognition, and this is a recovery that cannot end. The internationalization of our companies, which is virtually inseparable from investment, research and development and innovation, which enable our companies, which guarantee the labour market, which make them competitive in the external market and which ensure their sustainability, is a fundamental factor for the development of the Portuguese economy. But we know that companies face difficulties when venture into new markets, which means adopting solutions to mitigate risks to which they are exposed in international trade. The Socialist Party, aware of these difficulties, wants to be part of the solution and promote international trade policies in the field of foreign trade policy, which catalyze Portuguese exports. It therefore presents a proposal for tax relief by exempting export credit insurance policies from the seal tax, among other export support operations, making a permanent transitional measure, which was adopted during the COVID-19 pandemic control period. The Socialist Party believes in Portuguese companies, recognizes their capabilities, but also their difficulties, supports their development and even whether Portugal is in the front line, with a strong strategy, open to internationalisation and promoting our economic growth. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u296	The next recorded speaker is Mr Rui Rocha, of the Liberal Initiative, to speak on the proposal for a Article 232. o -A — Amendment to the Code of Special Consumption Taxes. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u297	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard here today, Mr President, that the amendments and the reduction of taxes on fuels have resulted in a reduction of 20 cents, more than 20 cents, both in the price of petrol and gas oil. It is unfortunate that the Government has taken time to take these measures and that it has been entertaining the country with the « AUTOVoucher », but that means, Mr. Secretary of State — that is the good news — that the proposals and liberal measures which lower taxes, contrary to what the left said at some point, bring benefit to people and have allowed, as it has been said, to go down to petrol and gas, more than 20 cents of the price that is paid in the petrol pump. Mr. Secretary of State said so, and I believe it is true.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u298	It's cheap! It's at the price of rain! It's a bell!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u299	So now the challenge we have to put is that this low tax, which benefits Portuguese in petrol pumps, is extended to a sector that needs support in this sense, because it goes through difficult times that we all know, with the increase of both energy and fertilizers. I am referring to extending the tax reduction, in particular of the ISP, to the coloured and marked gas oil. Therefore, our proposal is to extend this reduction—which is a good measure, still insufficient, but which has benefited Portuguese in general—to the coloured and marked diesel, placing the ISP in a value that will be close to that which was in force, for example, in the troika times and which corresponds to about 27 cents per 1000 l of fuel. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u300	The Secretary of State for Tax Affairs has the floor for an intervention on the same subject.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u301	Mr President, Mr Rui Rocha, I have listened carefully to your statement and let me say two things to you: firstly, and answering your last question, perhaps to reassure you, you have asked us to put the agricultural gas oil with the ISP at the time of the troika. But, Mr, that is exactly what we did two months ago when we downloaded the ISP from the agricultural gas oil. It's exactly at pre-trogic levels. That is what I have to inform and naturally ask the honourable Member to do his best to confirm this. Secondly, as regards the reduction in fuel and we are playing « AUTOvoucher », we will try to focus the debate and, respecting the difference of ideas, to present the arguments. Mr President, the IMF, in a report now two or three weeks ago, criticized those countries which, in order to cope with the increase in the price of fuels, were lowering taxes. And what I was recommending was subsidiarity to deal with this increase. This was the suggestion of the suspect, for the Liberal Initiative, IMF. What I am saying to you, Mr President, is that the 'AUTOVoucher' has reached more than 3 million people and, contrary to what your party has said, there was zero bureaucracy. In addition, in less than 48 hours, it allowed each Portuguese to pay a subsidy to cope with the increase in the price of fuels, which happened on account of consumption in a supply station. As Mr Rui Rocha knows, and I think he will follow me, money is really a good thing and therefore the 'Autovoucher' was a means to provide a monthly allowance to the Portuguese to deal with the increase in the price of fuels. I do not know whether you have benefited, but 3 million Portuguese have benefited, firstly every month, from €5 and then €20, to be able to cope with the increase in the price of fuels. We have now put forward a measure, which is temporary, Mr President — and this distinguishes very well what the Liberal Initiative stands for and what we stand for, which is normal — to deal with the escalation of the price of fuels, which remains very high. Mr President, we are actually committed to the climate and energy transition. We do not forget the challenges of the green pact. We do not forget that environmental subsidies are really about to end. That is why fuel taxation must be aligned with sustainability challenges. Mr President, there is no social elevator that resists a world that has no sustainability. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u302	We now refer to Article 234. o — Transitional provisions on oil and energy products. Mr Hugo Costa of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u303	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the debate on fossil fuels should be dealt with without the usual demagogy. Of course, the green transition requires an increasingly strong bet on renewable energy and energy independence, rather than on polluting energy. It is not enough to talk about sustainability, we need to act with fiscal justice and fairness. Fossil fuels cannot also be looked at as those who see them only on the side of taxes, defending the margins as natural of the market, or as those who defend the administrative fixation of prices, regardless of the international market, forgetting that the differential will generate tariff deficit and that deficit will be paid by someone. So let's go to the facts. The COVID-19 pandemic and the subsequent crisis of raw materials, alongside the war in Ukraine, had inflationary consequences, and of course highlighted energy. The macro scenario is clear: Portugal is the country with the highest economic growth at European level — 5, 2 % — but it is also the country with the most energy and economic independence vis-à-vis Russia. Exceptional times, however, require exceptional responses to mitigate the geopolitical effect, in particular what has been done on families, businesses and jobs. Since the ecological transition cannot be made at the expense of the most vulnerable, we have EUR 1, EUR 8 billion for these measures, of which outstanding: reduction of the ISP, equivalent to the VAT rate, to 13 % and return of the VAT ISP – measures which together and being transitional, amount to EUR 287 million; suspension of the carbon rate, amounting to EUR 360 million; subsidy to companies to compensate for the increase in gas by 30 %, by 0, 30 € / litre. These proposals aim at a solution to the ecological transition, combating inflationary pressure. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u304	The same theme is followed by Mr Nelson Brito of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u305	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, within the vision that is defended for Article 234. I would like to say that these proposals are already contained in the objectives of a 2021 law. Moreover, the regulatory entity is finishing the definition of the methodology, precisely in order to be able to allow the Competition Authority to propose the fixing of the maximum margins. But in a recent past in September, there are those who voted against precisely these margins, which now call for them to be fixed. I mean the Arrival, which voted against the Bill No 109 / XIV / 2. the, as well as against other proposals put forward here, and at the time called for « leftist and economic control proposals ». It is therefore important to say — by paraphrasing what we have often heard here — that the Portuguese outsiders must once and for all realize that there are politicians who are wrong. So, ladies and gentlemen, I end by using the expressions 'Portuguese outside' and 'policies that deceive' to say that the arrival is that there are politicians who deceive the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u306	We now turn to Article 236. o — Amendment to the Code of Municipal Property Tax. Mr. Francisco Rocha, from the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u307	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, Amendment No 1092 - C, which the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is debating, aims to correct the current inconformity of draftings, allowing the exclusion of the rules for the evaluation of urban buildings to buildings and buildings directly affecting the production of livestock income. Without this amendment, these buildings, although they may be located in rustic land, are not excluded from evaluation for the purposes of the IMI Code ( municipal property tax ). This is therefore a fair measure which is added to the measures contained in this State budget as regards agriculture, food and fisheries. This is a State budget that sees its reinforced allocation, which gives continuity to the path followed since 2016 and which continues the challenge of achieving compatibility sustainability, competitiveness, self-sufficiency, exports, resource management efficiency, transparency in the relationship with the consumer and transfer of knowledge and technology to the sector. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, in a period as difficult as the one we are going through, these are the priorities that we cannot help but encourage and that this State budget underlines and highlights, without excluding anyone. The primary sector, the agri-food complex, agriculture, food and fisheries are strategic for this Government and for the PS Parliamentary Group. No one is indispensable, especially in the context of pandemic, drought and war, the consequences of which this government has sought to combat and mitigate, promoting a wide range of measures and mobilizing significant national and European financial resources. Yesterday we had the good news that Portugal will have a further EUR 51 million, originating in the second pillar of the CAP ( common agricultural policy ), which joins the EUR 27, 3 million coming from the State budget and the crisis reserve, to support our farmers, farmers and fishermen. Mrs. Members, Portugal has managed to resist and to be resilient. We must increase our food autonomy and ensure a fair and inclusive transition to an increasingly sustainable agriculture and fisheries. This State budget is on the right track, and that is why we have to move forward. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u308	You now have the floor to Mrs Mariana Mortágua from the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u309	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, EDP sold six dams in Douro for EUR 2200 million and mounted a tax planning scheme to avoid paying taxes. There are EUR 110 million of postage tax to be received and which may expire — it is a responsibility of the government, which did not charge them, but at the moment we have no news of them, and we also know that the Tax Authority tried to charge the IMI to EDP, but inexplicably returned to arbitral tribunal. So what we propose is a clarification. EDP and Engie are not above the law, they are not above justice. If you have dams on your balance sheet, you profit from them and you can do business and trade them, then you must pay IMI. Our position is exactly the same as the Tributary Authority in the past, which we want the law to clarify. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u310	To speak on this subject, Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, Antonio Mendonça Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u311	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, we fully agree that all taxes that have to be paid are the same irrespective of the taxpayer in question. I don't think this has any discussion. In addition, as you know, the process you talked about, and we have always given the information, is a process that runs, and I have the expectation that it will be solved by who is law, who is not the government. As for the proposal of the Left Block, we do not have a position of principle on the topic of the incidence of the IMI. In fact, I have already sent in writing all the documentation concerning the understanding that the Tributary Authority — I stress, the understanding of the Taxation Authority — has on this matter, and I have respected it. With regard to the proposal you make, Mrs Deputies, it does not resolve the situation that you want to solve, in accordance with the information I have and which I have requested to be seen by the services, both by the Centre for Tax Studies and by the area of heritage. The honourable Member is putting the issue in the exemption article, when it is an issue of incidence, i.e. of qualification of the building for tax purposes. That's the information I have. As I said a few weeks ago, in committee, a PSD Member, we are available to find the right solution to make that tax. I believe, moreover, that it is a compromise of the Socialist Party Members elected by the Bragança electoral circle, and it is a matter on which we should work. I repeat, therefore, the information I have is that your proposal does not solve this situation, but the availability of the government is, of course, to follow up on the work of the House so that we can come to a solution. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u312	You have the floor, on the same subject, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u313	Mr President, it was the Tax Authority itself that understood that the dams were classified as a building and that is why the Tax Authority tried to charge this tax. That was the understanding of the Director-General of the Tax Authority, and that decision was not repealed. Simply when the arbitral tribunal arrived, the Tax Authority gave up and did not even try to argue with EDP. Mr. Secretary of State has this dubious position: he does not say what the Government understands, he says that the proposal has a problem, he does not say how the problem is solved and he is not willing to do anything, hoping that nothing will be resolved. So I ask: what is the position of the government? And if you have a proposal to solve this problem, and above all you have the contribution of the Centre for Tax Studies and the Tax Authority, then bring a draft to the Assembly of the Republic, so that the Assembly will resolve the issue of the IMI of dams. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u314	You have the floor, on the same subject, Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u315	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, I have no doubt, I have a responsibility, which is the responsibility of knowing that there is an entity, which is the Tax Authority, to whom the tax can be settled and which takes its measures. It is not up to a member of the Government to make public interventions that may, in some way, frame the decisions that only the Tax Authority should take.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u316	Change the law!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u317	I repeat, I have had the opportunity to send to the Assembly of the Republic those views, which have been sanctioned by the Tax Authority. Mrs Deputy, sometimes the solutions seem simple for complex problems. What I am saying, ladies and gentlemen, is that we have recently intervened in the IMI with regard to wind farms and we already have a huge dispute, not having solved this dispute.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u318	He's afraid of EDP!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u319	As I said in the committee, the Government believes that it must create a framework for these realities to be subject to IMI. The Government is available to work and is already working in that direction. This particular proposal, Mrs Deputies, according to the information I have requested, is not yet a proposal that solves this problem. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u320	On the IMI Code, Mr Bruno Nunes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u321	Mr. President, in your person I welcome all those present. Mrs. Members, on this issue of the IMI, the Arrival, before the State Budget, presented a bill aimed at suspending the IMI during the period of time of the PRR. But now I was listening to Mr Nelson Brito taking advantage of the question of 'the Portuguese who hear outside those who lie' and that 'there are politicians who lie' and then we will talk about politicians who lie. In fact, I will even take advantage of the proposals we have put forward at the State Budget on the IMI for firefighters. Yesterday, VV. Ex., which have a large part of the domain of the presidents of the humanitarian associations of volunteer firefighters, all the proposals that were most valuable to firefighters, including self-repairing. They've dropped everything! However, if I were in the position of the presidents of the affiliated associations in your party, militants of your party today would have three hypotheses: or I would resign from the PS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u322	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u323	...or I'd say I'm not in your position, or, if I were a volunteer fireman, I should hand over the helmet today and say I wouldn't defend you anymore. It's embarrassing! But now, in the afternoon, at the state budget, we are going to have a special vote. Now, because all the proposals of the Arrival get you through the throat, tell the Portuguese out there how they will lead to the exemption of the IMI to the firemen. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u324	Try how they're gonna do it! But you will have a lot of difficulty doing that, because the associations are in your hands. You know, this firefighter question could still go further, because in addition to the IMI issue, then they even give 1 € for the fire season. You know what? Do you know what you deserve the Portuguese out there to tell you when they were in emergency trouble? « Make lights to the air, call Batman and Spider Man, because firefighters have no means to help you! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u325	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have moved on to the pre-emptive intervention, of which we were planning. It belongs to Mrs Rita Matias of the Arrival, and the subject is the amendment to the Code of Municipal Tax on Onerous Transmissions of Property. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u326	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let me say that when I hear here, in this House, the young Members of the Socialist Party talk about their « country of wonders», I wonder about the country they are really talking about. It's certainly not my country or the country of the young people I know. This is a country where young people who end up in higher education can only hope to achieve precarious jobs; a country where young people have to choose between paying the rent or filling the car deposit at the end of the month; a country where young people cannot access the housing credits. And if you look at what is asked of a young person for the purchase of a house, you will find a list of requirements that are absolutely inadequate in relation to the suffocating reality that young people live: you ask a young person to have a good initial entry into a house, about 10 to 20 % of the value of the property; you ask him for a reduced rate of effort; you ask him for a stable professional situation and a good wage level; you ask him for a loan; you ask him for a good bank history. If this wasn't absolutely dramatic, it would even laugh! Portugal is the country in which the dreams of young people become utopias. We live in the country where three out of every four young people, I repeat, three out of every four young people earn less than €950 per month. With this value, how is it possible for a young Portuguese to acquire a house? And, as if the values practiced on the market were not enough, we can still count on all increased costs, such as the payment of records, the IMT (municipal tax on onerous property transmissions), the seal tax, the IMI, among others. Mrs. Members, the acquisition of a house is perhaps the biggest obstacle a young Portuguese faces today for its emancipation and the state's response has been little or no. Young people do not need surgical and outdated measures, young people do not want only income support, because young Portuguese people maintain the culture of owners, like their parents and like their grandparents, and it is time to give these young people a positive signal. Supporting young people in the acquisition of their homes is to provide conditions for new families to be born, to fulfill dreams and, above all, to reverse the dramatic breakdown of their birth. That is why the arrival presents concrete measures to change this paradigm, in particular the exemption of IMT for young people. It remains to be seen if the gentlemen. Members want to be on the right side of history or not. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u327	Mr Carlos Brás, of the Socialist Party, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u328	H.E. Mr. President, H.E. Mrs. Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs, H.E. Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, the Socialist Party has as one of its fundamental principles the promotion of fiscal justice as a way of also pursuing the public interest and the common good. In line with this basic principle, the electoral programme that the PS presented to the Portuguese for 2022 includes the aim of building a fairer tax system as a way to combat inequalities, because, for us, the tax system is an essential tool for redistribution and a vehicle to achieve this desire to combat inequalities. We also defend a more progressive tax system, which is better resistant to avoidance and which contributes to promoting more social justice and combating asymmetries. In order to achieve these objectives, it is important to approximate the tax treatment applicable to different types of income, to value the principle of contribution capacity and, alongside the fight against fraud, avoidance and tax evasion, to cover gaps that allow aggressive and abusive tax planning. This requires more international cooperation, especially within the framework of the European Union, and innovative responses to the deterritorialisation processes supported by technological developments. But better fiscal justice will also involve greater fiscal equity. The success of combating fraud, evasion and tax and tax evasion is undoubtedly an essential assumption and an adequate distribution of tax effort between families and businesses, a condition for such greater fiscal equity. These same principles and proposals are reflected in the Government's programme and, as a result, they have an expression in the budget that we are now discussing. The proposal for a State budget for 2022 provides for the compulsory inclusion of speculative income of securities securities held for less than one year, when taken by taxpayers with cashable income at the last IRS tax stopover. Considering also the importance of e-Fature as a source of information and support for numerous economic, social and fiscal decisions, it is expected to strengthen it, with a view to improving the reliability of the data collected. With regard to the IMT, this budget proposes that the entry of partners with real estate for the realization of ancillary benefits be subject to the taxation of IMT, in line with the tax treatment of income with real estate for the realization of the social capital of the companies, but also proposes an adjustment of the taxation of IMT of the partial figures of the right of ownership, contributing to the reduction of tax planning in situations where, rather than the immediate acquisition of the full ownership of the property, partial figures are acquired. It is also proposed to change the expiry of the IMT exemption in the first transmission after rehabilitation; - the criterion of income determination is amended for the exemption of IMI in housing buildings; - the effects of the second property assessment in the IMI are extended in order to mitigate distortions to market value; - in the determination of the most taxable value in IRS, it is proposed that the value be used as a basis for the liquidation of the seal tax if it applies, thus preventing the realization of exempt donations with the sole aim of revaluing the value of the acquisition in future value. But this budget proposal also introduces an anti-abuse standard, which prevents deduction of charges when the supplier has failed to fulfil the obligation to deliver the statement of initiation of activity and also excludes the financial entities from the subjective exemption from the seal tax. Despite the undeniable merit of these proposals, the PS board still had the ambition to improve the Government's proposal in this area and submitted a set of proposals which have been voted on in the specialty and which aim to extend the scope and incidence of anti-abuse standards and to close the possibilities of, through such abusive tax plans, erosion of taxable bases. There is no completely waterproof and leaky tax system, but this budget proposal contains important measures to avoid the risk of tax evasion which are due and which must be paid and made available to the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u329	The last recorded speaker is Mr Alexandre Poço, from the PSD, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u330	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the government, let's think about the life of a young man in our country. This young person must first overcome an economy that treats remuneration badly and offers low wages to each young person. Then this young man has to go beyond the fact that, in order to dream one day of having his own home, he has to save for many years. And we are naturally thinking of a young man who has no rich parents, has no inheritances and therefore has to make a significant financial effort to, with the low salary he takes, save to have a home one day. It will naturally find a real estate market context which, in urban centres, leaves many away from the possibility of first purchase of homes. Next you'll have to think about the entrance. Then you will have to be able to have a credit from a bank institution and pay all records, all commissions. After making this nearly Kafkian path, a difficult path that takes many young people away from this dream, and if they succeed in doing all this, they will then have to deliver thousands of euros to the state through the IMT. The proposal that the Social Democratic Party brings to this House aims to ensure that, at this fundamental stage, young people receive an exemption in the purchase of the first house. We are not asking for an exemption for multimillionaires, we are not asking for an exemption for people who can get incomes that they give to pay what they understand, it is for those who are at the start of their lives. That is why, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I believe that this proposal is intended to provide a differentiated treatment at a time when young people need it most, the stage in which they seek to acquire their first home. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u331	After all, there was another intervention, at the request of the State Secretary for Tax Affairs, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u332	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Alexandre Poço, regardless of what we might have on the matter of kindness, in terms of housing policy, of the measure you are proposing, I dare to make a suggestion to you: this is a tax whose revenue is municipal, the honourable Member has the opportunity to persuade all the presidents of the PSD to decide on this exemption, because he can do so in accordance with the Local Finance Act. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u333	I vote on it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u334	Let's move on to the I.D. now. Members who, as a result of confinement, assisted the plenary by remote means. The Secretary of the Bureau, Maria da Luz Rosinha, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u335	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you. Members Filipe Neto Brandão and Jorge Seguro Sanches, of the Socialist Party, and Mr Francisco Pimentel of the Social Democratic Party, attended the work by videoconferencing, because they were in prophylactic isolation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u336	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u337	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u338	Mr President, it is only to make known to the Bureau, although we know that it is possible to justify the absence, that the Members who were at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Internal Security, chaired by the Prime Minister, are in this session since noon and therefore wanted this to be recorded.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-05-25.u339	This means that you are working in parliament, Mr President, but thank you for the clarification. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will meet tomorrow in plenary session for 10 hours with the discussion of the rules which are being discussed today, in the Commission, the vote on these rules and the continuation of the debate on the budget. I thank everyone for the discipline and wish you a good afternoon. [[It was 13 hours and 50 minutes.]]
