ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, good afternoon to all. I wish you had a good vacation. We already have quorum, so we will start the meeting of the Standing Committee. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] The gentlemen. Authorities can open the galleries, please. on our agenda, in addition to point 1, the adoption of the Standing Committee Regulation, of point 2, political declarations, and of point 3, debate, marked by the CFP Parliamentary Group, on the increase in the cost of living and profit of economic groups and the worsening of inequalities, a fourth point which is the vote. Article 3 ( 1 ). the Standing Committee Regulation states that the Bureau is composed of the President of the Assembly of the Republic and two secretaries appointed by the Standing Committee of its members, on a proposal from each of the two parliamentary groups with greater representativeness. That indication has already been made, so we can actually start our meeting. First, though, if we start the agenda, I will give the floor to Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha, to account for the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u2	Mr. President and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, several legislative initiatives. First of all, I refer to Law Nos 22 / XV / 1. a ( ALRAA ), which falls to 13. the Commission, in connection with 10. the Commission, 23 / XV / 1. a ( ALRAM ), which falls to 7. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission, 24 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), which drops to 9. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission, 25 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), which falls to 6. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission, 26 / XV / 1. a ( ALRAA ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 27 / XV / 1. a ( ALRAA ), 28 and 29 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), which fall to 1. the Commission, and 30 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), which falls to 6. the Commission. Law No. 253 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 254 and 255 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), down to 1. the Commission, 256 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 10. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission, 257 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 7. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission, 258 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 259 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 7. the Commission, in connection with 11. a and 13. a Commissions, 260 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 261 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission, and 262 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission. I shall then refer to Parliamentary Assessments Nos 1 and 2 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), and 3 / XV / 1. a ( CH) as well as Parliamentary Inquiry No 2 / XV / 1. a ( CH).
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u3	I now give the floor to Secretary Duarte Pacheco to continue reading the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u4	They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted by Mr. President, Bills No. 228 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 8. The Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission, 229 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 234 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 7. the Commission, 235 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission, 237 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 238 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 12. the Commission, 239 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, in connection with 5. the Commission, 240 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) and 241 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), down to 1. the Commission, 242 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 243 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 244 / XV / 1. a ( BE) down to 7. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission, 245 and 246 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which fall to 10. the Commission, 247 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 248 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 10. the Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission, 249 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 250 and 251 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which fall to 12. the Commission, and 252 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 14. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u5	To resume reading the file, I give the floor to Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u6	Resolution Nos 177 / XV / 1 were also admitted by Mr President. a ( PAN ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 178 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 179 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 7. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission, 180 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 181 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 182 and 183 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which fall to 7. the Commission, 184 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 185 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 186 and 187 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which fall to 10. the Commission, 188 and 189 / XV / 1. a ( IL), which goes down to 8. the Commission, 190 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 191 / XV / 1. a ( CH), 192 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 193 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 194 / XV / 1. a ( PAR), 195 and 196 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which fall to 11. the Commission, 197 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission, 198 and 199 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), down to 13. the Commission, 200 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 201 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 202 and 203 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), down to 1. the Commission, 205 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 206 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 10. the Commission, in connection with 5. the Commission, 207 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 208 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) and 211 / XV / 1. a ( PAR). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, he also provided the information, coming from the Civil House of the President of the Republic, that the official visit of the President to Argentina, which was scheduled for 11 to 14 September, was postponed to date. I am further informed that, in accordance with the opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, the Member of the CFP Diana Ferreira ( the electoral circle of the Port ) suspends the mandate and is replaced by Alfredo Maia, with effect from 7 September, including for a period not less than 30 days and up to the limit of its justified reason, and that the Member of the PS João Pedro Matos Fernandes ( the electoral circle of the Port ) suspends the mandate and is replaced by Catarina Maria Moreira das Neves Lobo, with effect from 12 September, including. Madam President, we need to vote on these two opinions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u7	I would therefore ask the services which carry out the verification of the quorum. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have quorum, so we shall vote on the two opinions of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We are now voting on the Standing Committee regulation. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall turn to item 2 of our agenda, political statements, the first being the Parliamentary Group of the CFP. To that end, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is urgent to address the difficulties that are posed to the National Health Service ( SNS ), and this implies a break with the policies that have led to the current situation and that have created serious problems in the National Health Service that prevent thousands of Portuguese people from having access to the health care they need. This ruin obliges other political options, different from those followed by this and previous PS and PSD/CDS governments and also different from the options proposed by the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival. Another path is needed, which returns to the National Health Service its public, general, universal, free of charge and responsiveness. It is necessary to end the chronic underfinancing of the National Health Service, to put an end to the growing transfer of resources to private groups, to combat the degradation of working conditions, which leads to the exit of professionals and prevents their entry in sufficient numbers, to promote the autonomy of institutions, to solve the problems of coordination and organization of health services. But this is not the way that is being traced by the Government of the absolute majority of the PS, rather, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. This way, the Government of the absolute majority of PS is preparing the delivery of even more public health care and services to the private sector. By this way, the Government of the absolute majority of the PS continues to favour even more the private groups that do business at the expense of Portuguese disease. We need another health policy, a policy that defends and gives priority to public health services, which implies going against and breaking with the powerful interests of the economic groups of the disease. We need another policy that values the careers and wages of health professionals, that improves working conditions, that promotes exclusive dedication in the SNS, with a view to fixing and attracting doctors, nurses and all other necessary professionals. We need another policy that strengthens funding and investment in the SNS, which will reduce the dependence of the private sector and ensure the public resources needed to address the health needs of the population.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u10	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the lack of SNS response that creates room for our patients to be sent to the private. It is the deficiencies of the SNS that lead to the increasing removal of resources from the SNS and surrender to private individuals, preventing the development of the SNS and leading to further degradation of their ability to ensure health care to Portuguese. This government and all the others who had before it knew that, by devaluing careers, by disrespecting professionals, by disorganizing services, they were doing everything to push health professionals out of the SNS and make public services less attractive, especially for those who are being trained every year in our public schools.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u12	The question is this: how could private economic groups have managed to take so many SNS health professionals to their lucrative units if they did not live in a situation of devaluation of wages, disrespect for their rights, high workloads and, above all, without a real career progression and appreciation of their professional status? Yes, how could we today have nearly 1 million and a half users without a family doctor or to watch the rupture of emergency services in the most diverse specialties, not only in obstetrics and gynecology? Or how could we have the emergency services delivered to professionals hired to the task, through cheap employment companies, earning at the hour much more than the professionals in the hospital framework? The answer is simple, ladies and gentlemen. Members: on the one hand, the government has been passively assisted by the weakening of the SNS, allowing the deterioration of the working conditions of health professionals, and on the other hand the measures it took were to make the SNS even more dependent on the private sector, as demonstrated by the newly published SNS Statute, which constitutes a clear retreat in relation to the Health Bases Act, approved in 2019, exacerbating the promiscuity between the public and the private. The new SNS Statute includes private institutions, such as SNS units, with which the public service establishes contracts, it allows the transfer of public hospital services to external entities, maintains the clear intention of returning to the ruinous public-private partnerships in health. They can make the rounds they want, which they will not be able to disguise as the interests of private health groups that determine the strategy of reducing public service to a minimum of assistanceist, leaving the rest to favor the profit of the private sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u13	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u14	It is not that the Government does not know what it can and should do — if not, just take into account the proposals presented by the CFP in this House — it is even by choice that lets the public service slide towards degradation. The solutions that the Government is presenting are only isolated measures that do not address the structural and substantive problems. It is more a behavior of those who want to appear active and concerned, but, in fact, it makes the situation worse every day. It is the case of the apology that the SNS works in the network, thus concealing the indisputable lack of human resources in health, or of putting young interns to replace specialists, or of putting doctors without speciality to occupy the place of specialists in general and family medicine, or, as a PS government is preparing to do again, the closure of maternity, which is revealing from a total devaluation and neglect with the quality and access to health care. The solution goes, as the CFP advocates, by ending the chronic underfinancing of the SNS, by restoring democratic and participatory administrative bodies, by restoring stable careers with fair remuneration, by stimulating the option for exclusive public service dedication, by prohibiting private public services management and by reducing the use of entities outside the SNS. For the PCP, it is also clear that the longer the measures necessary to defend the SNS are taken, the more their response capacity is degraded and the more difficult the dependence of the private becomes the general access of the Portuguese to health care.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u15	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u16	I will finish, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the SNS there are neither clients nor profit targets to achieve, yes, users and populations who need to be cared for and cared for, whatever the disease, its severity or its cost. This is the National Health Service that we defend and want, free from the powerful interests installed to which the government refuses to oppose. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u17	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A few months ago, I said the Socialist Party's bench, or rather, said the government, which was presenting to this House the leftmost budget of all time, I repeat, the leftmost budget of all time. On the other hand, because of this most left-wing budget, which feared not to give answers to public services, incomes, the crisis that is present and feels daily, the PS’s theimosia wanted to take the country to elections. Today we realize how this Budget is a gross mistake for those who have left-wing thinking and for those who want some progress for the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u19	You were supporting!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u20	Let us look at a concrete scenario: the leftmost budget in health has already resigned from the Minister, a "Minister of Lampamp" in this government, which quickly entered into the shoulders of the Socialist Party and the Prime Minister as soon as he came out of thin, by no one recognized, because no one wanted to pay tribute to him. We have a National Health Service in agony, in chaos, because the Socialist Party believes that, after all, it is the policies on the right that will make it rehabilitate.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u21	Six years!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u22	Giving money to privates as never committed in the past does not save the National Health Service, it first brings problems, but these are the problems that the Socialist Party has created. Do not take care of the careers of the National Health Service, as I did the right, does not bring solutions, only problems, but are the problems that the Socialist Party has created. And why? Lack of power? And why? Lack of capacity? Don't! The most essential thing is missing: the will to take care of public services, and, above all, the guilt is all on the PS bench, it is all in the Government of the Socialist Party. But it is also lacking the will that the left-wing being be not only a pin on the lap of some socialist ruler. We have seen this in the past, when the right brought the flag of Portugal to the pins of the lapel, and every day it passed, it pressed the Portuguese people with its measures. Who in the past did not care for the Portuguese people cut pensions, cut wages, did not care for public services. And who, now, does not care for the Portuguese people prevents the law from being complied with and that pensions are increased, such as the rights acquired by pensioners so should be met, guarantees loss of purchasing power, guarantees impoverishment, does not care for the future of the country. That is the concrete reality of the country. The government started this week with a great night of propaganda, with live dozens of minutes on television to say that it was going to do what had never been seen: a direct check for families, a direct check for children, an investment in pensions, an increase as never seen. But the mask didn't last long. The theatre doesn't always last and the bad quality of a film always falls to reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u23	You've helped!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u24	From that point of view, the propaganda of the Socialist Party, so much like the propaganda we have already seen from the right, only reaches the right by politics. As far as pensions are concerned, it is up to us to prevent the law from valuing pensions, as the law says it must be done, we only remember that it was the right to have prevented these increases. It was the right, PSD and CDS, or the older brothers of the Liberal and Arrival Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u25	No, it wasn't! He's wrong.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u26	The measures that the right has taken in the past are exactly the same as the Socialist Party is now fulfilling.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u27	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u28	When we look at this check directly for citizens, for children, and we see that this value does not even reach the return of what the government is charging in excess of VAT (tax on value added) until July this year, we realize that there is a huge mistake. The government had already said that it expected to have more VAT revenues in 2022 than in 2021. Of course! He said he expected to have more than 11 %, because now the economy would have a normal, normal year, not a pandemic year. But the VAT revenue by July is 24 % higher than last year. It is more than EUR 1000 million above what the government expected it to receive. And does the government give this money back to the families? Don't! All measures added are less than the Government is, month after month, bringing in the blindest tax of all, which is VAT.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u29	Lower the taxes!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u30	So we realize that those who don't care for the country, those who don't care for people are because they don't have a project, they don't want to do it. There is, however, something that falls. In fact, we have even heard this great government lawyer, who is the President of the Republic, out of great regret that the PSD has to say that this is the fault of the Brussels rules, because we had our accounts controlled and, if we are out of control now, they are then hard to get under control again. But that's an excuse that doesn't take reality. As I said, the government had a tax revenue of 11 % above 2021 and did not even return to the people what it received in excess until July. This is a government that doesn't want the right accounts, it's a government that wants the right takeover of people and now throws handcuffs, as if it were giving some kind of bait to the country. It is shameful for the Government to say more to the left in Europe not to tax the abuses of those who gain poverty, not to guarantee support for the economy and families, as we see in other countries even more to the right, not to take care of public services more than just to beat their chests and say that they love them. Now, with the love of these, as we already realize, there are some hates that seem to be estimated. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u31	For a political statement, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias has the floor, representing the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government — who are not yet present — Members: over the past few months, with the end of a political crisis that the Portuguese have resolved giving an absolute majority to the PS, the government has had to combat inflation and increase the cost of living of the Portuguese people their priority. This has been the case since April, in this same Hemicycle, from July to September, in the preparation of the support programme for Portuguese families. over the year, even with the limitations of those who had only one budget in force at the end of June, the government has already mobilised EUR 4 billion to mitigate the effects of inflation on the lives of families and businesses, with the dual objective of controlling price developments, while at the same time supporting Portuguese income. Do so by keeping the debt targets and deficits, in a downward course, respecting the electoral commitments and a transparent and reliable relationship, always being next to the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Portuguese have trusted the PS because they know that, in governance, whatever happens, the PS is always on their side, seeking, side by side, to overcome all difficulties, without questioning the commitment of sustainability of public policies, always with transparency, even when, during the pandemic, difficult decisions have to be made. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But it is inevitable: the uncertainty, the war and the pandemic, as regards the year 2023, should lead the State, families and businesses to seek, in security, sustainable investment levels and a fiscal policy that will have to be flexible in order to accommodate a macroeconomic framework with high levels of volatility. This uncertainty must be borne in mind when the inflation responses are formulated and when medium- and long-term measures are planned. It is necessary to respond to the situation without stopping to think in the long term. That is the challenge that we face, and this is what is at the heart of the options of the government and the PS. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if, over the past few days, it has been clear that only the PS Government has a comprehensive support programme that transfers the budgetary margin — all the budget margin — to the most vulnerable and the middle class, fulfilling with workers and pensioners, within the sustainability of public policies and public accounts, it is also clear that it will not hesitate to transform the discussion, in this difficult scenario, into a test for the return of old policies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Without misgivings, the Government presented a programme with more benefits to support income, with less energy taxation, to reduce the expenditure of families and businesses, controlling prices in transport and housing, with a commitment to the future and transparency of those who support and took the exercise, particularly with pensioners, until December 2023. Today, each pensioner knows how much the increase in his pension will be, just as he already knows what the additional benefit he will receive in October. [[P.S.'s applause.]] A pensioner with a pension of 500 € will have, in October, more 250 € and, along 2023, more 310 €. A pensioner who receives 750 € will have a benefit of more than €375 and will accumulate increases, until December, more than €465. A pensioner who receives 1000 € will have over 500 € in October and over 570 € in the next year.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u33	And those who get 200 bucks? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u34	Between 2022 and 2023 we will always have the same word: more — more pensions, more income, more benefits. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This increase in pensions has been the greatest since accession to the euro. In 2024, pensions will continue to progress according to price developments and price analysis of 2023, and in January 2024, contrary to what happened on other occasions, no pensioner will receive less than 1 cent of what he received in December 2023. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, to the right — to our right! — is austerity in version 2.0. The protagonists of the cuts in pensions, cuts in wages and the huge increase in taxes return with the same formulas.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u35	It's bankruptcy 2.0!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u36	Now, let's see : they scream at the four winds, shout the leader of the PPD / PSD that the government has more 4000, 5000, 6000, 7000 million euros of revenue and then, at a decisive moment, presents a program of 1000 million,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... 25 % of the value that says we would have, on the limit, from the maximum revenue. It is appropriate to ask: is the return of the old PPD/PSD of austerity in the version "give less, give a smaller package", of course to continue with its priorities? [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is the austerity 2.0 of the PPD / PSD : 1000 million, corrected not 20 days later, with another measure to trailer the first pages of the newspapers. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Portuguese have trusted the PS because they know that we are not at the right hand side of the courts—there are increases in pensions, there are increases in income, but there are no cuts — nor are we the left that the right one likes — the left that likes to be opposition, that likes to scream on the street, but never assumes the responsibilities in the most difficult times of governance. It's from that left that the right one likes. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH and BE Member Protests Pedro Filipe Soares.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u37	For a political statement, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is regrettable that the Socialist Party has prevented a debate today with the presence of the Minister of Health. We live one of the worst moments of the National Health Service and the government is hiding behind an absolute majority, not to respond to the country. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] A Minister who resigns, but who is in office for another 15 days, with the express intention of imposing structural changes in the National Health Service, has an obligation to come to this Parliament. The government wants to approve the SNS Statute on the people's back, behind a smoking curtain. They want to deceive us with propaganda acts, saying that now yes - seven years later! - They will begin to fulfill the promises they have never fulfilled before. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u39	The Socialist Government has abandoned the Portuguese at a time when they need it most, as was clear from the programme of supposed support for families, which has been hit by one of the biggest economic crises in recent decades. Not only did the government appear late — much later than so many other European governments — and in practice it was unable to provide an effective response to the difficulties facing Portuguese families. The government has abandoned the older ones, abandoned pensioners and retired.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u40	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u41	The government has abandoned those who have given so much to this country and so much need support and these are the Portuguese who suffer most in the face of the failures of the National Health Service. throughout these seven years of governance, under the leadership of the Prime Minister, António Costa, Portuguese have witnessed a progressive degradation of the care provided by the SNS. When the SNS fails, everyone feels, but above all, those who live in a situation of greater vulnerability: children, women and older ones. See the case of the promise made in 2016 by Prime Minister Antonio Costa that all Portuguese would have a family doctor in 2017. Today, in 2022, there are nearly 1 million and a half of Portuguese without a family doctor assigned, more than 40% than when the PS came to power. The pandemic is often invoked to justify the inefficiencies of the SNS, but data from excessive mortality show, as patients with non-COVID diseases such as cancers, infarctions and other chronic diseases were left behind when compared with the average of European countries and OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ). They are sick abandoned by a government that promises everything, but little does. See the case of waiting lists for medical joints in which patients — many of them with cancer — continue without access to the social benefits they are entitled to. We have already lost track of the number of promises made by the Minister of Health and his State Secretaries, who have promised to solve this problem. There is no other way of saying: the government lied to all Portuguese people who cannot have access to a medical board. [[PSD applause.]] Moreover, the government promised a series of new hospitals and, seven years later, none opened doors. The only equipment that is being built is being made with the money of the municipalities of Sintra. But see how amazing it is: Sintra's future hospital won't have a single hospital bed, all beds will be for continued care. We all remember when the Prime Minister, António Costa, presented that cow with wings to the country. Well, a hospital with no hospital beds is like a cow with no wings, just don't fly. And it's all for socialist propaganda. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u42	Is that really what I meant? Oh, my God! [[PS, PCP and L rice.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u43	In fact, the government has a serious problem with the truth: the lack of transparency in cases of maternal mortality, infant mortality and excessive mortality prevent the identification of the origin of failures in the SNS and, consequently, that can be corrected. This is not to mention the absolute lack of planning and organization of emergency services in the country. It was necessary to reach a point of rupture and chaos in the emergency of obstetrics to recognize that there is, after all, a structural problem. There was an entire summer with thousands of pregnant women forced to travel hundreds of miles to find a birth block operating at the SNS. In the end, the Minister was resigned, but the structural problems remained unsolved. With all this, it is natural that you begin to lack confidence in the response capacity of the SNS and therefore who can look for alternatives in the private sector. Never, as in these years of PS governance, so many Portuguese paid for health insurance. Who can pay, but who does not have the means for such months, if not even years, on endless waiting lists. But health professionals also lost confidence, having to endure the difficulties blindly, in the face of a evident lack of government vision for health and the demonstrated inability to reform the SNS. Therefore, instead of attracting doctors and nurses back to the National Health Service, these escapes, and often run away from the country, leaving the public health service increasingly less and less able to respond to the growing demand for patients. In the face of all this, the government thinks it's okay. Changing the Minister without changing government health policies is like treating an exposed wound with a quick thought — nothing solves. The Prime Minister should have the humility to acknowledge that the government has failed in health and that it needs to change its course. At a time when the country needs courage, we have a cowardly government. at a time when the country needs vision, we have a government without direction. at a time when the country needs reforms, we have an accommodated government. At a time when the country needs solidarity, we have a government that abandons those who have the least and most accurate. The Prime Minister says that only by overthrowing the government can there be change in policies. on this point, we recognise that you are right. from the PSD, we will do everything to free the Portuguese from this socialist government that has abandoned them. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u44	For a political declaration, Mr. Diogo Pacheco de Amorim has the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the United States of America.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u45	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The background of this parliamentary year which now begins is far from brilliant. The resignation of Minister Marta Temido, whom we had asked, in a motion of censure that none of these benches supported, came a month later, to demonstrate the reason we had about the chaos installed in health, a scarce resource buffer, dissipated by a very bad management, guided by an ideology and not by the harsh reality of the facts. A significant part of the country burned down, and this has largely happened because of the government's insecurity and the worst management of the existing means of combating forest fires. They tell us — that is a terrible thing! — that, as a matter of fact, everything will be better. But if we look at the state in which what was one day the Pinhal of Leiria, we have a preview of this better: killing, infesting species and weeds everywhere. in five years, that'll be the scene of Star Serra. The chaos in health and in the fight against fires is well the portrait of the disorientation that took account of a government that results from an absolute majority of the Socialist Party, conquered — no one would say so! — only half a dozen months ago. This disorientation promises black times for Portugal and the Portuguese. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot let Mr Prime Minister's apology be made clear on his recent visit to Mozambique. It's a request that shames us as Portuguese. An apology, yes, owes the Portuguese state to the hundreds of thousands of refugees who had to leave the territory of Mozambique, only with what they had on top of the body. [[Congrats from the CH.]] This is because many people have left not only the goods, but also life, murdered. These, yes, are those who deserve a very humble apology from the Prime Minister of Portugal. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u46	Finally, I must say that we will not give up the motion of censure to the President of the Assembly of the Republic. Of course, it is not a question of institutional respect for His Excellency the President of the Council of the Republic, of what the Rules of Procedure require us and which we accept without any reservations. The respect we owe Mr Augusto Santos Silva is not at stake, as should all our peers in this House. Respect for Augusto Santos Silva is not yet at stake because of its political course which, being radically different from ours, does not deserve us, therefore, less appreciation and less democratic respect.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u48	What is at stake here, yes, is the greatest and irreplaceable good of any democracy: freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u49	All right! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u50	The freedom to say clearly and unequivocally what we believe is indispensable is at stake. It is, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is, yes — and that is indisputable — a common ground of democracy and this common ground is precisely freedom of expression. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u51	They don't like to hear, but they have to hold on.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u52	It is that of freedom of expression, yes, of freedom of expression and of speech and, for the most part, this must be the common ground of this House. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u53	Therefore, we will never give up our right, which is also our duty, to challenge what we have to answer, to propose what we have to propose and to fight for what we have to fight for. That is because of the respect we owe to ourselves, to this House and to the 400 000 Portuguese who voted in us and to whom we are representing here. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It is 400 000 Portuguese who would never forgive us that, here, we would lower our arms. It's for them and them that we're here. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u54	For a political declaration, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva, of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u55	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are returning to the parliamentary year in which the government, which has been in office for less than six months, has already given unequivocal signs of exhaustion and decay, which has been demonstrated, more than ever, only in August. It was a month in which all that was to go wrong went even worse, not because of the Portuguese, as some socialists insinuated and insinuated, but because of the government. It is a government that makes the lie of the way of life and transforms incompetence in its brand image, in combating the economic crisis, in managing public services, in protecting the most disadvantaged, in permanently breaking their own promises and their commitments. In August, we went from crisis to crisis: with a chaotic scenario installed in the National Health Service, where hundreds of thousands of consultations and surgeries continued to be postponed or cancelled and in which normality is already assumed to be closed; with the duplication of the number of fires, many caused by criminal hands, as the Minister of Internal Administration himself acknowledged, in a shocking statement of impotence; with resignations already announced and others probably about to happen in the government itself — the Council of Ministers today is transformed into a focus of instability. This is the PS: they promise a lot, but they do nothing, because they have a vocation to break the electoral commitments and because they make the mistake of believing in their own propaganda, which is a liar. But here's the PS: always lead in the cotton test called reality. They promised returns of income to the Portuguese. And what happened? A sharp fall in purchasing power. The Portuguese have already seen more than 5% of their income and savings falling this year and pensioners will see their income cut after 2023. They promised more public investment. And what happened? Captivations, a socialist euphemism for illusionism, which prevents the budgetary execution they had promised—only in health investment fell 33 %. They promised to revitalize the National Health Service, with the best public offer, exempting the collaboration of the private and social sector. And what happened? The chaos in the emergencies, worn-out professionals. Portuguese families have never spent so much on drugs, consultations, examinations, analyses and surgeries. Those who boast of having founded the SNS are even those who will sink it. They promised more and better education. And what happened? A busy process of decentralization, learning recovery failures and increasingly lack of teachers, in addition to the prospect of a new school year with about 100,000 students without full hours due to lack of teachers. And, as if they were not satisfied, they still added the lie of free daycare, which obviously will not be for everyone. They promised to disengage the Public Administration. And what happened? Besides appointments in social security, which were already known, a minister, such as that of Agriculture and Food, who dares to criticize a social partner for not recommending the PS vote in the elections in January. They promised to fight customerism. And what happened? Cases such as that of the hiring of Sérgio Figueiredo as consultant of the Ministry of Finance, by direct adjustment, or the appointment of the director of the IEFP (Instituto do Employo e Formation Professional) who had received unduly unemployment benefit. They promised environmental sensitivity and the greatest reform in the forest since D. Dinis. And what happened? The largest ever fire in Serra da Estrela Natural Park and Portugal, with the highest percentage of forest and agricultural area destroyed by the flames this summer in Europe. Even the Pinhal of Leiria, burnt five years ago, owned by the State itself, is abandoned. They promised to fight the drought, avoiding all waste of water. And what happened? Lack of investment in water structures. A substantial part of the water losses occurs in the conducts without repairs before reaching the tournaments — incompetence! — and there is still a total lack of strategy for recreation. They promised to give priority to housing policies. And what happened? They insist on solutions that are contrary to reality. It increases the number of people living in homes with lack of space and the overcrowding of housing already exceeds 10 %, affecting more than 1 million Portuguese. They promised quality of life. And what happened? Today we have four times more excessive deaths than the European average. Portugal leads this dramatic statistics in the Community framework and is the second worst maternal mortality ratio of this century. They promised political stability, provided by the absolute majority. And what happened? In this six-month series of policies, with the Prime Minister disallowing the Minister of Infrastructure and Housing by order, in a genuine public invitation to his resignation, and the Minister of Health, a year ago presented as a star at the PS Congress, to knock on the door, and now forced to remain in the government against his express will. Between incompetence, prepotence and lies, the absolute majority now presents itself as a dissolved majority. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, all this has become possible only because two very negative factors are conjugated in this government: incompetence and lies. They lie to disguise incompetence and are incompetence until they lie, because they are easily caught missing the truth, as seen this week. This was an example of the Prime Minister's guarantee that he could not have lowered the energy VAT for the minimum rate for lack of authorisation in Brussels for months. Nothing more false, as we all know today.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u56	That's absolutely false! That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u57	As false as when they said that the hiring of Sérgio Figueiredo as a special consultant for the Ministry of Finance, by direct adjustment, was indispensable. A process justified only by the feeling of impunity provided by this absolute majority. As false as when they announced the hiring of more than 500 firefighters to fight fires, which, after all, came to know, were volunteers who would join professional teams. As false as they promised that all Portuguese would have a family doctor. Not only have they not fulfilled how today reality is even worse: four years ago, they were 700 000 Portuguese without a family doctor, today they are twice, 1 million and 400 thousand. As false as they promised to equip all computer schools and, two years later, schools and students are still waiting. In the last seven years, since António Costa began his duties as Prime Minister, more than half a million Portuguese chose to emigrate, most of them young with abilities above average and many of them will never return. This government, unfortunately, has nothing to offer them. It was another betrayed promise. The Prime Minister had guaranteed that he would retain the greatest talents in the country and stop the migratory flow of the most prepared generation ever.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u58	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u59	I shall conclude, Madam President. In this too, the government has been incompetent. Madam President, PS is incompetent. Whether to present anti-inflation packages, either to present State budgets, either in the management of the short, medium and long-term, when the Portuguese need, the PS fails. And it fails because it's incompetent, because it's overpowering. I conclude with what the Portuguese already know: the PS fails because it is incompetent, because it is overpowering and because it is lying. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u60	It's liberal enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u61	No, no! Enough is enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u62	For a political declaration, Mrs Inês Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u63	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In today's political statements we cannot ignore that Portuguese have been waiting for months for answers that have been delayed. To an extreme drought, for which the Government has been alerted, to COVID-19 and its effects, to a confinement that has left serious problems of mental health, isolation, loss of pay, delays in knowledge at the educational and school level, there is now an unprecedented war, which has led to an escalation of inflation already with historical levels. Food prices in the food cassava have been shot and have already increased by almost 16 %. The electricity bill has increased 35 % and we even have analysts telling us that in 2023 it could be 500 €/ month. In a country that is more and more minimum wages, where the right to pay continues to be a privilege for many young people who barge in precariousness, where pensioners receive migalhas and the risk of poverty is enormous and in which we have fully impoverished and exhausted public services, which are not valued—as is the case of the National Health Service, an essential service in a state of social law—is incomprehensible this trait of reality with which we are confronted. This escalation of prices and social suffocation to which we are watching represent a real social emergency situation. And in a situation of social emergency, even more in a situation where the tax revenue of the State has increased the peak, which is required are robust measures and do not think fast or skills like those we have been watching in recent days. In fact, with this package of measures, the government does not bring us a structural change to resolve the long-standing failure of the social elevator or, less so, to solve serious problems that continue to persist in the country. What we have had was a small package with some remedies that, despite having important measures, such as direct support for families and an environmentally sustainable reduction of VAT, could have gone far beyond it. To be understood, this financial support package costs EUR 2, EUR 4 billion to the State, however, the extraordinary tax revenue caused by inflation is already EUR 6700 million, cashed in the state's coffers. There are EUR 4300 million that are extraordinary profits from the state and that they could and should be returned to families, but that they will inexplicably be closed in the state safes. In other words, the government took off very much with one hand and little comes with the other. Through this little package it returns very little of this very much that it paid more to families and businesses. This is therefore a zero-to-zero housing package of family needs, a mere quick thought that the PS, by closing itself in its absolute majority, still goes on time — wanting! — to be improved in the Assembly of the Republic. It is these improvements that we want to talk about, because the NAP wants answers and solutions. The NAP wants a green, realistic, socially fair response that does not jeopardise the balance of public accounts. In order for us to have an answer that does not jeopardise social and environmental commitments, we must first of all give incentives for families to let go of individual transport. We must not forget that we are also experiencing an unprecedented energy crisis and we must reduce the dependence on fossil fuels. In Spain, the free movement of transport passes was ensured. In Germany, a monthly €9 pass was created for the whole country and in Finland tax incentives were created for the acquisition of the passes. What does the government's package give us? A freeze on the price of passes, something that had already happened in 2020 and 2021, that is, a handful of nothing. For this reason, so that this is not just a small package, the NAP proposes the free passage for all children, young students, elderly and low-income families; a 25% reduction in the price of the passes; the adoption of a national plan of sustainable mobility for the Public Administration, Administration is forgotten in the measures and words of the Government; and the creation of tax incentives for companies to pay the passes to their employees. A realistic and socially just response goes far beyond reducing electricity VAT and giving people € 125 in October when some analysts already warn us that the escalation of inflation will have much more significant impacts in 2023. We have, for example, the galloping increase in the price of the food cabbage. It is necessary to respond with VAT to 0 % in essential foods such as fruit, bread and vegetables, something which the VAT directive itself has allowed since April this year. More: in view of the insufficiency of the salary to meet the costs of inflation, it is necessary to respond with an ambitious review of the steps of the IRS (tax on income of natural persons), which the Government continues to ignore. to increase the price of energy we must respond with the expansion of social energy and gas tariffs so that all people living below the poverty line and all pensioners can reach. This would make a difference in the lives of 400 000 families who, despite living in poverty, cannot access the social rate of electricity. At the speculation of petrol stations, the answer should be the fixing of the maximum marketing margins, which the Government had promised would be in force since 1 June and which unfortunately did not leave the drawer. Therefore, we continue to extend the hand to those who are more polluting, to those who earn the most, and to close the hand to families and to small and medium-sized enterprises. But see also what is reserved for higher education students. It would be necessary to respond with an extraordinary increase in the stock exchanges that could help to cope with the extraordinary costs of inflation taxes. In fact, in a country where young people have so much difficulty, it is incomprehensible that there are no such measures. More: In a country where we still have barracks, people and children living in places such as the neighborhood of the Second Tower in Almada, the Quinta do Ferro, even here, or in precarious housing in Odemira, the right to housing is not guaranteed with the mere freezing of income values or with the support of tenants. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this little package can't leave anyone behind, but the truth is it does. It completely ignores what, according to some European studies, has been pointed out to us, and what has to do with pets. Today it costs more than 30 % than a year ago having a pet, thus increasing the massive risk of abandonment of animals and maltreatment for families with pets. And what does the government do? Keeps animal protection orders in the drawer. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, as I said, this situation is of social emergency and money exists. We need to know where to look for it, ending the exemptions on petroleum products or charging the extraordinary profits in an additional way...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u64	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u65	... within IRC (the income tax of the public) so that this support can be channelled to support families and businesses, including through the reduction of IRC and energy transition, so important in a country where 2 million people live in energy poverty. The NAP therefore calls on the Socialist Party not to close in the absolute majority, so that, in the debate that we will have next week, we can make progress to reach the real needs of the population.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u66	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u67	Madam President, Dear colleagues : When, in politics, something is said to be unpredictable, it is not generally because it is believed that this was even unpredictable or inconceivable. It means, more prosaically, saying that it was not possible to predict. So when the government told us that war was unpredictable, it just meant that it had not been able to predict it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u68	No one's anticipated!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u69	There's nothing wrong with that. We can't all predict what's coming. By the way, no one can predict everything. The problem is when what was said to be unpredictable happens and we do not want to review our assumptions about how we should react to events. The problem is that the government has not been able to predict war. It is in, after the war, to have told us that inflation was temporary when it was already predictable and even likely that inflation would last as long as the war lasted, and we do not know how long the war will take. The problem is not to say that inflation is conjuncural. The problem is that this situation is eternal as long as it lasts and there have already been people suffering more than it should have suffered because it has not been supported in time, and there are people who will suffer more than it should suffer because it is not being sufficiently supported now. The package of measures announced this week comes too late and is too little. However, it brings with it the beginning of a government recognition that it was conceptually wrong when it said putting money in people's pockets was helping inflation and not helping people. If it had not been conceptually wrong, then I would not now be doing what is, in practice, a sort of amending budget. Therefore, since there is the beginning of this recognition, Dear colleagues of the PS, why not recognize once for all that it is necessary to reverse the direction of things? That, instead of using the margin that was stored there to "make a nice" in the deficit, this is the time to fight this inflation, not like the inflation of the 1970s, to which Mr. Prime Minister always refers and which has nothing to do with the current episode, but as an inflation of the time of war, in a time of war in Europe? Combating this inflation as it was fought during the war means support for supply and production; investment in cheap or even free universal public services; innovation in public policies, in particular energy; and having the ability to intervene legally in price formation—how, in fact, they did, in times, Churchill and Roosevelt — by setting prices. And, dear colleagues of the liberal bench, it wasn't even to impose socialism, it was even to save capitalism. Let us summarize: support for production and supply in our country, at present, means homes and food. Portugal has a problem of housing shortage, Portugal has a problem of food supply. It is necessary to support a 10-year national housing plan for 100 000 fires, to support food security and the transition of eucalyptus land to food fields. Investment in public services means, for example, cheaper or more free public transport, it means — and the Free will propose it here — a national rail pass. Germany made it to 9 € per month. We can do it, and that means not only weighing less in the family pocket, but helping the independence of fossil fuels and individual automobiles. As for innovation in energy policies, I have already spoken about this, but I will insist. Who's looking at things wrong?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u70	The Book!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u71	Are the Norwegians and the Dutch, who are taking steps in the creation of a public green hydrogen company? Are they the donkeys? Or are we being very intelligent because we are not creating a « hydrogenius verde Portugal », a public company?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u72	The only smart one here is Rui!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u73	I believe that the obvious answer is that who has the history of Norway and the Netherlands in energy creation and value creation in energy, probably knows anything that we should start implementing on the ground if we really want to position ourselves in the green hydrogen revolution. As far as legal intervention in price formation is concerned, I remember very well that a few months ago the government did not have the courage to say that the time was coming when prices would have to be fixed. Now we see that Berlin, Paris and Brussels are moving forward with proposals for pricing. It is possible to do so today, as it has always been necessary in times of war, and it is possible to do so, including through permanent assessments and algorithms. That is the courage we need to have, as it takes courage to say anything to those who have a loan to the bank and waits for tomorrow's meeting of the European Central Bank to see what it will pay, knowing that it is in Frankfurt that you will decide what it will pay every month without having a word from Lisbon so far to say where they will look for the resources — the overruns of the companies, by taxing these excessive and unjustified profits during the war period, to real estate transactions, to other financial transactions — to support who owes to the bank. We still need to move forward in the administrative and state machinery that we need not only for the next year, but for the next few decades. When Mr. Minister of Finance tells us of the administrative difficulty of implementing a direct financial transfer to people's pockets, then it is worth asking: if we had done the unconditional basic income pilot project that we proposed precisely to realize the small scale how this is done, would it not be easier today? Therefore, dear colleagues, dear members of the government who have arrived in the meantime: when we say that something is unpredictable, perhaps it is worth trying to hear who, at the time, planned and seek to hear what proposals come from that side, because these are those that need courage, it is true, but the sooner we take them, the stronger the country will be in the turn of this crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u74	Today you're tired of talking, 6 minutes and a half!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u75	We have reached the end of point 2 of our agenda. I take this opportunity to congratulate the honourable Members. Members of the Government, who are already present, and we will start point 3, scheduled by the CFP Parliamentary Group, on the increase in the cost of living and profits of economic groups and the worsening of inequalities. To open the debate, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The prices of essential goods do not stop increasing, wages and pensions are getting shorter, but the profits of the economic groups, these, grow extraordinarily. The response to increased cost of living, increased inequality and social injustice and to the deterioration of the economic situation imposes measures such as those already presented by the CFP to increase wages, pensions and social benefits, control and pricing of essential goods and services, taxing the profits of economic groups, guaranteeing social rights in housing, health, education and support for national production. Instead, the Government presents a set of measures that do not stop inflation, do not reintroduce purchasing power, do not require any contribution to the economic groups that are profiting from inflation, do not fight injustice and social inequalities. In the case of pensions, the Government's proposals are even a fraud to pensioners, which will eventually have the effect of a permanent court of pensions. Workers and pensioners, families, have more and more difficulties. But if living conditions have worsened for the majority, for the economic groups price increases have meant gross increases in profits, at the expense of the loss of purchasing power of workers and pensioners, at the expense of families, at the expense of the impoverishment of the people. In the first half of 2022, the 13 economic groups accumulated more than EUR 2300 million of profits. War and sanctions, and before the epidemic, have been the pretext used by the economic groups to increase the prices of fuels, energy, in particular electricity and gas, food goods, for speculative values. The reality proves that the bill of war and sanctions is being borne by the people. Inflation has reached historical levels and has already meant a cut of €50 per month to a worker who receives the national minimum wage, who in one year has a cut of almost one salary, but to whom the government is giving with a benefit of € 125, as if this solves the problem. Don't solve it! What solves is the general increase in wages of all workers, which enables the recovery of purchasing power, including the intermediate increase of the national minimum wage to 800 € already in September and the prospect of its fixing by 850 € in January 2023. It is also urgent to increase the pensions and reforms of all pensioners and regain the lost purchasing power by compensating by 2022 the almost 7% of inflation already registered and applying the entire increase that the law determines in 2023.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u77	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u78	This is what the Government must do, instead of insisting on the loss of purchasing power in 2022 and reducing the expected value for pensions and reforms in 2023, in accordance with existing legislation. In addition to not regaining the purchasing power already lost, this government measure is a fraud in order to prevent the increase in pensions and reforms, harming reformers. The government, which has been propagating the historical increase for months, in fact and after all, is to condition and hinder the recovery of pensions and reforms. It is urgent to increase the amount of social benefits and extend their scope. It is urgent to control and set prices for essential goods, because this is how inflation is combated. This should be done in conjunction with the reduction of electricity and gas VAT to 6 %, and not only in electricity up to a given consumption, but also in addition to the definitive recognition of the rates regulated in electricity and of the same conditions in gas. It is urgent to stop the increase in incomes, to define a maximum ceiling equivalent to the increase of 2022, i.e. 0, 3 %, to freeze the increase in incomes under the Supported Income, to set a maximum spread to be practised by the General Deposit Box, as an instrument to contain the increase in the charges borne by families with the housing credit, and to protect the family home by suspending the execution of mortgages and evictions. It is in this sense that the Government must move forward, instead of stimulating income increases of 2 %, with benefits to the owners who did so.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u79	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As has been shown, what the Government proposes does not correspond to the necessary response to the problems of workers, the people and the country. The government's options do not go that way because the PS refuses to face the interests and power of the economic groups and prefers to sacrifice the living conditions of those who work or live from their reform. It is the subordination of the Government to the interests of the economic groups that determines the options of the measures presented rather than the needs of workers, pensioners, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises ( MPMEs ), young people and other layers that are experiencing the difficulties resulting from increased cost of living. The government is responsible for cuts in wages and pensions, for the worsening of injustices and inequalities. Inflation is not inevitable, nor injustice and inequality are the work of chance, rather result from the options of right-wing policy, of the Government's options and of the systematic refusal to do what is necessary. With the marking of this debate on the increase in prices and profits of economic groups and the worsening of injustices and inequalities, we want to confront the Government with the necessary measures and its lack of response to combat the increase in cost of living. There are solutions. The PCP presented them and this is the time to fight for them. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u81	On behalf of the Government, to open this debate too, I have the floor of Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, the Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs, whom I warmly welcome.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u82	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that none of us, either in this House or in the country, ignores that in Portugal and Europe we are faced with the greatest increase in inflation in the last 30 years. An absolutely extraordinary context that has an impact on the increase in the cost of living of Portuguese people, where the Government has, in time, acted to protect families, protect businesses and thereby mitigate the effects of inflation and limit its spread. The government now goes back to choosing the path of income reinforcement and not cuts, as happened in the past, which always penalise the most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u83	All right! [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u84	Once again we are here to respond, with solidarity, to the most difficult times we all face. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There were times when, with the PSD in the government, the first word was « cut » ; now the first word is « increase ». And this is not done by chance, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is because we choose a path in 2015, because we choose, in 2015, to be next to the Portuguese in a set of measures whose importance becomes even more visible today. It is more visible when we return income, with the elimination of the overtax of IRS, with the consecutive increase in pensions, with free school textbooks, with the decrease in social pass prices, with free daycare. It is more visible when we watch unemployment today at minimum levels and the employed population reaching historic peaks, when we had an unprecedented pandemic and we were able to respond with a strong social state. All these measures have moved forward at the same time as ensuring the sustainability of public accounts, reducing poverty and social inequalities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members: What would be the state of the country today if we had continued the path of cuts and the attack on pensions and wages? Now, with this completely extraordinary, anomalous and atypical inflation, which penalizes the Portuguese standard of living so much, we are once again able to respond. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, exceptional moments require exceptional answers, exceptional answers because we have not agreed on the problems today. This year we have already incorporated inflation measures worth EUR 1800 million, i.e. we are not starting now, we have already strengthened support for the most vulnerable, we have supported the Portuguese with a significant reduction in fuel tax. We now have a more concrete idea of the evolution of public accounts and are therefore in a position to move forward with measures that the country can bear. We are determined not to take greater steps than the leg and these measures are for families. The measures presented to the country this week therefore respond to the increase in the cost of living by Mrs Paula Santos. We are supporting everyone who has income up to 2700 € gross per month.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u85	All right! [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u86	It's about 6 million Portuguese. We are paying more half a pension to all pensioners with pensions up to 5300 € ;...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u87	What about 2024? Stay in half!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u88	... we are supporting all children and young people, all dependents, for the purposes of IRS and social security, are supported; we are protecting the renters, limiting the increase in income and compensating the landlords in the same proportion; we are supporting all when we descend the electricity VAT from 13 % to 6 %; we are supporting families when we allow them to move to the regulated gas market and thereby save on the monthly bill. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u89	What about the fuels?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u90	We are all supporting when we do not raise the price of passes or travel at CP ( Portugal Trains ).
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u91	There are no trains either!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u92	E, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the opposition, unable to attack the greatest increase in pensions in the last 20 years, seeks to do a guessing exercise on what will happen in 2024, as announced by the coming of the Devil with this course of economic policy. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are in 2022 and the measures presented are in 2022 and in 2023.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u93	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u94	As for tricks, there's one I don't forget, and the gentlemen. Members of the bench on the right must not forget: one day the Portuguese pensioners received 14 months' pension and the next morning, without any notice, received less than two months' pension. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u95	That has nothing to do with us!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u96	Here, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there are no tricks, there is indeed a very early announcement of what will be the value of the increases in 2023. And one thing I want to say in this House, so that there is no doubt left: trick is really taking without warning, and that we already live and we don't like it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u97	But that's what they did again!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u98	The call was when, in 2015, he was prepared to send a cut of 600 million euros in pensions to Brussels.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u99	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u100	What I have said is true: pensioners will receive in 2023 the largest increase in pensions in the last 20 years. The rights of pensioners are being respected, without ever jeopardising the stability of social security and its sustainability and without ever mortgageting future pensions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u101	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u102	Here too, the answer is intergenerational solidarity, respecting the principle of trust that a decent State should always have with its citizens. The opposition prefers to speak of 2024. For they will have to wait by the end of 2023 to see what the government will propose at that time, what the government will approve and who will approve.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u103	What about the predictions?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u104	It may be that, when they arrive, they choose to speak of another year, but one thing for us is certain: no pensioner will receive, in January 2024, less than he received in December 2023. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Laughter and protests of CH, PCP and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u105	This is disrespect for pensioners!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u106	And the question that I return to the opposition is whether you will know what was the greatest increase in pensions proposed by any government since the beginning of this century. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are facing an energy crisis we have never seen. Will you know the opposition when it's over? We have a war in European space. Will you know the opposition when it's over? We have a crisis in the distribution of fertilizers and cereals in the world. Will you know the opposition when it's over? What we need today is, in the face of a climate of uncertainty, to keep our feet on the ground and to ensure that the Portuguese will not have worse living conditions and will see their income improved, because that is what we are working for. And here we are also in 2024, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to continue to tell the Portuguese that their income will increase and their living conditions will improve. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u107	We now move on to the first round of speeches. To that end, Mr Carlos Pereira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u108	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: My first word is for Mrs Paula Santos, basically to say that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group regrets that the CFP — and in some ways also the Left Block — has put out of all the solutions to help the lives of the Portuguese people.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u109	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u110	We live in very difficult, very complicated times, and since last year's Budget that decided to jump off the boat, they decided to make a burnt land policy. [[PCP protests.]] That's too bad! We are sorry, but the Portuguese are seeing and they don't like it, it doesn't really help the policy they've made over the years.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u111	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u112	Mr Minister, it is necessary, in fact, today, following what I said about the pulpit, to remind the Portuguese that what we are doing has not always been done that way. The fight against a crisis, of this or other nature, did not always follow this path and it is necessary to remind the Portuguese that others, in this House, do not think the same way as we and the government have acted to safeguard the interest of all Portuguese. There were times, indeed—and it must be remembered—in which the law was changed to reduce and make pensions cuts. There were times when the Portuguese were threatened with the ceiling on social security, limiting reforms and giving pensioners money to investment funds.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u113	Really? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u114	There were, moreover, times when hundreds of millions of euros of Portuguese reforms were given to Brussels. He made himself in a brazen manner, with a disembarkation, telling the Portuguese that this was really the best way. There were times, indeed, when this was told to the Portuguese. The speaker displayed the title of a newspaper article. Mr. André Ventura, who also accompanied this, can't read and so will I read to you: « Courts in wages and pensions must be permanent ». I repeat : « Courts in wages and pensions must be permanent ». This was said in this House in a fortnightly debate in 2014.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u115	You didn't learn the lesson well!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u116	And, Mr. Joaquim Miranda Sarmento, do you know who was sitting in that chair where you are? The same person who is in there, in the PSD office, to understand what the PSD performance on this matter we are discussing today! [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, Mrs. Minister, allow me to go further. And we need to go further as a result of the comparison between the anti-inflation programme presented by the government and what was presented by the PSD. It's worth doing. I would say, paraphrasing, finally, the failed analogy made by Mr Baptista Leite, in the previous intervention, that, in the same way that a cow without wings does not fly or a toad without legs does not jump, an anti-inflation program without robustness and without the necessary dimension does not help to control inflation. It is incredible that the PSD has been saying, with a cry, that there was a need for social sensibility, that it was necessary to return the money that the State supposedly received more from the Portuguese citizens, and that they then pass over. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members and Portuguese, in front of EUR 4 billion packages to address the terrible situation of increased inflation and loss of purchasing power, the PSD suggests a package of EUR 1000 million or then, in despair, a package of EUR 1500 million. Mr Miranda Sarmento, this package is 120 % lower than the one presented by the PS government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, it is worth saying — and perhaps this is the best word to characterize what the PSD has done — bearing in mind what a well-known Portuguese politician once said: it is little, it is very little the anti-inflation proposal that Mr has put forward in this House. In fact, I would say that the PSD even in its anti-inflation and crisis-fighting proposal has shown that it is austerity. Its anti-inflation and crisis-fighting proposal is itself austere, taking into account the totally different dimension of what the PS presented and the PSD presented. Just some data to finish and so there is no doubt. In addition to the 4 billion of the Government's proposal versus the 1500 million — which is already benevolent — the proposal that the honourable Member has had the opportunity to submit, for pensions, the Government's proposal reaches 2, 7 million Portuguese, while the proposal of the PSD reaches 2, 3 million. The PS Government's proposal has a significant but immediate scope for pensions because the PS and the Government have decided to present and now give pensioners—it is now that they need money and not in 2024 — 250 €, and you propose 40 €. So the pensioners who are at home know well what we're talking about and know well what they have to choose. But more: on incomes, you propose a food voucher — that assistanceist thing that you, in an almost paternalistic logic, like to present to the Portuguese people — of 40 €. The PS has already shown twice 60 € and now it has 125 €. And it's not worth saying that it doesn't work for anything.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u117	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u118	I'm done now, Madam President. We are well aware that the food cassava has increased 138 times over the past six months, so the Government's proposal allows the Portuguese to cope with the difficulties, not just the food cassava. Finally, just to finish, Madam President, we also have solutions for income and energy solutions, something that you do not even present in your proposals. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u119	Mr Joaquim Miranda Sarmento, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u120	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this government programme and in relation to pensions, we have illusion and we are wrong. Illusion because what the government is assigning to pensioners is no more than half of what comes from law enforcement. In other words, the government anticipates EUR 1000 million of expenditure which was committed to 2023 and will be incurred in 2022. If we withdraw these 1000 million expenditure, the programme that the Government presented on Monday is worth EUR 1, EUR 4 billion, which means that it is slightly below the PSD programme and that the word 'little' has become fashionable in the Socialist Party — they have already used it in another context, but I see that they have recovered it for this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u121	If we retire!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u122	Why is this important and why is this an illusion? Because when we look at the government programme and ask ourselves what's given to pensioners as an additional, the answer is zero. [[PSD applause.]] It's zero because what's given to them in October is half the increase they would be entitled to from January. But here is another point, within the illusion, which is important and has to do with the IRS. It is that the government in the State budget for 2022 did not update the steps. The government will probably update the steps in the State budget by 2023 and, if it does not, in view of the levels of inflation we have, this will correspond to a brutal increase in taxes. But if the Government updates the IRS steps in the State Budget to 2023, the delivery of half the increase in the pension in October will pay more IRS in 2022 than what it would pay if it were paid during the year 2023. So here too you penalise pensioners. Besides illusion, we have the deception. The mistake is that it really is a permanent pension court. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u123	In this debate we have already recalled the expression 'little'. Perhaps you would also like to recall the memorandum that the PS government signed with the troika. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u124	in this memorandum, there was in fact on page 3, in point 1.11, a pension cut of 1500 € between 3, 5 % and 10 %. [[PSD applause.]] Perhaps these good old days of the austerity of the Socialist Party and the memorandum that the Socialist Party Government signed with the troika to be remembered, because it is very simple to explain to the Portuguese what will happen: pensioners will receive, in October, half of the increase they would be entitled to in 2023, which means that in 2023 they receive the other half, but in 2024, the increase that will happen will not include this provision in October 2022. [[It's a robbery!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u125	This is clear from the statements by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance and therefore this portion which will be paid to pensioners in October will not be paid again in 2023, in 2024 or in the rest of the lives of each pensioner. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u126	This is, in fact, a permanent pension cut. And it is enough to see, and with that I will finish, because my time is also ending, the reaction of Dr. Maria do Rosário Gama, of the Association of Pensioners, Pensioners and Reformers, that same night—because the illusion and deception that the Prime Minister tried to sell were then clearly unmasked— when he said it was a pension cut. In fact, there is no one today who analyses what was announced on Monday and Tuesday and does not conclude that it is a pension court. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u127	Mr Andre Ventura, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u128	Madam President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: Would you like to start by asking a question that I think the Portuguese who are accompanying us at home do: where is Fernando Medina? Where is the Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u129	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u130	So instead of the conversation of the « there was time and there was history», the question that Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, today they should do to your government because the Minister for Finance is hiding in the house instead of being here responding to Parliament. That is what you should be asking today. [[Congrats from the CH.]] They send here the Ministers who, from the Budget, will know a tenth of what Fernando Medina knows, because he has prepared the Budget, according to himself. But why? We all know why. Because Fernando Medina wants to hide and do not want to come to Parliament to face the ambush of the Budget and the package she presented to the Portuguese. [[Congrats from the CH.]] That is the truth of those here today! But right now, sirs. Members of the Government, I would like to reply to the Socialist Party's bench, which said "there was time, there was time" — the history channel was good at this bench, because it is always "time, there was time" — to say that I also remember that there was a time when Prime Minister Antonio Costa said: "with the PS there will never be austerity, with the PS, there will never be cuts, with the PS, and I will take my word as correct, there will always be replacement of yields". [[PS protests.]] Perhaps with this we realized why Medina and Costa are not here today: because the package they present to the Portuguese is the hidden austerity with which they want to deceive Portugal. This may give to some, but it doesn't give to all and let's go to numbers, Minister. In the last year, the government raised EUR 12 billion in IRS, EUR 12 billion, with the costs that they introduced to the Portuguese; in IRC it raised EUR 7 billion; in VAT it raised EUR 11, EUR 5 billion and even with the infamous ISP (charge on oil and energy products) it raised EUR 1, EUR 8 billion.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u131	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u132	We can all account — and for those who don't know, I distribute the calculator — to realize that there are EUR 20 billion here and the government package is EUR 4 billion. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u133	Do you know what this is called? I'm stealing! That's what's in Portugal. Stealing is what we have! [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS protests.]] The government says, however, that despite this hidden theft — I take the words I say — will give pensioners a great increase. Mr. Minister and Mr. Secretary of State, I would like you to be honest with the Portuguese. Is it true that the formula for calculating pensions has been changed? Is it not true that what the government is giving in pensions is a mere anticipation of what we will have next year? Is it true or not what we know today and wanted to show you, that pensioners risk losing, per year, 600 €, from 2024? The speaker displayed the cut of news. I wanted anyone to see us at home to know this: this government lied to Portugal when it said it was going to increase pensions or safeguard income. From 2024 onwards, pensioners will lose hundreds of euros every year. This is the truth that the government may not want to pass, but that it is clear as water in the numbers that no one can hide. The government says: 'Well, but let's go to electricity VAT. For so many years asking for this, we have decided to be nice and now give the VAT of electricity. » Anyone who was watching this debate at home and listening to Mr. PS members thought: "At last, Antonio Costa had a rebate of consciousness. But, as the children say, « only not». I have an invoice here, Mr Secretary of State — I can send you, if you want, to someone who lives alone. The speaker displayed a copy of an electricity bill. in a month of vacation, when on 12 days he was not at home, the consumption was 3964 kWh. [[It can't be!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u134	Maybe, maybe!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u135	That's the consumption of a battalion! It's at least 30 people!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u136	The government has lowered VAT — and I want the Portuguese to hear this — for the first 100 kWh, which means, my dear ones, a savings of 1 €! You can do your math today at home. What the Government proposes is a reduction of €1 in VAT, €1! Make the accounts, and I ask all Portuguese to make the accounts at home, when VAT actually comes down — 1 € is what this government gave you to lower the VAT.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u137	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u138	I will finish, Madam President. I therefore believe that when you came to this Parliament today you could have done something else. I could have apologized to the Portuguese. I could have apologized for what the government has failed to do, and above all I could have apologized to the thousands who, at the time we are talking about, are filling their cars in gasoline bombs and see the Spanish people with direct discounts and VAT at minimum levels and we have no courage to lower the VAT on fuels. It's a shame, it's a shame! It is a shame this government has to respond to. Shame! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u139	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u140	I will finish, Madam President. Mr Minister, instead of coming to lecture history, answer this: how is the government not able to help the Portuguese at the most difficult time in their lives? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u141	It's possible, it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u142	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Castro of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u143	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate proposed by the CFP today has three themes — excessive profits, cost of living, inequalities. For us, there is a clear common denominator on these three points: excessive tax revenue. Let us address, point by point, one by one, the issues that are raised here. First of all, profits are taxed in Portugal, which already has the second highest tax rate on large companies in the European Union. In addition, extraordinary contributions increase to 36 %. Repeat, 36%! This is when countries that compete directly with Portugal practice rates between 12, 5 % and 20 %. Even with some countries temporarily rising their rates, Portugal will always be at the top of the countries that most charge companies. Although we have a very vicious government in taxes, for the CFP, it is never very little. The government says 'kills'! , the PCP says « sfola! Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u144	The question is 'for whom'...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u145	Second theme, cost of living. Is it expensive? He is. Is there any way to solve the problem? There's, uh, lowering taxes. Of course, indirect taxes that most affect proportionally those who earn the least. VAT and ISP are clear examples. But yes, also about income. For the same levels of income, Portugal is one of the countries of the European Union which punishes tax salaries the most. This year the government has made an increase in taxes to all Portuguese with inflation. And yes, inflation — we repeat — is also a hidden tax. The Government considers that a Portuguese who earns 2000 € gross per month is rich. The state is almost half the cost borne by a company when it increases a salary from 900 € to 1000 €. Almost half! Open... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u146	As long as this kind of tax extortion happens, well the PCP and everyone complains about the cost of living. He'll go on and we'll always be pointing to the side. Third issue: inequalities? Yes! Not only, but also, the result of the lack of opportunities. A country that penalizes growth, people, success, that has bureaucracy and everything to prevent growth, investment and wealth, cannot expect inequalities to flourish, due to lack of opportunities for all. That's what we're seeing! It is always strange to hear the PCP talk about inequality. It is that in all the experiences in which communist parties came to power the best equality they achieved was in poverty. And low leveling doesn't want to, thank you! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u147	We are going to talk about extraordinary profits, surplus current balance, extraordinary revenues, excessive taxes, which should be in the stock market of families and businesses and not in the State. I will therefore recall the following sentences: we are faced with a government that has been taxed; the State budget and current policies do not serve public services, the improvement of businesses and growth, nor do they serve to restore purchasing power, and the extraordinary revenues of the hidden tax which is inflation would be better in the businesses and in the stock market of families. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] All these phrases were said here at the close of the State budget and there is a great conclusion which results from this: we cannot persist in wrong policies and actions and think that in the end everything will go well. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u148	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u149	Mr President, Mrs Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: The brutal increase in energy and fuel prices did not result only in unbearable sacrifices for the majority of Portuguese, resulted, and is resulting, in millionaire profits for the economic groups of the sector. The government knows perfectly well that this is the case and continues to realize that it knows nothing and sees nothing about it. Paraphrasing the poet: ignorance is certainly not and incompetence does not strike like this. These are the political options of those who prefer to leave the interests of the economic power untouched, rather than defending the national interest. The measures announced by the Government are short, are late and do not answer the substantive questions. Return to regulated rate in natural gas? We have been proposing this measure for years.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u150	It's true! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u151	Do you know when it was last introduced? It was now, in May! But you had the votes against CH, IL, PS and PS! The same thing for the regulated rate of electricity. And the problem remains, moreover, as in the VAT of energy. In fact, the Government has chosen to maintain the same 23 % of VAT in both electricity and natural gas, both in the supply gas. The crucial question remains, which the Government insists on ignoring, the absolute lack of control over price formation and the abusive and unjustified margins, which continue with total impunity. The gross margin of refinement in Galp almost fivefold this year. This is how the profits of the economic groups of the sector are fired at the expense of the people's sacrifices, because the government refuses to deal with these interests, refuses to control prices, allowing this exploitation to be made. The Government refuses to tax the genuinely speculative and unjustified profits that are being threatened at the expense of the people's sacrifices. The very concrete question is: until when, Mr. Members of the government? Until when is this impunity of the economic groups? Until this policy that leaves the Portuguese fundamental problems unanswered and gives the most powerful hands, subsidizing their profits? We need to move forward with the reduction of the tax burden on energy and fuel — we say this for a long time — not in a partial, timely and timely manner, but in an integrated and systematic manner. We have always stressed that this measure would be necessary, but not enough, because it is necessary to effectively control and fix prices, not allowing exorbitant values, and to advance with the extraordinary taxation of the profits of these economic groups also as regards energy and fuel, because workers and reformers pay more taxes. The problem is that these economic groups, which are earning millions with the sacrifices of the people, are oweing us a lot! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u152	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u153	Mr President, Mrs Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have today confirmation that the time that the Government has gained to insist on the illusion of temporary inflation has been lost wages for all people who were left to their fate. After more than half a year of the first alerts, what the government presents to the country is little more than an illusion. Mr. Minister, the government owes the country the truth. When he did not update the wages to inflation, what the government imposed was a cut in wages. It was good for the government to explain what is € 125 once a year when workers lose more than one salary per year. Think of a salary of 1000 € : 125 € represent 0, 9 % per year. The basic supermarket account increases by more than 12 % per year. It was good for the Government to explain to the Portuguese that the reduction in electricity VAT does not apply to the whole account, but only to part of the consumption. I went to see the government's 2020 accounts and I would like Mr.Minister to confirm that saving for a family up to four people is € 1.07 per month. It does not give for two coffees per month the large measure that the Government has brought down from electricity VAT — government data. We will withdraw the pension money, which is a achievement and because it was already due to pensioners. 1400 million is what the Government proposes to stop and alleviate price escalation. I repeat, 1400 million. It seems very much, but only until July had the government already received more than 5,000 million in tax revenue than it was waiting for. I repeat: of what I was waiting for! Another 5,000 million! That is why the Government cannot be taken seriously, and that is why this plan cannot be taken seriously. What is at stake is not a government financial effort, what is at stake is not budgetary caution, what is at stake is a government that will deliberately accept the impoverishment to make once again shines that fill the ego of many ministers but empty the public services and empty the pockets of those who work. Is that why the PS asked for an absolute majority? Oh, my God! To invoke the past praise of management while doing little more than nothing? Mrs. Minister, it was in management, and by the requirement of the Left Block in the negotiations, that the law of updating pensions was frozen. It is the same law that the government will now tear and bury, penalizing pensions. For pensioners, the government promises even less than nothing. So answer me, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias — he is not here, but he will answer afterwards — who is finally giving his hand to the right? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u154	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u155	Madam President, Deputy Minister for Parliamentary Affairs and other members of the Government, Members: Today would it be appropriate to ask « where is Wally? The same applies to both the Minister of Finance and the Government's measures in relation to the real responses to the country. In fact, not only did we not find the Minister so that he could fully explain to Parliament what this package represents — in particular what he is going to do, structurally, about the necessary relief of the tax burden on families — as we still do not have on the horizon a review of the steps of the IRS in this country, which is still 9. the OECD country with the highest tax burden. More: we continue to hold hands to the polluting industry, and that is incomprehensible. We have heard, in the words of the Minister, said with pride, that they supported the load applicable to fuels to relieve families. But what we need to ask, Mrs Minister, is how we will fight the social crisis at the same time as we fight the climate crisis if we continue to extend our hand to more than that. Who's more profitable and who's more polluted is who's most benefited by the government! On the other hand, what the NAP argues is that, in addition to the necessary tax on excessive profits that the government will already withdraw, it is essential to guarantee support that not only goes through the freezing of social passes, in particular through direct incentive, with the free passage to younger people and pensioners, as well as a 25% discount on public transport in general. What we have in front of us, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an unprecedented social crisis and a climate crisis as a background, which has not disappeared. We continue to allow bubbles to be left to the oil industry, or if we continue to encourage fossil fuels, it is manifestly unwise and does not solve the social crisis ahead.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u156	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u157	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The Minister is right about one thing: the opposition does not know how long it will last to increase the prices of fertilizers, microchips, energy. At least I don't know, but the government doesn't know, and it wasn't me who was here saying, a few months ago, that inflation was temporary in the sense that it was going to be temporary in a short period. Of course she's going to be temporary—it's all over! — but there is a country over this inflationary episode and the big question is whether this country, after this crisis, will be stronger or weaker. I asked the Minister of Finance why, when there was a strike, this strike was not used, and today we realize: because the strike was kept to make a beautiful one. The European rules remain suspended and even within European rules we have room for progress, but the Minister continues to say that he wants to have 1, 9 % deficit at the end of the year. No one is going to congratulate you either in Brussels or in Berlin, or certainly here, because this is a time of crisis. The deficit is not always a good thing, it is not always a bad thing, it is to support at the right times the people who need it. Even if they do not want to increase the deficit, then please advance in the collection of the unexpected and excessive profits of companies. There are those who are making a lot of money with this war and there are the proceeds to be able to support people more.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u158	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u159	So there are some measures that are interesting. But the Devil is in the details and there are details that need to be clarified, under the penalty of becoming even diabolical. Is the Government prepared to put into law that the additional pension benefit of October this year will count for the subsequent increases of 2023, 2024 and 2025 and that no one will lose anything of what he thought would be pensionable in the future?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u160	For an intervention, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs, Antonio Mendonça Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u161	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The government has mobilized the possible budgetary margin to respond to a difficult time for families to live. This budgetary margin stems from the difference between the revenue we have and the additional commitments we have. That is why in this year we proposed and presented to the country we are currently mobilising EUR 2400 million to ensure that all pensioners up to 12 IAS(indicating social support) have an additional benefit already in October and we are guaranteeing all income holders an additional benefit of € 125. We are, with the caution that it is necessary in times of uncertainty such as those we live in — also anticipating that monetary policy will have its effect on the various economies — to ensure with the margin that we have today what we can give without ever taking away any of the Portuguese. That is our commitment: never give what we cannot give or we will have to withdraw later. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would like to conclude in this first speech — because the government still has a lot to say — stressing that, from the point of view of taxes, we need to speak the whole truth and not just come to Parliament to make small fires. The decrease we made at fuel taxation level is 0, 28 € / l in petrol and 0, 30 € / l in gasoline, which means that if the government's measures had not been taken, the Portuguese paid more than 16 € in a 50 l tank of gasoline and more than 14 € in a 50 l tank of gas oil.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u162	They're subsidizing Galp's profits!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u163	So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what we are doing, always strictly, is ensuring what the country has the ability to respond, and that is what will enable us to face the year of 2023, which will be a year of great uncertainty, with greater confidence. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u164	For an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State for Social Security, Gabriel Bastos.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u165	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to the issues raised here concerning pensions, I wanted to share with you the following: the government's option was to ensure that in 2023 pensioners guarantee an equivalent pension income...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u166	Not the equivalent!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u167	... resulting from the application of the legal update formula. In October, the Government would like to allocate an exceptional complement to address immediately the consequences of inflation. This supplement corresponds to half a pension, i.e. the pensioner will receive in October more than 50 % of the value of the pension that he or she is earning.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u168	It's because pensions are low!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u169	It is not any trick, illusion, ambush or fraud,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u170	Fraud, exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u171	... according to the various expressions used by the opposition rhetoric. By announcing the terms of the next year's update, the Government will do so in a transparent and timely manner, without hiding anything. For the various statements heard during yesterday and today, either by the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance or by the Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, it is clear that the option taken does not harm the current pensioners by 1 cent and reflects a sense of responsibility and prudence that we should all have. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The incorporation into the value of the pension of this extraordinary and atypical peak of inflation would inevitably call into question the sustainability of the pension system, a system that relies, as everyone knows, on an intergenerational solidarity logic and, therefore, on a trust agreement that respects the current pensioners, but also those who today contribute to the system and who in the future will benefit from a pension. We are focused on an extraordinary environment that is important to respond. It's not worth extrapolating today for 2024 or any other year.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u172	You don't care!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u173	It is difficult for me to accept, but even I understand that some do not resist speaking in court, but this, of course, is absolutely abusive. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Even this morning, the Prime Minister has once again become absolutely clear: this assessment and this reflection will have to be made in due course, based on more accurate factual information, which we will know over the coming year. [[CH, PCP and BE protests.]] The times we live in are of enormous uncertainty; uncertainty is indeed the new normal. In addition, in this regard, the committee has already been set up,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u174	One more commission!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u175	... which was announced in this House, which has the coordination and technical support of the ILO (International Labour Organisation), to study the sustainability of the pension system over the coming months in relation to demographic reality, economic, technological and even sociological transformations in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u176	And now they're starting!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u177	This work will be largely involved and therefore there will be an opportunity to listen to Portuguese society, starting with the social partners. We therefore also look forward to this contribution, so that, at the appropriate time, the government will decide in a responsible manner. In short, the Government will be careful and take the decisions it imposes. Just as we answered during the pandemic, we will be next to the Portuguese for more of this adversity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u178	For an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State for Environment and Energy, João Galamba.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u179	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I will make two brief comments on the issue of gas and electricity. The Left Block and the PCP, and the arrive also now seem to have a fetishism by the word « VAT », forgetting that our main concern is not to say words, is to defend the Portuguese,... [[CH protests.]] ... and the measures taken by the Government have had a greater impact on Portuguese families — which is the only thing that really matters — than any proposal from the Arrival, the Bloc or the CFP. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH, PCP and BE protests.]] The return to the regulated gas tariff benefits 99, 7 % of Portuguese consumers and there is no VAT measure, VAT reduction, which is even remotely close to the impact of this decline. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] A VAT measure, in order to have an impact similar to the return to the regulated rate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u180	It didn't exist anymore if it wasn't the PCP!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u181	... would have to have a negative rate of about 50 %, i.e. every time someone bought VAT from the state, because it is the only way of VAT approaching the measure we took. As far as electricity is concerned, all Members in this House seem to forget that all low-voltage consumers, which includes all Portuguese families and some small businesses, can now return to the regulated rate, or have it, and that regulated rate has fallen in July 2, 6 %. I repeat, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the regulated rate available today to any low voltage electricity consumer has fallen 2, 6 %. So, some Members are here so concerned about their fetishisms and their obsessions that have forgotten the fundamental: look at the Portuguese face to face and ensure policies that improve their incomes and living conditions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u182	Don't be insolent!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u183	...and that's what the measures, whether in gas or electricity, have ensured. And I repeat, no measure proposed by these parties, whether for gas or for electricity, is even remotely approaching the effect proposed here. [[CH, PCP and BE protests.]] It is true that the CFP proposed a return to the regulated gas tariff a few months ago, but it is also important to say that, at that time, there was no increase in the price impact on the other tariffs and, therefore, there was an unnecessary measure. Mrs. Members, the measures are taken when necessary and the Government announced this on the exact day on which there was an announcement of an increase in gas tariffs. That is where the Portuguese families stand, and that is what the government has done.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u184	About the bottle gas not a word!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u185	Therefore, and summarizing at the moment Portugal has the lowest energy inflation in Europe as a whole. I repeat, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Portugal has at this time the lowest inflation in Europe in the energy sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Arrival, who have mysterious roles with highly suspected consumption, instead of using a consumption of 3000 kW/month in an empty house, I reported this consumption to the Judicial Police, because I suspect that consumption would indicate something else. [[PS laughter.]] [[CH protests.]] But Mr. André Ventura spoke here about the VAT drop in Spain, and the only thing I can conclude is that Mr. Deputies does not make the slightest idea nor has he ever looked at an electricity bill in Portugal and Spain,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u186	I've seen it now!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u187	... because if you look you would realize that the rates for Portuguese families are significantly lower than in Spain. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u188	We finish the first round and we'll move on to the second round. Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u189	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : The Socialist Party has presented a broad response package to the price increase equivalent to 1 % of GDP (gross domestic product ), which reaches the vast majority of Portuguese families. Inflation measures focus on the recovery of income and return of income: EUR 1800 million of the 2400 million of the programme consists of returns of income, and that is why our programme is called « First Families » and not « First Austerity »,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u190	You lie first!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u191	...that would be the name that would have the program if it was led by the PSD. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But not with the PS. We have presented a robust package of measures, already highlighted here today, measures that are, in fact, in line with the process and with the program that we have been following since 2015, and that we cannot ignore, of valuing incomes, of valuing rights, of social welfare, of valuing pensions. But the package of measures and price control, that was what I wanted to focus on, received criticism from all parties — it would receive criticism whatever the measures were — but it received particularly radical criticism from the PSD, which somehow confuses what is the opposition to the PS with a certain opposition to the country. But the PSD problem is not with these measures. The problem of the neopassist PSD, which, in fact, are four, are the following: the first problem, which is a mess for the PSD, is that Portuguese have memory. It is a mess because the day after the government presented the measures, the Portuguese looked at the cover of the newspapers and saw nothing of it. The speaker posted a newspaper. That is, they didn't see pension cuts, they didn't see allowances, they didn't see pay cuts; they saw exactly the opposite, and if they saw this was because the PS is in the government, it's not the PSD leading a crisis response program. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly, the PSD has an arithmetic, mathematics problem because the PSD considers the program presented by the PS to be insufficient, it considers a programme of EUR 2400 million short. Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it was a good opportunity to explain how a programme that has EUR 900 million more than the second version of the programme that you have presented is a programme that responds more insufficiently than the programme that VV. Ex. presented. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So the more it's less. There is an arithmetic problem, which reveals a problem of self-criticism on the part of the PSD, and we record, or, then, there is a problem of mathematics here that not the best specialists at the Sá Carneiro Institute will be able to solve. Thirdly, the PSD has a problem of political identity and coherence with the country programme, because the PSD has always responded to crises with austerity, has always responded to crises with income cuts, with devaluation of pensions, with, moreover, inability to control deficit and debt, contrary to what the Socialist Party did. The gentlemen recovered Dr. Steps Rabbit for the Pontal Party and then eventually betrayed Dr. Steps Rabbit's own legacy by criticizing PS for alleged inadequacies in the response to the crisis, when they represent more than the PSD itself proposed. Perhaps it is lack of PSD habit to respond to the crisis with responses that benefit Portuguese. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as the people say, in these criticisms « does not beat the boot with the partridge».
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u192	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u193	On pensions, and I would like to highlight this theme, the PSD tries to delude and scare the Portuguese with the issue of pensions. Furthermore, it is the PSD of the "grey plague", it is the PSD of pension cuts, it is the PSD that after the troika brought to Brussels a program of stability and growth with a cut of 600 million euros in paid pensions. This is the legacy of PSD in pensions, and now tries to scare and mislead the Portuguese. It is therefore very important to make the following clear in this debate: firstly, the overall value of pensions paid in Portugal increased by 25%, increased by EUR 3.8 billion since 2015, and this has only happened because the PS is in government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What we are now going to do, what has been announced is the anticipation of some of the increase in the amount to which pensioners would be entitled next year, making the money available today, when it is needed in the Portuguese stock market, and making a further increase in January 2023, and therefore there is not one hundred less than the one they would be entitled. The pensioners are receiving 14, 5 months of pension this year, with a payment already in October, with a total cost of EUR 1000 million for the public record. The pensioners gain in the short term, already gaining the necessary value in next month to cope with the increase in the cost of living. contrary to what some have said here today, the decision made ensures that no pensioner loses purchasing power in 2023, because the addition sum with the update will give exactly the same value and, in addition, in 2023, we will have the greatest increase in pensions since entry into the euro. For 2024, the increases will be made, as has already been said, and Mr. Prime Minister has already said, based on the inflation of 2023, which is currently impossible to predict. In the last two months it has increased by 50 % according to estimates from the European Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u194	We'll see, we'll see!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u195	Finally, I refer to the famous formula for calculating pensions. Mrs. Members, I hoped that any party could talk about the calculation formula, but not the PSD, because the PSD can only talk about the pension calculation formula to apologize to pensioners, because the PSD never applied the pension update formula. The key word is "never"! He never applied it! [[P.S.'s applause.]] It did not apply the formula in 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015. Why? Because inflation was more moderate, but it had to increase pensions and did not want to do so. The PS, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that he has twice refrained from applying this formula. But you did so not to withdraw income from pensioners, not to reduce pensions. And since 2016 we have always updated pensions, even when inflation was negative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u196	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u197	I will finish, Madam President. I'm only asking for 20 seconds. Mrs. Members, we have updated pensions in an extraordinary way, above the formula, to value pensioners' incomes, and we have done so - always with the opposition of the PSD, in the valuation of pensioners' incomes. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It's not worth confusing the Portuguese, it's not worth scaring the pensioners. We are here to respond to the crisis due to developments,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u198	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u199	... valuing Portuguese incomes, providing the instruments necessary to respond to rising prices, to rising inflation, with social protection, and, above all, preserving the incomes of those who have worked their entire lives. That's what the PS will keep doing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u200	For an intervention, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u201	Madam President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: The Portuguese—and it has already been said a number of times throughout this afternoon—are suffering a great increase in the cost of living, as a result of the exponential increase in inflation, and are also losing purchasing power and experiencing serious difficulties. Therefore, it is essential that measures be taken to immediately turn to businesses and families. In fact, this should be a common objective. But in fact, the programme that was announced last Monday differs greatly from what was presented by the PSD. First, it diverges in timing, because families and businesses have been suffering from rising inflation and the cost of living and are losing purchasing power for a long time. And the truth is that the measures should have reached the ground, but the government did not want to hear the PSD and it is only now that it implements the measures to take effect from October. [[PSD applause.]] Secondly, the program presented by the PSD is more focused and socially fairer. Why? Because it has as its priority the poorest, i.e., it is directed to the poorest, the most needy, the most suffering and the effects of inflation. The government, with its measures, is not helping families because, not having these people as a priority, it is not giving as much as it should. Thirdly, the PSD programme is clear, transparent and true. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u202	Everyone understands the PSD program. It's all on the lines and nothing on the lines. [[PSD applause.]] on the contrary, the program presented by the government is full of financial tricks, skills and engineering. Otherwise, let's look at a few examples. Let's start with the first trick: electricity tax. The reduction in electricity VAT, as announced, seems to be widespread for all but not. There is only one part of electricity consumption whose VAT is low; the part taxed at 23 % is not low. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members, what does this do? This means that if people are actually being deceived, it makes the support that should come to people leave many, the vast majority of families, out of the way. It's rare! So there is a trick here, because a measure is presented as if it were generalized and, in fact, it is not. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u203	But the biggest trick presented in this programme, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, this is about pensions. It has already been mentioned here by the PSD, but it is important to strengthen. The government is not telling people the truth. And the government, which here today has spoken in transparency and indeed, must follow precisely what it says, must act according to what it says, must act transparently and truly and must explain to pensioners that they will not receive 1 cent more than what the law guarantees them. [[PSD applause.]] This must be said: there is no increase in pensions. contrary to what they wanted to believe, there is no increase in pensions, there is an advance of what pensioners had the right to receive. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] Therefore, they receive half of the pension now, in October, and they are withdrawn this half from January 2023. This is the reality. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u204	And telling the truth still implies, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen — and ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, because you have to give these explanations, the measures are from the Government — a pension cut.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u205	That's a lie! That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u206	It's not worth trying skills and tricks, it's not worth it, this is reality. What has been announced is that the increase in pensions for the year 2023 will not have as reference the approximately 8 % that should have, but rather about 4 %. Therefore, this is a basis according to which pensions from 2024 will be updated. Is there a cut or is there no cut? There's a cut in the pensions! [[Of course there's cut!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u207	Therefore, you must be true and tell pensioners what you have presented. Don't try to fool the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u208	It is shameful to take advantage of the Portuguese!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u209	Finally, I want to say that this programme, with these measures and how they will effectively reach people, is not a programme of true social justice. on the contrary, the programme presented by the PSD, which concerns pensioners and the weakest, provides real support for this year of 2022 and ensures that next year, in 2023, and next, there will be no cuts in pensions. The government, which is here, has to answer with truth and transparency and say why it made this option and why it tries to continue to deceive the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u210	Mr Filipe Melo, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u211	Madam President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: I begin by responding not to a statement but to a provocation by Mr. Secretary of State João Galamba, when he spoke about the tax burden compared to Spain. I must remind you, if you do not know, that we have a tax burden that is far higher than Spanish. Otherwise, see : in 2000 the tax burden in Spain was 38, 6 % and today it is 39, 3 % ; in 2000 the tax burden in Portugal was 37, 3 % and today it is 41, 8 %. It is important that the Government begins to realize that, before speaking to the Portuguese, it must have all the information in its possession to stop telling lies. [[Rice from the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy.]] Don't laugh, Mr Secretary of State, don't laugh. He's in a real house and that's not the picture he'll want to give to the Portuguese. Don't laugh at the difficulties the Portuguese are going through. Don't laugh! It's too bad for you! [[Congrats from the CH.]] The measures presented are at least embarrassing for Portuguese. We have a historic inflation: food has risen by 12 %. What are you guys doing? They give 125 €. We have an energy inflation — yes, it is for the Secretary of State who is always laughing — of 30 %. I repeat, 30%! How does a 30% inflation justify? This is your responsibility and I have not seen you here with the ability to explain or have the desire to explain to the Portuguese the 30% inflation in the energy sector. We have an inflation of 6 % in the price of services, twice as much as in the European Union. Double! We have the housing price index — Mr. Secretary of State should know this — before 2015, the start of the socialist government, of 182 points. This is crazy! We are talking about 40 points above the euro area average. It is impossible to live in Portugal. And what does the government do? It features a very nice package of measures, 125 €, which gives 34 cents per day of each year, and 50 € per dependent less. You know what that gives, sirs. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries? Give two milk cans for children who have to take it and from there they starve if they are waiting for the help of this government!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u212	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u213	I tell you more, or rather, I remind you what you should know: there is an article, which is very well done, as you can see, which says that from 2024 the pensions of €500 will lose €261 — I am not the one who says it, is an article of opinion that has concrete and well proven facts — and the pensions of € 1500 will lose €785. This is the way in which the socialist government again deceives the Portuguese, with a fallacy, by creating the Programme « Families First », when it should be « lies first ». They say this is the government of the right accounts, it's the government that gives 125 euros, but that's a burden for families. It is a shame that this value is giving, given the inflationary scenario that we live in our country. The families are poor, they will continue to be poor, and with this socialist government they will end in misery. But we're the only ones in this house to point the finger. [[Congrats from the CH.]] We don't see on any bench the ability to come here to say that you lie to the Portuguese. And I say this by looking at you in your eyes: you lie shamelessly to the Portuguese and nobody says anything, because there is a very large vassalage to the socialist bench and to this government. Don't count on us. We are elected to tell you the truth. And the truth is this: you steal the Portuguese, you lie to the Portuguese! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u214	For an intervention, Mr Rui Rocha, of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u215	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: Today, in this Parliament, the behaviour of this government must be denounced. What you've been doing for months is austerity hidden from outside packages. You have been systematically deceiving or trying to deceive the Portuguese. You tried to deceive the Portuguese with the measure of free daycare for everyone. And we all know that today the daycare centers are not, nor are they going to be in the next days, free for everyone. You have tried to deceive the Portuguese with the fiction of the need for the Brussels authorisation to lower the VAT on energy when, since April, you can download the VAT on energy without the need for the Brussels authorisation. You tried to deceive, with this package you presented, pensioners. They took advantage of the situation of fragility and shortage of many pensioners to tell them that they would make an advance—and they will do so—but forgetting that what results from this advance, according to your proposals, is a degradation of the basis of calculation from 2024 onwards.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u216	Do you want to raise taxes on pensioners? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u217	You tried to deceive the Portuguese with electricity VAT, because they promoted the presentation of electricity VAT as if it were a measure applicable to all steps, when it is true that it applies only to the 100 MWh step, which means € 1 per month for each of the Portuguese subjects. This is the value of this "great measure" that you presented!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u218	They want everyone to pay for the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u219	You still tried to deceive the Portuguese with the issue of € 125. If they had done what they should, which was at least to update the steps of the IRS at the inflation rate that they anticipated in the State Budget, the Portuguese in general today would have more money in the purse and would not need a €125 package to help them. The Liberal Initiative, on behalf of the Portuguese people, on behalf of taxpayers and pensioners, has to make this complaint: you persist in the systematic attempt to deceive and deceive the Portuguese. The Liberal Initiative presented a number of measures on the budget that would have prevented the Portuguese from now needing the charity of the Government. We presented the reduction of energy VAT to 6 %, for all steps, not only to the lowest step, we presented a proposal for a reduction of the IRS...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u220	The market is free!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u221	...and at least insist on updating the steps. It was not necessary for the Portuguese generally to be presenting a charitable measure now. The Portuguese who have their work and their income what they need is that the government will allow them to succeed, work and strive according to their abilities. It is true that, in addition to the measures that the Liberal Initiative has presented in due course, it makes sense for the most deprived, for those who have no incomes and for those who have lower incomes to present targeted measures. We agree with that. But everything else could have begun to be solved since April and the government now presents charitable, late measures that do not solve the essentials of the problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u222	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u223	I shall conclude, Madam President. Mrs. Members of the Government, tell Mr. Prime Minister that it is possible to deceive some people for a long time,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u224	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u225	... it is possible to deceive many people for a while, but it is not possible to deceive many people for a long time. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u226	Mr João Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u227	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: The situation with which the Portuguese are faced is extremely difficult. It is a situation that does not derive exclusively from the current situation, but which is based on decades of right-wing policy, based on low wages, precariously, exploiting work and poor reforms, which lead to the growing weakness of the Portuguese people. This situation is based on decades of right-wing policy, promotion of social inequalities and injustices, and enormous external dependence, particularly on food goods and food balance, with a brutal imbalance of more than EUR 4 billion per year. Faced with the brutal loss of purchasing power, the Portuguese have faced unresponsive, temporary, limited and insufficient measures. Inflation does not come only in October, nor will it last only in October, it will continue. In view of the measures announced by the Government, saying that families are first, what we understand and we know is that for the Government, who is first the major economic groups, namely those of distribution, which profit from rising cost of living and rising prices.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u228	What about Ukraine? Oh, my God! What about the war? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u229	This is where the Government rejects the necessary substantive measures! It is clear that sanctions have worsened the situation. The sanctions that you defend fall to the Portuguese people, to their difficulties.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u230	What about the bombs falling in Kiev? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u231	What we have to say is that the government does not present measures like those that the CFP defends. In the case of food goods today, dairy products cost 9 % more, fruit and vegetables cost 10 % more, the price increase of fish is 19 %, the price increase of meat is 17 %. Today, going to the supermarket costs more than 12 %, 4 %, much higher than inflation. What the Government says is that it prefers to allow prices to increase following what the CFP proposes, namely to fix and control prices. [[Protests by PS Member Carlos Pereira.]] This is the way, sirs. Members: to set and control prices, and to reverse many of the speculative prices that the large distribution has applied. The government knows perfectly well that the large distribution does not want to open up its profits. at the same time as the large distribution crushes producer prices, increases prices, exploiting the sacrifice of Portuguese. This is what the government does not want to answer. That is why we have to ask a question, which is whether the government has the courage to deal with the large distribution, whether the government is available to return the profits that the large distribution has withdrawn to the Portuguese, particularly through the speculative increase in prices. Is this the question of whether or not the Government is available to fix, tabulate and even reverse the speculative prices that the large distribution has applied? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u232	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u233	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, who does not want to be a wolf, does not wear his skin. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u234	It is important for you to tell the whole truth about pensions. More than 250 € of pension in 2022 are less than 250 € of pension in 2023 and are less than 250 € of pension each year from 2023. This is what the Government proposes, this is the result of the government's decision to bury the pension updating law that the management has frozen. It was you who admitted this result when you said a short time ago — look at your speech! — that the Government will reduce pensions so as not to reduce pensions. [[PS protests.]] That is what the honourable Member said: the government will reduce pensions so as not to be obliged to reduce pensions!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u235	That's not what he said!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u236	You have to tell people the truth. The result of the end of the pension updating law is that pensioners will lose money every year from 2023 and it is important that this choice be taken. The various arguments that the Government has used in the long debate on inflation do not sound. First, it was that insistence that inflation was temporary, when everyone knew that the effects were permanent. Then came the decision not to update wages, condemning workers to a real cut. Why? Oh, my God! Why are workers condemned to a real cut in their wages? Oh, my God! The answer is swinging: either it is for reasons of budgetary caution, or the right argument that increasing wages increases inflation. Both arguments are false and just look at the accounts. The government returns a small part of the extraordinary revenue it has had with inflation. The scenario is not of budgetary restriction, it is of budgetary abundance at the moment. The deficit will be below forecast. I bet you, Minister, that the deficit will be below the forecast, as it has been every year so far. It is a scenario of budget abundance. Consider what the PS does in a scenario of budget abundance: it will look for the arguments and rhetoric of Pedro Passos Coelho to say that we live above our possibilities, to convince people that impoverishment is inevitable, to convince people that they can only ask for more than a few dollars to fight an inflation that takes them a wage per year. This is what the PS is telling people, that is, that we have to live within our possibilities and that impoverishment is inevitable. On the other hand, everyone knows that wages continue to decline as inflation grows, that inflation is driven not only by war and supply, but also by the huge profit margins of monopolistic and oligopolist sectors, retail or energy. When the government says it is concerned about budgetary prudence, it does not realize why it rejects a tax on extraordinary large profits. You don't get it! It is not clear why the government pays wages to pay for the inflation crisis and leaves large companies loose to carry on the shores and profit from the crisis. The astronomical profits that Galp, Jerome Martins and Sonae have are profits after taxes. They're astronomical because they're working with the crisis, they're working with the country's impoverishment. I wonder if the Government is not ashamed that the German Minister of Finance, who supported the Liberal Initiative, will defend an excessive profit tax that the Government rejects. Does it not embarrass the government that the President of the European Commission will defend a tax on extraordinary profits that the Government rejects? Is it not embarrassing for the government to impose a wage cut on all Portuguese, while leaving Galp, Jerónimo Martins and Sonae to profit from the crisis? These are the questions to which the Government will have to answer, at least until the day when it is obliged, against its will, to create this rate that the Left Block has defended. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u237	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u238	Mr President, Mrs Minister, other members of the Government, Mrs and Mrs Members: Inflation is galloping and the disguised austerity of captivating does not serve to give the answers that families need. Just look at what the state has raised — it is EUR 6, EUR 7 billion. Inflation in food is now 16 %, in the case of energy it is 35 % and the costs for pet animals, compared to last year, have risen 30 %. When we have 2 million people at risk of poverty living in our country and the government is concerned not to accept measures such as that proposed by the NAP to extend the social energy, gas and electricity tariff to these families who are in extreme vulnerability and pensioners, preferring instead to discuss the facts about VAT, it is in fact not to reach the families, not to look them in the eyes, using the words of the Secretary of State, and not to give them the answers they need. I refer to some other measures such as zero VAT for essential food caba and the reduction of VAT for pet animals, not forgetting the orders which remain incomprehensible in the drawer and which should reach the animal protection associations. Why does the government continue to ignore these needs when, at the same time, for livestock, it has already granted the VAT exemption on food in April 2022? With regard to fossil fuels in Germany, low-cost steps have been taken to combat the social crisis while combating the environmental crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u239	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u240	I am indeed concluding, Madam President. In Portugal, we have already given more than EUR 700 million for fossil fuels, a value that is higher than EUR 461 million for the one year of PART ( Tax Reduction Support Programme in Public Transport ). I wonder when we will have measures to effectively deduct the passes, support for businesses, support for families, such as free passes for those who need it and a 25% discount in general, to be truly sustainable and socially fair, rather than handing over to those who do not need it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u241	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u242	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of this debate, at some point, I remembered the words of Minister Pedro Nuno Santos. In fact, not all criticisms of this package have the same consistency. The criticisms on the right remind a little of that anecdotal of «the food is horrible and the doses are small». They say: « This is all horrible, but we wanted more of it. We're gonna cut the taxes, but we're gonna support the most needy with the taxes we just cut. This is austerity, let us do austerity in our own way. Do not keep on seeking. ” That's not what the left says. What the left says is: "These appetizers come late, the doses are small, where is dinner? Do not keep on seeking. ” I mean, we've been in a war for six months now. Where are the measures at the time we are living? Oh, my God! It is very nice to say that the world has changed on 24 February, but then I ask why the same commitments as the government had for the national minimum wage on 30 January are still in force. Everyone has the responsibility to help in the effort society now has to do. Why not the economic agents? Where are the measures to go for money...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u243	Look at the weather!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u244	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, look at the table showing the timing of the interventions and see that it was I who spoke much less and who exceeded much less time when compared with you Ex. How was I saying, where is the tax on excessive profits? In several European countries they are already moving forward towards it. Where are the measures to really advance in the isolation of houses, as we advanced in the isolation of Putin, using the national industry, supporting production and supply? Basically, there are some interesting things here, but when does dinner come? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u245	For an intervention, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs, Antonio Mendonça Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u246	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, whose speech I heard carefully, began by highlighting two points, the first saying that the measures should already be on the ground and then supporting the position that the PSD package was better because it was more targeted to the poorest. Regardless of what you might think about the package of measures presented by the PSD, I just want to say to you the following: we are not now starting to introduce measures to combat inflation. In fact, we have already introduced them and we have paid twice as much two benefits of 60 € each to the poorest, exactly to mitigate the effects of inflation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u247	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u248	I therefore believe that the seriousness and serenity of the debate also require that, when these considerations are made on this plan, they should not forget that we have a history and that history does not begin now. This also allows me to talk about the disregard with which the honourable Member, in fact, has this in common with Mr Rui Rocha, referring to the decrease in the rate of electricity VAT from 13 % to 6 %. That measure is not now, Mrs Deputies. This measure, of a structural nature and for which its bank voted against, since 2020 allows large families with consumptions up to 150 kWh and, in general, all families with consumptions up to 100 kWh — therefore, to more than 50 % of consumption and to 87 % of consumers — currently have a 13 % rate on the first plot and now have a 6 % rate. Eventually, the honourable Member could be careless about the history of the measures that exist, but I think it is important to say in the debate — and I say - with all respect — that what we announced was 13 % down to 6 %, a measure that already exists structurally but that now I repeat, the rate is 6 % down. Allow me, Mr Rui Rocha, that you may need — and I would ask you to help me, if I am wrong — what I thought the Liberal Initiative refers to energy VAT. We started a negotiation with the European Commission in March, which also had an express request to lower the VAT on fuels at the rate of 13 %. Mr President, if this is what you are referring to, I should just like to make it clear that the directive, even as it came into force on 5 April, does not under any circumstances allow the VAT on fuels to be at a reduced rate.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u249	What about light and gas? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u250	Mr President, what the Government has asked for and announced in March — and what the honourable Members have said. Members call it a mistake, and I think there is a misunderstanding on your part — it was the fall in fuel VAT, but the new directive does not allow a reduced rate.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u251	What about light and gas? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u252	But, Mr President, having failed to achieve this reduced rate, we have reduced the ISP equivalent to have a reduced rate.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u253	What about electricity and gas? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u254	As far as electricity VAT is concerned, here is where we have to request authorisation from the VAT Committee in 2020, we have applied for it, and now under the directive we have fallen to 6 %, which is a measure of greater importance for several consumers.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u255	That was in April, we're in September!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u256	Mr President, I would also like to recall what the Government has repeatedly said to the parliamentary board of the Liberal Initiative, and I say it sincerely: it is not just the taxes that are the answer to the problems of life.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u257	You abstained from the presence of the Minister of Economics here!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u258	Mr President, we had the opportunity to take a very significant set of measures on the electricity market which allowed prices in Portugal not to have had the same behaviour as they had in other markets, particularly in Spain. When we had to act with regard to the gas market — there is a good example — the government has put between the two possibilities at its disposal and the policy it has just adopted has been more favourable to taxpayers than to the one that would happen from a simple tax drop. The simple tax drop, Mr, let me tell you, is just a lazy exercise of answer to the questions, because not always the tax drop is the best solution to a particular problem. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that these clarifications are required, because, regardless of political differences, it is not worth disqualifying the debate, yes, it is worth clarifying it with serenity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u259	For an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State for Social Security, Gabriel Bastos.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u260	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I am not going to postpone this speech, because I believe that in my previous speech I have been able to sufficiently clarify the issue of pensions. However, I would like to stress and reiterate once again that it is not about misleading the Portuguese and that there is no trick or any other expression they have used in this Chamber. Madam Member, as Mr Minister mentioned in the initial intervention, there were cuts when, in the past, pensioners agreed and realized that they had less than two months of pensions. What will exist in January 2023 is the biggest increase in pensions in recent decades since Portugal entered the euro. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This package, with what has already been mentioned here and with what it represents, is even the largest return of income in our country, covering 8 million beneficiaries. I will end by taking this opportunity to recognize the enormous additional effort this whole operation entails, not only for the services of tax administration but also for those of social security. Once again, these services meet the challenge. They demonstrated it during the pandemic and will demonstrate it now. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u261	For an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State for Housing, Marina Gonçalves.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u262	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Filipe Melo said here that the Arrival was the only party that pointed the finger to the government, that the Arrival was the only party that told the truth and spoke about what measures and what the Government does, but I do not remember that, when it talked about housing issues, it referred to the measures that the Government has in this package to support the balance of the relationship between landlords and landlords. Nor do I remember — and indeed this has been common to this debate — that this package of inflation-response measures is a complement to that which is a strengthening programme, particularly in the area of housing. That is why I think it is important, when we do this debate, not to lose sight of the fact that what is being done is a complement to the Government's programme on public investment in various areas, such as housing. In the case of housing, we know what is the scenario and the diagnosis of the housing market situation, Mr Deputies, and that is why we have in place a set of measures now also reinforced in this package to combat inflation. So when you want to tell the truth, point your finger and say what the government is doing, I remember that, beyond this set of measures, there is a whole set of other measures that we are promoting to strengthen the right to housing, to strengthen public housing. in this particular case, we also have a set of measures that guarantee some savings to families and the balance of their monthly life, as to the incomes that will be practised, without questioning the landlords. We will safeguard families so that they do not have an impact in accordance with the increase in inflation, but that they have a savings in relation to what would be the automatic effect of law enforcement, by a decision taken by this government for which you have pointed your finger. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u263	For an intervention, Mr President-in-Office of the Environment and Energy States has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u264	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mrs Mariana Mortágua, when in my first speech I spoke of some fetishic obsession with certain words, her intervention was the perfect example of this. The honourable Member continues to talk about the windfall tax without realizing that the measures taken by the Government, whether in electricity or in gas, constitute that.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u265	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u266	The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen are so blind, they're so blind...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u267	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u268	... with the expression windfall tax that have lost the ability to look into reality and realize what is an excessive gain, which is a measure that reduces excessive gains for the benefit of consumers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[BE's protests.]] Madam Member, the measures are being taken to defend Portuguese families! In electricity, the Iberian mechanism limited the excessive gains of all technologies,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u269	Of all?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u270	...and directed those excessive gains...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u271	Four times more!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u272	...to lower the power account. In natural gas, Mrs Deputy, when we allow the return of 99, 7 % of natural gas consumers to the regulated rate, what we are doing is to force the company that holds the take or pay contracts and can sell them today on the free market at the price that well understands to sell that gas at 99, 7 % of the Portuguese consumers at prices set by ERISE ( Energy Services Regulatory Entity ). Mrs Deputy, pay attention to what I said, because these two measures should deserve the applause of the Left Block. But because of your obsessive fixation with an expression, they have lost the ability to evaluate policies for their merits and thus to realize the beneficial effects they have for Portuguese consumers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On what was said by the honourable Member of the European Union, well, the honourable Member is asking questions and you are replying with lies! Open... But I repeat the question: has the honourable Member already looked at some bill of electricity from a Spanish family and compared it with an invoice from a Portuguese family? I suggest you do it, and quickly, not to repeat what you have said here.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u273	What about the gas? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u274	Mr President, I am not going to address the same adjectives, but what you have said is purely and simply roundly false. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u275	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to the closing stage of the debate. To that end, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, Deputy Minister for Parliamentary Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u276	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Thank you very much for the debate here. I think it is worth stressing the context in which we find ourselves, which is the context of a war that none of us imagined could be possible in the European space, which is the context of an inflation that was not even expected to become the greatest possible...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u277	We warned in 2021, as inflation began to rise!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u278	You don't have a crystal ball to imagine that this would be the highest inflation rate in the last 30 years.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u279	We warned in 2021! We warned you!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u280	And not ignoring this, it is also important not to ignore that, over the past few years, we have all been surprised with huge changes in our lives, and so it was with the pandemic. It was because of a policy that we have been following since 2015 that we have been able to respond to the pandemic with a strong social state, which has not increased unemployment, on the contrary, has lowered it, which has kept people's income, which has responded to the various services. That's how we answered. Having come to this crisis that we are living with and which we are facing, with the inflation which, following the pandemic, had already shown signs of increase in October 2021 — and which, with the war, since 24 February 2022, has increased exponentially — the Portuguese Government has not been stopped. It is good to remember here, contrary to what has been said during this afternoon, the result of these last seven years of governance: there are more people employed; there is a low unemployment rate; there is a national minimum wage that has increased successively; there are pensions that have been increased and increased every year; wages have increased; career progressions have been frozen; the social pass for public transport has become cheaper. This is part of a coherent, supportive and robust response to people's problems. The measures we have presented this week are in addition to a set of significant measures to increase income and that meet people's needs with solidarity. The fight against rising cost of living, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it must be done in the light of the reality of the country, the reality of our accounts and what it is possible to do at every moment. When they tell me that, at the moment, € 125 is little, I would draw attention to the following: if we were under the care of a PSD government today, we would have cuts. And, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, I respect very much your crocodile tears, but the truth is that Mrs Deputy was sitting when you cut your pensions and when you cut your salaries. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That said, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I give a simple example: a couple with two children will receive, in October, to help mitigate the effects of the cost of living increases, € 350. These € 350 must be added to income, which will have a ceiling and therefore does not rise more than 2 %, the pass of the Caris or CP that will not increase, the bill of electricity or the bill of gas that will be lower. They are absolutely essential measures that enable us to respond to the urgency of the moment. I heard Mr PSD, at the previous point, saying that « the government has abandoned ». Are you really sure this is leaving the Portuguese, Mr. Deputies? Oh, my God! It is that leaving the Portuguese was what happened, when they impoverished the Portuguese, when they cut them without warning, when they promised the illusion that they would never cut subsidies and cut them.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u281	Patriotic!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u282	I want to leave here, at the end of this debate, a word of confidence, because the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen are masters in the illusion that the devil is coming, and he never came. [[PSD and IL rice.]] It was Mrs Mónica Quintela who said in April this year that it was good for the employees to have left without one, without two, without three salaries, to see how they learned. This is not the position of this government. That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Members, pensioners, in the face of increasing the difficulty of living, in addition to the extraordinary increases that we have successively given them over these years, have, this year, half the pension paid already in October, which does not exclude the increase of the pension in 2023. Reiter, ladies and gentlemen. Members: let us not do a guess exercise; let us do a reality exercise, knowing that in 2024 the government will be here, as always, to respond with responsibility, to respond with solidarity, but above all to be aware that the problems are complex. contrary to what all the opposition here presented today, the solutions are not simple or simplistic, they have to be based on what is the sustainability of our country and the ability to develop and combat inequalities, responding with solidarity to all Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u283	For the closing intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u284	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In good time this debate was held because, in fact, it clarifys, before the country, which side is each one, the background options, the class options of each party, in response to the serious situation we live on.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u285	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u286	Without surprise, there is the PS, subservient to economic interests, without wanting to "step the rocks" to the most powerful. Not by chance, it is curious to note that the Government is not responding to the millionaire profits accumulated in this period. He does not speak the government, but he does speak the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u287	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u288	And the PS is not alone in this silence, it is accompanied by the PSD, the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival in subordination to economic and multinational groups and in the rejection of solutions that question their profits.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u289	They are "meal of the same sack"!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u290	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have the country side by side with brutal inflation, we have a sharp loss of purchasing power, problems in health and education, among others. at the same time, there is an extraordinary accumulation of profits. And « so does Portugal, some go well, others go wrong», it is fair to say.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u291	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u292	A few go very, very well and the majority — workers, reformed, MPME, farmers and fishermen — is bad, very bad.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u293	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u294	How, then, is it explained that, in recent years, particularly in recent months, when the Portuguese people are experiencing the greatest difficulties, we are seeing profits accumulate to billions, in some cases beating records? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u295	Pingo Doce? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u296	How is it explained that as invoices increase for families and businesses, while the difficulty in paying them increases, Galp and EDP (Energy of Portugal) have hundreds of millions of profits? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u297	Is it a Continent? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u298	The same in the large distribution, in the food flap, for example.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u299	Sonae? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u300	As the prices of essential goods are increasing, small producers get worse, but then we look at the profits of Sonae, Jerome Martins,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u301	...and what we see are absolutely impressive profits? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u302	And the VAT of the Front Party! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u303	The same could be said of the bank or the telecommunications sector. The explanation, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is one and there is no other: it is called subservience! It is that these profit rates are the result of circumstances which the Government does not have the courage to change: speculation, war and sanctions, low wages and exploitation. What explains the obscene accumulation of wealth and the increase in inequalities, in a context like this, is a policy that does not face speculation and that does not combat low wages and reforms and exploitation. The measures announced by the Government not only do not recover as they effectively prolong the loss of purchasing power. When the government opts for a benefit for all workers, which does not cover half of the lost value of inflation, what it is really doing is to submit itself to the great patronage, by not operating a general increase of the absolutely urgent wages.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u304	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u305	And what he does is, in practice, make the Portuguese State pay the profits of these groups and compensate for the low wages they perform. He had done something similar at the time of the increase in the national minimum wage.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u306	And the VAT of the Front Party! Is that what you're talking about? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u307	When the government announces this fraud of pensions, it is refusing a real increase, because pensioners and pensioners will not have the increase that is due them legally in 2023, and hence onwards. It will continue the loss of purchasing power. On prices and their speculative increase, when the government opts only for appreciable tax measures, without combining them with maximum prices and profit margins, what it is saying is that families, MPMEs can be sacrificed, the State's own ability to respond to the reinforcement of the SNS or the public school, but cannot be interfered with obscene profits.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u308	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u309	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the measures announced by the Government are insufficient and do not give the necessary answer. Integrated and joint measures are needed to achieve this already. We must have the courage to face the interests of multinationals and economic groups. This is what is required: courage to value purchasing power, a necessary condition to respond to the current situation, with the overall increase of wages, from the immediate increase of the national minimum wage to the 800 € and 850 € in January, with the actual increase of pensions and reforms. It takes courage to combat the increase in prices, with the fixing and fixing of maximum prices for essential goods, such as electricity and gas, fuels and food, with the universal application of 6 % VAT in electricity and gas, with the definitive recognition of the rates regulated in electricity and the same conditions in gas as well. It takes courage to fulfill social rights, to face those who gain the destruction of public services, such as health or even in public school.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u310	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u311	In the housing, it matters the definition of a maximum ceiling, never greater than the value of 2022, in the update of incomes, by 0, 43 %, and it is necessary to protect families from mortgages and evictions. Mrs. Members, there are all the conditions to move forward with these solutions, from then on if there is taxation of the profits of the major economic groups,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u312	Again? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u313	... profits of whom no one wanted to talk, but which were accumulated at the expense of the loss of purchasing power and which are needed for public services, national production and social policies. Mrs. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, they cannot always be the same ones to pay, always the same ones to be sacrificed.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u314	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u315	Between the profits and the lives of the people are needed other options, you have to choose the people and the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u316	At the conclusion of this current debate, the Bureau takes advantage of saying goodbye to the Members. Members of the Government. We will move on to the next item on our agenda, which is on the vote. Before that, I give the floor to the Secretary of Bureau Maria da Luz Rosinha who has information to give. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u317	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I inform you that you have entered the Bureau, and it has been admitted, draft resolution No 204 / XV / 1. a ( PAR) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Angola. I would also like to inform you of the need for this plenary to vote on a number of opinions from 14. the Commission. Thus, the request of the Administrative and Prosecutor's Office of Leiria, Case No 1319 / 16.4BELRA, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Isura Morais ( PSD ) to make a written statement within the framework of the said cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u318	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u319	Madam President, may I apologize for using the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u320	Mr President, when we are voting, it is not possible to interrupt. We must therefore continue to vote on the Transparency Committee right now.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u321	Madam President, I am sorry, but I did not understand clearly what we were voting on. The Secretary spoke of a draft resolution and opinions, but I did not understand what was being voted on and so I asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u322	Mr President, we were voting on what had just been read by the Secretary of the Bureau, which was the opinion to authorize Mrs Isura Morais to give a written statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u323	Thank you, Madam President, and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u324	Madam Secretary, please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u325	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, the request of the Central Court of Criminal Instruction of Lisbon — Judge 7, Inquiry No. 746 / 22.2JGLSB, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr. Adam Silva ( PSD ) to make a written statement as a witness within the framework of those cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u326	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] You would like to continue, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u327	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, in accordance with the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Braga, Judge of General Competition of Póvoa de Lannoso, Case No 4557 / 20.1T9BRG, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion in order to authorize Mrs Maria Gabriela Fonseca ( PSD ) to testify in person as a witness within the scope of the said cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-07.u328	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We are now voting on draft resolution No 194 / XV / 1. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to California. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No 204 / XV / 1. a ( PAR) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Angola. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CH, PCP and L and against IL and BE and the abstention from the NAP.]] After the vote, but not yet at our sitting, I recall that the next plenary meeting is held on 14 September, Wednesday, for 15 hours, on the agenda: political statements; joint appraisal of the Parliamentary Inquiry No 2 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Possible Parliamentary Inquiry Commission on the credibility of the Annual Internal Security Reports submitted by the Government to the Assembly of the Republic and draft resolution No 154 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Possible Parliamentary Investigation Commission to clarify the causes of mortality for the years 2020 and 2021 ; and assessment of the Proposal for Law No 28 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Restructuring the Single Contact Point for International Police Cooperation. At the end of our meeting, I wish everyone a good evening and evening. Thank you very much. The meeting is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 18 minutes.]]
