ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We already have quorum and all parliamentary groups are present, so we will start our session. [[It was 10 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the galleries to the public. I also ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President, draft resolution No 276 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 2. the Commission, and Bills Nos 359 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which drops to 1. the Commission, in connection with 8. the Commission, 361 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission, and 362 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u3	Our agenda includes, in addition to the statutory votes, a single point on Question No 3 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — On successive cases of alleged incompatibilities and conflicts of interest involving several Executive Ministers. To open the debate on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, I give the floor to Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's debate, in this House of the Republic, results from a need and a stupefaction — the need to draw attention to and responsibility for a government that wanted to escape its responsibility in multiple cases, since they began to be reported; the stupefying to see the main opposition parties fleeing this subject as the devil flees the cross, which is somewhat incomprehensible. at a time when, from each door we open another incompatibility in the government, it becomes very unclear, understandable and understandable because some parties insist on looking to the side, because it is that some parties insist on not seeing any incompatibility or feeling need to change the law or call to responsibility those who clearly prevariate. The situation is particularly incomprehensible to the right. The Liberal Initiative said nothing about incompatibilities in government. We were amazed to see a member of the Liberal Initiative being on the side of Pedro Nuno Santos on his incompatibility situation. [[Congrats from the CH.]] If it were not a tragedy to Portuguese, it would be very strange at least to see a right-wing party covering the government in such a strange area as this one. But as for the Liberal Initiative, we know that the issue of incompatibilities is not even to bring to Parliament. PSD hasn't gone any further. He says his leader is not the right time to hold this debate and that the debate should not be in Parliament, but with the judicial authorities.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u5	Nobody said that!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u6	What is strange is that the President of the Republic, former leader of the PSD itself, has come to say that it must be Parliament doing and clarifying legislation. Of course, the Socialist Party has always done what it does: "there are interpretative doubts in this legislation, there are doubts that must be clarified." Let the PS do so, we even understand; that the opposition parties go after him, that we can no longer understand; that the President of the Republic covers this, we cannot understand very well either. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It is available to amend the legislation in force, in fact we have made this clear to the President of the Republic since the first hour, and for that reason we have already tabled a legislative amendment in that regard. But the debate we have here today is not about the legislative amendment, it is about the clarity that already exists in the law and about the successive cases which point to this government, which do not leave room for doubt. The Ministers involved, for the most part, violated the law of the Republic which is in force and must be dismissed from their duties. [[Congrats from the CH.]] So let's go, Mr President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, make a summary of this story. Pedro Nuno Santos is Minister for Infrastructure and Housing. It has 1 % of a company whose father owns 44 %. Since 2008 22 contracts have been concluded with the State, with a value which I wanted to make clear to this Parliament : 1 109 740, 05 €. We are talking about an extraordinarily high value and a situation in which a ruler, through the Government to which he belongs, paid to himself and to the company that has such a value.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u7	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u8	Minister Ana Abrunhosa was President of the CCDR-Centre (regional coordination and development committee) and, as President of the CCDR, financed the husband himself, which holds 40 % of the company financed.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u9	Only serious people!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u10	The Minister of Health, Manuel Pizarro, a few days ago, the day he was taking possession, was a partner-manager of a company in the field of health. Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we can have many interpretations of the law and vary in its discussion, but I would like any parliament in Europe to hear this: the Minister of Health, the day he took possession, was a partner-manager of a company in the field of health!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u11	How is that possible? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u12	Not even creatively could do one thing like that. This is not the trouble of the legislation, but the embarrassment of the PS in which it wants to cover the country for how many years ago I don't know! [[Congrats from the CH.]] The Minister of Health, however, had a more humble approach because, unlike many in this House, he came to say that he was well aware of the situation of incompatibility. unlike others, who have tried to take refuge in good faith and in the opinions which, curiously predate the current law, in a single case in which an opinion before the law wants to apply for a period after the law, certainly in one of those extremely creative interpretations that we produce in law, Minister Manuel Pizarro had a different approach, saying "I am aware of my incompatibilities". What we have today, therefore, Mr President and Mr. Members, it is a role of situations which do not dignify the Republic and which, above all, violate the law in a clear and expressive manner. Science Minister Elvira Fortunato said he had already transmitted his 16 % share in the company, but until today no one knows where that communication is, nor when that quota has been transmitted. The case of the Secretary of State for Fisheries is particularly gratifying, and I would like to draw the attention of this House to this: the Secretary of State is married to a person who holds 100 % of a company who has entered into a direct adjustment contract with the City Council of Leiria, exactly in the area of nature. The Secretary of State for Fisheries is married to someone who owns 100 % of a company linked to this area and has made a contract by direct adjustment with the municipality of Leiria — perhaps also socialist —, however, the City Council of Leiria came two weeks ago to cancel it due to suspicions of irregularities.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u13	Fishing and livestock really are almost the same thing!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u14	The City Hall of Leiria did the work that Parliament could not do, coming forward and saying: "This may be illegal, we do not want to be involved in this. While many in this House looked to the side, while many were whispering, while many said "this is not illegal, we have everything right, it is all right," the City Council of Leiria did what was right, i.e. cancelled this contract and returned it to the authorities. That's what we should do today. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the law is clear in these cases. Neither the governors nor their families holding 10 % higher can do business with the State. We can turn this law around, but it has a clear and defined objective: to prevent those who rule here to rule themselves and assign money to themselves or their families, rather than to rule the State. The law is clear and leaves no room for doubt in this matter. The bad service we provide to the country is to tell the Portuguese that we are facing a major legislative confusion and that we will have to clarify. This is doing the Socialist Party game, and I hope that today the PSD and the Liberal Initiative do not play the Socialist Party game. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u15	The President of the Republic has decided to come again to the game. Unfortunately, not to call on the Government to shoulder its responsibility, but to give it cover and say that we are faced with a great legislative embarrassment and that Parliament needs to take action. Mr President, we are faced with a legislative turmoil and, in many of your variants and categorizations, these laws are not clear. But the law is clear in one thing: no ruler or family member who holds more than 10 % of a company can do business with the State; no ruler can do business with himself; therefore those who represent the State cannot negotiate with you. Whatever goes around this, whatever it is to look at the side, whatever it is to find a minimum of interpretative doubt, has a name that I wanted to make clear in this Parliament. It's called law fraud and shame on the Portuguese! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. Minister, at the time we are talking here, many Portuguese ask themselves: what will the government do about this? We're used to looking to the side and seeing if time passes, if there's another case that can take hold of this. The cases in the cover of the paper do not favor or help what we want, but we will have time to talk about it in this Parliament. What is at stake today is what the Government is going to do to correct these cases, Mrs Minister. Are you, or are you not, calling these ministers to responsibility? I address especially Mr Eurico Brillante Dias, Parliamentary Leader of the Socialist Party: is the Socialist Party willing to change this law or not? Is the Socialist Party available, or is it not, to clarify what everyone, or is it almost all, the Portuguese on public affairs and on State transparency?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u16	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u17	Are the PS, PSD, the Liberal Initiative, the Left Block and the PCP willing to change a law that, by the way, no longer serves to ensure the transparency of the State? The PS has an absolute majority in this House, but this absolute majority cannot be absolute prepotence and, while the cases happen, one after another, every day we open the newspaper we are ashamed more. Every day we hear a minister in this house saying that he had good faith, but that he will come out if the court condemns him, it is another day that shames all Portuguese. Mrs. Minister, an absolute majority cannot be used with pre-eminence to shame Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u18	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u19	And I tell you honestly, because I feel that this is our duty in front of the Republic, that every day we get more ashamed. This is no longer a government, Mrs Minister, this is a boat that falls a little bit more each day, opening a door and leaving more cases that embarrass us. It is a boat that is sinking and, unfortunately, sinking Portugal. We'll still be in time to correct this shame. [[On your feet, applause from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u20	To open the debate on the part of the Government, I call on Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Democracy defends itself every day by words, by acts and therefore also by respect for its institutions. This, which is my House for so many years, is an institution which, you know, deeply respects and is with this consideration that the Government is here today, as it will be every time it is necessary. I shall present myself in this debate with serenity, even though I understand that I will have little to explain to the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen of arrive. There is, in cases that bring us here today, no violation of the law. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] I repeat, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is no violation of the law in cases that bring us here. The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, with this appeal to the Government, they demonstrate once again that their battle is not for transparency or democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u22	It's yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u23	It is a struggle for misinformation, noise, and it seeks to corrode democratic institutions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What are you guys doing? Members of the European Parliament intend to do this by launching an anathema on all democratic institutions. They cast distrust on the government. They cast distrust on the Assembly of the Republic where they sit.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u24	It's not us, it's the news!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u25	They cast distrust on the Attorney General's Office of the Republic. They cast mistrust on the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u26	And it's enough? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u27	They cast mistrust on the democratic rule of law.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u28	Demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u29	Deep down, deep down, what you want is really a new regime. He urged us to ignore the growing democracy and the work of the last almost 50 years for more transparency, for more rigour.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u30	That's misinformation!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u31	He wants to make a table of the work of this House, one of the pillars of the democratic rule of law. The ironic thing about all this propaganda exercise in the Reach is that the information it manipulates is proof that the institutions work, that there is transparency and that the information is available. This is discussed because, under the law, all declarations of income, wealth, interests, incompatibilities and impediments, as well as the registration of interests, are handed over to the Constitutional Court and are published on the Internet and available to all, including journalists. Underlining : they are available to everyone and to everyone's access. This is how transparency is built up. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the same way, all public contracts are published online and accessible to anyone you want, with complete transparency. Opinions approved by the Attorney General's Office of the Republic ( PGR ) are also published, available and publicly accessible. All of this has allowed and allowed the citizens to be polled, it allows journalistic research by the media and, therefore, I would like to say again quietly: it is democracy that works. Let's be very clear. This scrutiny is only possible, ladies and gentlemen. Members, because all holders of political and high-level positions are subject to a tight mesh of rules of impediments and conflicts of interest. So that there will be no doubt, Mr. Members are subject to this obligation, let us remember, the President of the Republic, the President of the Assembly of the Republic, the Prime Minister, all Members of the Assembly of the Republic, all members of the Government, all judges, all judges of the Public Ministry, all representatives of the Republic in the Autonomous Regions, all members of the Government own of the Autonomous Regions, all Members of the European Parliament, all members of the executive bodies of the local authority (camera presidents, councillors, joint presidents ), all members of the executive bodies of the metropolitan areas and inter-municipal entities, all public managers and all members of the governing bodies of public institutions. That is how democracy is built. That is how more transparency is built up. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, under the regime of the exercise of political office holders, all those in these positions are subject to limitations resulting from the functions performed in the three years prior to the taking up of office, during the full term of office and during the three years after the end of their duties. in this context, in the name of transparency, having been questioned as to the interpretation of Law No 64 / 93, the Government decided to request an opinion from the Advisory Council of the Attorney-General of the Republic, which followed the Government's reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u32	But it's earlier!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u33	Listen to me, Mr. Deputy, you'll see.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u34	Is that a threat?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u35	No one here threatens anyone, we argue. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would also like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this opinion is keeping up-to-date. Despite having been issued under Law No 64 / 93, the law in force maintains the legal solutions in the light of which the opinion was issued. The Government complies with the law and complies with it with comfort, supported by the views of the Attorney-General of the Republic. That is how you should act who, like the government, respects the institutions. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it was in this House, in the Assembly of the Republic, that the legislative procedure of Law No 52 / 2019, which approved the legal regime of the exercise of functions by holders of political positions and high public positions. This process, ladies and gentlemen. Members were widely involved: the opinions of the various entities and members of civil society were taken into account, several entities were heard, were discussed in plenary and in the specialty. At the conclusion of the discussion, the diploma was approved in this House by the overwhelming majority of Mr. Members, only with the vote against the CDS-PP. I repeat that let us remember what we are talking about: the diploma was approved in this House by the overwhelming majority of parliamentary groups. All of this demonstrates, once again, the regular functioning of the institutions and the day-to-day robustness of democracy that the Arrival insists on denying. This is why the Government rejects the behaviour of the Arrival, which throws the usual and daily suspicion cloak on democratic institutions in order, after all, to generate soundbits. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would therefore like to appeal to you here: that this debate serves to enhance the principles of the democratic rule of law in which our Republic is based, values that the Government does not abdicate today, that it has not abdicated in the past and that it will not abdicate in the future. The principle of separation of powers, democratic legality and transparency are essential for the normal functioning of democracy that we will not tire of defending today and always. contrary to what you are. Ladies and gentlemen here want to get through, the institutions really work. There we will all be, as we wish, to improve them, but to feed this climate of suspicion over everything and above all it is to put sand on the gear of democratic institutions; it is not to defend them and not to respect the political function that we all exercise. Democracy, as we know it, for which we will always fight, is a mature democracy, in which each institution occupies its place, in a plural system. Each performs its function, and it is up to each of them to ensure the full and are the functioning of the rest. I trust and know that I have always trusted this Parliament as a guardian of democracy and institutions. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is no democracy without a strong, supervisory and democratic parliament. There is not even democracy without politicians. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u36	The Minister has a request for clarification. Mr André Ventura, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor to make it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u37	Mr President, Madam Minister, it was exciting to hear your words about democracy and how we all live much better today, how our regime was as good, as outside what we were supposed to be defending democracy and with our hearts to overflow with joy we all go out together and sing alleluias, but that is not really the case. In fact, we have a law, passed by Parliament — which was not yet in Parliament — which says that I will tell you: 'Political or high-level public office holders of national law, by themselves or in the companies in which they perform management functions, and companies owned by themselves by more than 10 % of their capital, (...) may not: (...) participate in public procurement procedures' or 'interview as consultant, specialist' in a number of areas. I do not know, Mr President, what is the question of this? Where's the doubt about this? The law also states that the scheme of paragraphs 2 and 4, which I referred to, applies to spouses who are not separated from persons and goods or to persons with whom they live in de facto union to public procurement procedures. So what I'm asking today and what I'm sure thousands of Portuguese are asking at home is: but what is the question? What's the question? If the law is here and it's so clear! If it was raised to 1000 %, it was the same and we all saw the same thing. Madam Minister, this conversation of fighting together, which today we have a better regime, that we give our hands, that we are for transparency, is not worth anything when we open the pages of the newspapers every day and we see another minister in a situation of incompatibility. It's not worth anything! It's zero. Zero! [[Congrats from the CH.]] I know that, for the Socialist Party, what it is worth to come up with this conversation always: « Here comes Fascism, you don’t go in this conversation! The Assembly is all moved by fascism: « Woe to the fascists who are there! Only we are not here just to demand from the PS what the Minister said at the end: "There is no democracy without a supervisory parliament. » So, what the hell, wake up! We must monitor the Socialist Party and the Government! That's what we're doing here! [[Congrats from the CH.]] By the way, Madam Minister, I believe that the opinion you have referred to says nothing about a minister being a partner-manager in your area. I read it and it's not there. Maybe Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves can find out something that's not there... but I read it and it's not there! I want you to tell the Portuguese this: how is it that a minister who, when he takes possession, is a company's partner-manager in the area of health may not be incompatibility? How? objectively, I'd like to understand how. What do you think? Is it an opinion that does not yet exist, but that is already being written in the office of the Socialist Party? What do you think? What's the reason? What's the rule for people out there not to say that this is all the same thing and we're just here today trying to cover up the government even more? It is up to us, Mrs. Minister, to monitor us. As I said, well, there is no strong government without an opposition that controls it. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u38	In reply, I have the floor of the Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr André Ventura, yes, we will always have a disagreement. I will always be here to defend democratic institutions, Parliament and Parliament as the guardian of government action. All democracy is built on the confidence that we should have in the institutions and not systematically launch a climate of suspicion because the institutions decide something with which Mr. Ladies and gentlemen do not agree. It can't be, sir! First of all, I can say that you guys are. Ministers follow the law. Secondly, I can say that the honourable Member, who is a jurist—and they say until he is a good jurist— has to read the opinions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u40	But I've read it several times!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u41	I don't think you've read them. I have all the joy—without allelujai, but with joy—to deliver the opinions to you so that you can read and see that you refer to the cases which you have referred to and therefore to those public tenders which have been opened and processed to other organs of the State. Mr. Member, you may not want to read,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u42	But I've read it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u43	...but I will always be here and only to answer in the name of what I think is the behavior that any politician, of all the benches, all the gentlemen. Members, all members of the government, must respect the institutions and how they operate. So I'm telling you again that I'm not an enterprising person, but I'm going to be a strong advocate of law enforcement, because that's what leads to trust in institutions. That is what the Government has done, has complied with the law, endorsed in its two opinions, thus ensuring the regular functioning of the institutions. I don't know what else I can tell you, if I don't offer Mr the opinions, so I don't have so much doubt. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u44	We will now enter the stage of the debate. For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin with something that I think we all agree with in this House. We live in a rule of law and, in a rule of law, if there is a law, the law is complied with. I'm not a lawyer, but, as the jurists say, hard lex, sed lex. This does not mean that you agree to a specific law or to particular rules within that law. That's not what's at stake. It means that we do not confuse political evaluation, especially ethical safeguard considerations in the exercise of the functions of some rulers, with the application of the existing law. It means that, in a rule of law, laws are to comply and enforce. Therefore, in the face of specific situations, the appropriate, judicial and judicial entities that act, that each one fulfils his role. That is also why, at the time of the present and the various cases under discussion, we are concerned about something and we are left with a number of questions, namely the already famous opinion requested by the Office of the Attorney-General's Office of the Republic — which does not seem to have been well read at the time it was issued and even today — a request signed on behalf of the Prime Minister, for the time being President of the Assembly of the Republic, who at the time was also author of the Code of Conduct of the previous Government, and to be sent, of course, to the Prime Minister, Mr António Costa. Let us begin by observing the following: in this opinion it is clear that rather than going to the door of the Consulting Council of the Attorney-General of the Republic, they should soon have been knocking at the door of the Ratton Palace. This is clear. The considerations of the opinion refer to the 1993 law, but some also refer to the 2019 law at the time already adopted and which was prepared to enter into force. And that is why the opinion, on the 1993 law, also says that the 2019 law, which would enter into force, kept the same problems raised and analyzed.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u46	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u47	However, what the opinion says, at some point, if I am not mistaken, in its Chapter 4.5, is the following: « Moreover, the present unconstitutionality of its literal interpretation, by reference to the principle of proportionality, has never been subjected to an actual examination of the Constitutional Court (... ) » — therefore, as I said, the Advisory Council is saying ‘the wrong door, because they have not been knocked at the door of the Constitutional Court’ — ', '(...) ignoring whether this omission was the result of an effective application in accordance with its literal meaning(...)’ — starts here the doubt as to why they did not want to analyze the law, as it says — (...) or rather, if they were due to their generalized disregard, by obvious disproportionateness of solution, which would derive exclusively from its literality. Do not keep on seeking. ” Well, I am not a lawyer and I make an additional effort to understand this legal language, but what is said in this opinion, as I said at the outset, is "why are they asking us and not going to the Constitutional Court? Do not keep on seeking. ” Therefore, since 2019 that Mr. Prime Minister, who is the only in the Government that can, with the Constitutional Court, give rise to the successive supervision of constitutionality, does not go to the Constitutional Court to clarify all these issues.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u48	Well observed!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u49	Why? Why, for three years — this opinion was put in Mr. Prime Minister's office for him to read, therefore, or did he not read or explain to him what was written there — the cases that have jumped as mushrooms were being cooked in a mother's bath? Or, even recalling the title of a film and taking the most media case of recent times, who in the government has framed Pedro Nuno Santos? Who was it? Because there is an opinion to say « they will knock at the door of the Constitutional Court so that this will be all clear, because you have doubts about the constitutionality of the law», and no one has been. And we are in this debate precisely because of that. It's all very strange. Mr President, returning to the cases, not just those of now, the trend has always been for every time there is one case to restrict more, tighten more the mesh and run over the law. From a review, in review, in review, here is a huge confusion, as in recent weeks we have seen experienced Members, as is the case with Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, not only an experienced Member, but even considered the father of this law, to recognize a wrongful law, but also inexperienced Members, who even confuse, on the occasion of the case of Minister Manuel Pizarro, the competences of 14. the Commission of this House, and then they also want to rush to review the law, which we think is a mistake. We believe that there must be a new, serene process, fulfilling the principles of transparency, rights, freedoms and guarantees of people and their personal activity, professional, business and, perhaps, placing the point on the wrongful side of favor and not on the level of relations, because, as I said on the other day, in an appeal to the PSD, in addition to relatives, there are other cases, as the recent history of Portuguese policy well demonstrates, in which, in addition to the inheritances that appeared I do not know where and cases of friends, who would not be really friends, the problem was not in family relations. By returning to the entities, when will the Transparency Entity actually start working? Yesterday we questioned the Constitutional Court, on request, in this House, concerning the money that is entered in the State budget, because the money for this year is exactly the same as last year. It is in doubt whether things are being done or not and why the Transparency Entity, which should already work, is not, because, while it is not, the Portuguese continue with many doubts. Much more could I say, but I'm done, Mr President. Portugal needs even more transparency, which is something with which the PS has some difficulty in living. But if the Transparency Entity were to operate and if they were to go to the Constitutional Court, today this debate would probably not exist. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u50	The honourable Member has a request for clarification. To put it forward, Mrs Emília Cerqueira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u51	Mr President, Mr President, it is really important that this debate be held with serenity and that we will focus on what is essential, which is the dignity of democracy and the holders of political office. The PSD, as you know, does not embark on this media wave to mix and confuse everything. Each case is a case and the law must be applied. He referred to some points which are fundamental to us, namely the almost obsessive use of an opinion which expressly states that it does not apply to the next legislation, and therefore we will never forget this little detail.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u52	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u53	Then we see a new narrative which is that of the "legislative tarnished". This narrative should refer to all laws expressly repealed at the time of the adoption of Law No 52 / 2019, because, in fact, for the holders of political office, there is a single law in force, already updated, with all the amendments and the text duly consolidated. There are no several legal diplomas, there is one. Therefore, this narrative cannot continue and the PSD cannot allow the message that policy makers will try to create, in newspaper articles, that there are many doubts because it is not known which law applies. There is only one law—and it is important to say it—that it had as a great engine and mentor the Socialist Party, with an expressive vote, yes, of the whole Parliament, but in which the PSD, in the specialty, was opposed precisely to the confusion that could happen with number 3, which is what we are discussing here. What makes today, because the law has failed to do so, let us talk about changes in a hurry to, once again, go after populisms, which, in fact, are what lead to this debate that is being verified today. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u54	They mix everything and all and gather cases that nothing has to do with each other, so that they include the contracts of the family of the father of Minister Pedro Nuno Santos — the PSD, imagine, until you think this cannot happen on a matter of seriousness — although what is even in question is the last contract, under the current law. That is the fact that it is expressly reflected in the law. The PSD says from the outset: the law must function, the institutions should function, whether there is incompatibility with the Minister, subject to the consequences, which he admitted he would do. But our question is another: the Transparency Entity would have avoided all this. The truth is, she hasn't been out of paper since 2019. The PSD, year after year, makes this proposal. PSD, year after year, claims. The government says "yes, ma'am", but, in fact, then, it does nothing. So we count on the Liberal Initiative. I hope he's with us so he won't embark on any more populisms. Can we count on you? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u55	Mr Rodrigo Saraiva, from the IL, has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we agree that the law exists, whether it agrees or not. It is necessary to comply and, as a matter of fact, a sound process for new legislation is in place.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u57	You don't have lunch by yourself anymore.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u58	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u59	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members: One of the most remarkable news this morning happens following the economic situation that the country is experiencing. Tell us the cover of a newspaper that the number of people who have stolen in supermarkets to eat shot. However, Parliament will spend a whole morning without discussing this problem of general impoverishment. People are stealing tuna cans and milk to feed their children, but Parliament will spend a full morning discussing incompatibilities and will not link this concrete problem of the country's impoverishment.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u60	Demagogy! Demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u61	The supermarkets are placing alarms on basic food products — I call attention to the photographs that are circulating in the media and that are an icon of this reality, the cans of tuna with alarms — because people are stealing them for their children and for themselves, due to the impoverishment of the country. But during an entire morning, Parliament will try to replace itself with the Constitutional Court and the Public Prosecutor's Office in compliance with the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u62	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u63	This is the choice of those who proposed this debate, knowing that, as regards the supervision of the rulers, the law says it is the Constitutional Court and the Public Prosecutor's Office, at the Constitutional Court, which have the power to monitor and, if you understand it, to resign the members of the Government. Those who have marked this debate know that the law that is in force, has not disappeared, has not been placed in the drawer, there is not even a legal void; they know that Parliament cannot do anything about the members of the government because the law, voted by Parliament, says that it is the Constitutional Court and the Public Prosecutor's Office, with the Constitutional Court, that can do so. However, while the country has agreed with the image of an alarming tuna can so that those who need to feed their children do not steal it, we are discussing, for a full morning, what the government does, what Parliament cannot do and what we realize a parliamentary group would like to do, but there is no possibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u64	And what does the Left Block do?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u65	The responsibility for scheduling this debate lies with the parliamentary group that did so. So you have that responsibility. We are here to hold the debate. The way this debate takes place and the sequence of cases giving rise to it are the responsibility of the government. It is therefore the responsibility of the Government and the decisions taken by the Constitutional Court and the Public Prosecutor's Office. On this point, our position is clear and simple from the very first hour: we believe in a law that, for us, is clear, we voted in favour of it and we would vote-CL again. I repeat, we believe that the law is clear as it is and that it must be fulfilled, as we believe in it in all its aspects, that is, it is also dependent on organs that we respect and that we think they will fulfill their role, as is the case with the Constitutional Court and the Public Ministry. This does not mean that we believe that any decision by the Constitutional Court or the Public Prosecutor's Office is above criticism. It will not be in a democracy in which everyone has the freedom to have an opinion and to criticize what they want to criticize. It simply means that in the legal construction of this law there are powers, rights and duties that are properly distributed. When we voted, we voted in conscience, knowing all the consequences that come from it and believing that these were the best solutions to ensure the necessary transparency to a mature democracy and to the confidence that every citizen and every citizen in it deserves. We do not confuse supervision with juridicalism. We hope that there will be monitoring of all these and other cases that we do not know. We hope that there will be a review of the duty of transparency of all holders of political positions and high public positions, compliance with all incompatibilities regimes, compliance with the impediment regime. I insist on this point: for us, the law is clear and there are as critical those who carry out a populist campaign on these cases as those who consider that the law is not clear and that it is an incomprehensible legal entanglement. From that point of view, the letter that Mr. President of the Republic has sent to Parliament is not intelligible until something that the first judge of the nation can deliver to a sovereign body. To indicate a set of laws already repealed, which are not in force, only to legitimise the argument that there is a legal entanglement is not serious. But that is what the President of the Republic has done. in the same way, the Socialist Party and the Government cannot criticise a law in which they voted in favour, in which they were of the main agents for their construction and whose constitutionality they have never called into question in the past. More—I do not forget this—the government said it wanted to go beyond the law and therefore, beyond the legal compliance it was obliged by the decisions of the Assembly of the Republic, it still wanted to create a code of conduct. So on the charges of general populism, I believe that neither the Socialist Party nor the Government are out of these charges. It says the Socialist Party now that we may have gone too far. There was a populist wave and we rode it», and he makes the meaculpa on this matter. You can review your positions — everyone has that right — however, it is not because those who voted the law have problems of consciousness that it no longer has validity. From that point of view, the law exists and is to comply. on our part, I repeat what I said: the law is clear, we believe it, we believe it can be improved to be even more restrictive, as it was suggested in one of the opinions on Community funds - and we will present an initiative in this respect - but we do not believe that it should be used to remove specific responsibilities which are fully clarified in it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u66	For an intervention on behalf of the NAP, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u67	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The NAP comes to debate with the serenity that it has been the political force that has not only criticized and that, with its proposals, has been at the forefront of the progress made in the area of transparency in recent years. We have one of two ways: we can follow the path of attacking cases and homes that in no way enhance democracy; or we can seek solutions to a law that, despite being recent, in historical terms dates back to the 1990s and whose constitutional adequacy has never been called into question, as so far as it is.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u68	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u69	And we will not focus on a sterile discussion about whether the conduct of Caesar's woman, besides serious and legal, should be ethical. in this debate, yes, we want to talk about concrete proposals that aim to fill the so-called 'green areas' of the law and that lead, including, the Consultative Council of the Attorney-General of the Republic to speak in obscurity situations where the legal boundary lies in the taste of unpredictable contingencies. I would like to begin by stressing the importance, too, of making the Entity for Transparency out of role, and we will certainly have the opportunity to close the process of specialization in this State budget. Therefore, before this debate, the NAP introduced an initiative that avoids backlogs in the area of transparency and proposes the necessary clarifications to fill the gaps identified so far. We have identified at least three absolutely essential issues, and the first concerns the allocation of public subsidies, whether with national or European funds. Any allocation of funds shall correspond to the existence of a contract, so that the assumptions of the impediments provided for in the law can be applied, and neither the holder of the political office nor his spouse united in fact or undertaking by him shall benefit from such support. It is important to clarify and understand where the proposal goes, because, in order to apply to people separated in the event of divorce, we must not legislate in a hurry, under the penalty of being overrun by a regime that is also legal and has other figures, such as fraud or even corruption. With regard to the administrative act — and which often happens to European funds — this impediment no longer applies, in addition to being questionable from the moral point of view, this solution is inconsistent with other solutions already in force in the law, such as that which prohibits support for the three years after the discharge of office. It would make no sense to have more restrictive rules for someone when he comes out of office than during the exercise. The second gray zone we have identified has to do with the reference criterion applied to the impediment of spouses and de facto united in the context of public procurement. It is in question a literal interpretation that would lead a minister's spouse, for example, to be prevented from entering into a contract with a State service, even if there was no guardianship or the slightest possibility of influencing the procedure in question, at the same time as allowing the conclusion of contracts, by spouses, with personalized services of the State subject to strong protection of merit from the Government. The aim is to clarify and implement the General Law on Public Works, thus requiring that the influence that may or may not be exercised by the public office holder be directly prevented. Finally, the third gray zone: there is no transparency in cases where an apology has been requested. In order not to come to know later on, the tow of these media cases, whether or not that was requested, we propose that public entities be able to have an online section to which any citizen has real-time access to consult the applications for an apology made by the holders of political positions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u70	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u71	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have the opportunity to correct the legislation and set an example, demonstrating that legislation also serves to strengthen democracy. We cannot give the transparency and seriousness of public life as lost.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u72	For an intervention, you have the floor of Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa, PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u73	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members: Not a week ago we were not confronted with alleged incompatibilities or impediments by government members. one week are the companies of the husband of Mrs. Minister of Territorial Cohesion who receive Community funds protected by this, in another week it is Mr. Minister of Health, who passes the guardianship to a State Secretary for being married to Mrs. Bastonaria of the Order of Nutritionists and dissolves a consulting company in the field of health. one week is a company of the husband of Mr. Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education who receives financial support from a foundation protected by his wife, in another week it is a company of the father of Mr. Minister of Infrastructure and Housing, and of itself, which celebrates a direct adjustment with a public entity, after other contracts amounting to more than 1, 1 million euros. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, not all cases are the same, but they all reveal something in common, i.e. a huge concern of the government with the ethical values and potential conflicts of interest. In each case, the Government takes advantage of building the narrative that the law is unclear, which generates many interpretative doubts and lacks objectivity. No, that's not true, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! The law in question is very clear. I would say even more: the law is very clear and does not raise any interpretative doubts, at least in cases that have come to the public. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the law only needs to be applied and met. What is at issue is not the interpretation of the law, but its application, which affects the judiciary to measure the conformity or inconformity of the conduct of each one. Of course, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there will always be someone who has doubts—it is normal, in the world of law—but that does not mean that legal entities do not have to apply the law and that visas do not have to comply. There are also those who say that the law is not fair, proportionate or appropriate, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, that is not the debate we are having. Moreover, the Government has never said that the law is unfair, the Socialist Party has never said that the law is disproportionate, but only that the law is not clear and raises doubts. It is still curious that a party that often invokes republican ethics, when it wants to call to itself the public virtues, now invoke doubts to fail to comply with the law. It is also curious that the law, which in 2019 was good for the Socialist Party, ceases to be good just because it does not serve the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u74	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u75	One thing we all get, ladies and gentlemen. Members: on the limit, the Socialist Party will even change the law and adapt it to the conveniences of the government to remedy any incompatibilities. [[PSD applause.]] The Socialist Party has an absolute majority that confuses with absolute power and its pragmatism is always worth much more than its cherished republican ethics. [[PSD applause.]] in this context, and the stem, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not surprising that the government's resistance to providing the means for the Transparency Entity to leave the role and to be able to enter into the full range of its functions. Until then, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we will be whipped with the famous opinion of the Attorney General's Office of the Republic, voted in favour of the current Minister of Justice — remember! — to try to block the conduct of Minister Pedro Nuno Santos, even if he knows that the opinion does not refer to any situation in which the governor and the family have both participations, as is the case, in companies engaged in business with the State. Until then, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to be scolded with the edifice argument of the alleged legislative embarrassment, even knowing that only one law applies to the incompatibilities and impediments of the government, I repeat, only one law applies! — Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July. It is a law which was widely discussed in the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in 2019, and whose content, see well, was also praised by the Consultative Council of the Attorney-General of the Republic, which, considering it, did a very positive analysis of the work of the legislator and left no repair or criticism.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u76	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u77	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, under normal conditions, there would be no need for a law to prevent a ruler from allowing business of the State to himself or with a company of his or her family. It would suffice to be ethically irreprehensible. [[PSD applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, for many, those days are already coming. For others, the law must provide for everything in detail to prevent any of its meshes from being transposed, but even if almost everything, by the way, will always be invoked doubts and all possible arguments—but even everyone! — to try to justify their non-compliance. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, for the PS, the law is almost always a mere detail. As a socialist historian said: "To friends, everything; to enemies, nothing; to the rest, the law applies. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u78	Mr Pedro Pinto, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u79	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members: First of all, I would like to greet the Minister, because she is the only woman of courage in this government. Your other colleagues have all fled, refused the debate, stole, disappeared, but the Minister is here to face it. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Luckily, there's someone! Open... We are going with almost an hour of debate and, after hearing the intervention of the Liberal Initiative, we are not aware of what their position is. The Liberal Initiative in Bethlehem said one thing; in one committee another said another; and now in this Parliament another said another. It was important to clarify the position of the Liberal Initiative because, after all, three different things have already been said. I do not know whether each Member will have his or her opinion, but the truth is that they have said three different things and no one has understood the position of the Liberal Initiative. [[Protests by IL Member João Cotrim Figueiredo.]] With regard to the Left Block, we fully realize that you are not interested in this debate. We got it! But the honourable Member said that this is a populist debate and also that Parliament should not be a supervisory officer, which is totally wrong. It's totally the opposite. Populism was, yesterday, we discussed golf courses. This is an important issue for society, that of the golf courses, which the Left Block brought yesterday to discuss in this Parliament! [[Congrats from the CH.]] The Minister spoke in misinformation and also said that this news casts suspicion on politicians and institutions. It is true, but whoever throws this mistrust is his government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u80	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u81	...are your ministers, it is the promiscuity that exists among your ministers, your state secretaries, your families and all that. This is what casts distrust on the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u82	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u83	And that's what it's important for us to talk about. Do not tell me, Madam Minister, that we are the ones who have sent to the Polygraph of the SIC, which has revealed two more cases of incompatibility in this government. The speaker posted a printed news. Are we the ones who command in the media or are you the gentlemen? Oh, my God! You're giving money to the media, it's not us.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u84	Nothing else!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u85	You are investing in social communication. [[Congrats from the CH.]] That is the big difference, the 15 million euros that last year gave the State budget to social communication! It wasn't us. They're helping the media, and they're doing good, but they're not saying that we're sending in the media, because it's totally the opposite. Don't tell me we did this news: « Governor's sister does business with SIRESP». The speaker showed the news he mentioned. Is that enough that you made this news? Is that enough to send this news? For God's sake, Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u86	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u87	More: « Company of the husband of the Secretary of State for Fisheries has entered into a contract with the State ». In Leiria, as has already been said. It's embarrassing! It has to be a socialist chamber... there it is, the socialist rights adjustments! It is interesting that this always happens between the Government of the Socialist Party and the socialist chambers. Is it any coincidence too, or is it such direct adjustments that they like to do so much? Oh, my God! The Minister may like it, or not, but the law is very clear. That's very clear. It may be absurd, or whatever you want to call it, it may say you don't like it, but the law is clear and has to be complied with. The laws have been made to be met and these ministers cannot be in this government, they cannot continue in this government. [[Congrats from the CH.]] In fact, a government that has the Secretary of State of the Sea who ended up with the Naval Estaleros of Viana do Castelo and that has a Secretary of State of Fisheries whose husband's company does these business with the Chamber of Leiria, that means a lot. As you also mean a lot about Mr. Secretary of State for Conservation of Nature, Forests and Land Planning, who has a company to which seven direct adjustments were made amounting to 122 000 €.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u88	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u89	Do you know when that started, Minister? In 2010. And do you know what the Secretary of State João Paulo Catarino did in 2010? He was president of the Chamber of Proença-a-Nova, by the Socialist Party! That is, the mayor was making direct adjustments to his company or his wife's company. All on a personal level! [[Congrats from the CH.]] To conclude, Mrs. Minister, this is not witchcraft. This is not called witchcraft, it is called promiscuity, lack of credibility, lack of ethics, "owners of all this" and corruption, such a good word, that the Socialist Party likes so much. I could speak to you in José Socrates, of Manuel Pinho... I could talk to so many people! There is one thing about which this government does not lie: « Families First». The speaker showed a picture of the press conference where the Prime Minister announced the package of measures with that designation. Socialist families are always first,... [[Mr André Ventura's laughs.]] ... they are always the beneficiaries of the Government of the Socialist Party. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u90	To make an inquiry to the Bureau, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u91	Mr President, we are asking for this request to ask the Bureau to distribute to all the banks, but in particular to the Bank of the Arrival Party — we know that the country suffers from a problem of financial literacy, but it seems that there are those who have problems of democratic or political literacy —... [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u92	This is almost an intervention, it is not an appeal to the Bureau!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u93	... until a last plenary session where I refer to this subject in a request for clarification to the PSD. [[PSD protests.]] We also asked the Bureau to hand over the hearing to Minister Pedro Nuno Santos and, if possible, to ask Bethlehem for the transcription of what John Cotrim Figueiredo said about these cases, because we all said exactly the same thing. We are not with Minister Pedro Nuno Santos, unlike the Arrival, who is next to him when it is to break down 3200 million euros of Portuguese in the TAP! [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u94	This wasn't an appeal to the Bureau!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u95	The minutes of the plenary are public, as well as those of the committees, and the statements have also been duly recorded, but if the honourable Member makes the appropriate electronic identification, he will spare himself. Mr Pedro Pinto asked for the floor for an appeal to the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u96	Exactly, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u97	She should be at the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u98	He's at the Bureau, he's, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u99	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u100	Mr. President, it's just to tell Mr. Rodrigo Saraiva that we're going to send out,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u101	Okay, there it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u102	... only by the IL bench,... [[Are you at the table?Oh, my ……]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u103	... the news that says: « Pedro Nuno Santos says he acted in good faith on his father's company. Liberal initiative came in your defense. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Congrats from the CH.]] So we will also deliver this news to the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u104	The arrival is like the Observer : he likes and doesn't like...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u105	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the Socialist Party has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister: The debate this morning, above all, allows us to look at the real facts in its entirety with serenity and by looking at the law. It is not in a truncated manner, it is not changing dates, it is not making the debate a pastiche of subjects in which everything is called upon, precisely, not to discuss anything and to cause an effect which does not dignify neither the Republic, nor the laws of the Republic, nor the institutions of the Republic competent to assess the matter. So, above all, we hope that the rest of the debate will take place with the serenity that the overwhelming majority of parliamentary groups have sought to introduce into it and that it will be done with the entire and complete truth. For example, if we are making a debate about, among other things, the possible violation of the law and we exemplify reading the law, but we forget to read the norm to the end, as Mr. André Ventura had just done... I only give counsel to my students, only one, which is the only way I can give them: read the norm always to the end, because, as a general rule, it is what prevents surprise when they do not read the norm to the end. The honourable Member wants to exemplify a flagrant violation and comes to note, for example, as I have mentioned earlier, that the spouses' companies cannot participate, etc. but then forget the final point of the rule: in procedures initiated by a legal person that is responsible for the relative or spouse. I mean, it looks like a detail, but it's not. The law exists, is complete and has been discussed for many months, for many years. The law in force may have inadequacies — the point of the debate today is not so much — but at least at the moment we are discussing it, let us quote it to the end.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u107	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u108	And now let us do the exercise — which is also a serious exercise before the House — that when situations of potential incompatibility, impediment or conflict of interest are called up for debate, do not mix in periods of time when the holders allegedly responsible for these violations of their duties or even were not members of the Government; or where the party in the Government today is in opposition and, consequently, is not part of the gap in situations of incompatibility or impediments — as has been repeated here, by convening cases that are 10 or 15 years old, in which the persons concerned are not responsible, are not holders of political office, have no decision-making power and their parties are even in opposition, to confuse everything, and, above all, to fail to render good service to the parliamentary institution, to the government institution, to the institutions of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u109	And the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u110	Transparency, which has been reinforced since 2019 by legislation which has merited a very consensual support by the House — in relation to point aspects, there has been disagreement, but overall, it has merited the agreement of the parties represented in the House — allows for scrutiny. We are here today precisely because, as the Minister has already noted, there is a portal in which public contracts have been published since 2008 — a measure already introduced in a Government of the Socialist Party — and because, in relation to political office holders, not only the range of those who have reporting obligations has been extended as it has been ensured that these reporting obligations are published online. This enables any citizen, any journalist, any interested person to travel to that portal, check the declarations and records of interest and, indeed, by that way too, be able to make such scrutiny.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u111	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u112	It is as paradigmatic of this debate and the way it is attempting to confuse everything, to forget that, as a result — and I will go there — of aspects that have been raised, resolved and answered in 2019, the members of the Government subsequently fill not one but two times the declaration that is monitored in accordance with the law. Nothing happens, but still retroactively, one wants to give the idea that nothing is done, that nothing has been done and that everything continues to do, when, in fact, things take place...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u113	Slow down!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u114	... as since there are declarative obligations and since all these people fulfill these declarative obligations. And just here we are, precisely, because they did their duty. Therefore, this exercise of amalgama is something that is not very different from the work that this House does, for example, in all legislatures, and does it - regularly, not always with the same assistance by all political forces - in the Committee on Transparency, that all the parliamentary groups present are part of, when it exercises the analysis of all 230 registers of interest by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, many hours and many eyelashes have burned those who participated. And it allows you to do what?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u115	We're not talking about Members!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u116	We are talking about all those entities which are subject to declarative obligations, Mrs Deputy, and obviously we do the exercise that the law commits to us, Assembly of the Republic. We have made this complex, lasting check, implying that Mr. Members who may be in a situation which cannot be corrected to do so, ensuring that the publication takes place, as indeed, and I would like to say again, the powers contained in the law confer on the Public Prosecutor at the Constitutional Court the power to do the same with regard to the members of the Government. So, as the PSD Parliamentary Group itself said, we let the institutions of the Republic work. Let the bodies competent to do so. We have done here a work that is not different from that other institutions have to do, it is a complex work and implies interpretation of the law. Here we come to the point where — and this does not disqualify those who are not legalists — it is important to bear in mind that the interpretation of the law is not an exercise to read what is written, automatically concluding that that that little paper, which is a law, is divorced from the rest of the legal order. No, it must be borne in mind that the legal order has a constitutional text and that, when sacrificing fundamental rights — they are fundamental rights of political participation, of free economic initiative, of access to the benefits that the State grants to all citizens — they can only restrict them if there is a need for this restriction, if such restriction is appropriate to serve the purpose and if there is balance in the way the restriction is introduced.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u117	And isn't it, in this case?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u118	The figure of teleological reduction—word for many who are not jurists— accompanies us from Roman law and, therefore, the need to interpret a norm and to conclude that, potentially, it lacks an interpretation to serve its purposes, so that it is at the service of the objective which the legislator has placed in it, is reasonably crystalline in all courts, in all societies of lawyers, in all places where, in this country and in the outside world, a law applies daily. More: it could be said, then, that anyone interprets a law and can come to contradictory conclusions. So it would be if there were no mechanisms to tend to standardize these interpretations. And what is one of these mechanisms that have existed in the Portuguese legal order for decades? It is the Consultative Council of the Attorney-General of the Republic. [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u119	Therefore, disqualify the body that is used for this purpose, which issues opinions like many others... In France it is the Council of State, other countries have another structure, but there is, as a general rule, an independent body, advisory, to make the binding interpretation for the Public Administration. The Government has done what several governments have done before this and that after this they will continue to do, that is to say, it has requested an opinion from the Advisory Council of the Attorney-General of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the other hand, it is true that the Minister for Justice was part of the Advisory Council of the Attorney-General's Office on the date on which the opinion was delivered that she is not seeking additional suspicion. The Minister of Justice was a judge of the Constitutional Court, she was not the rapporteur of this opinion, and this opinion was unanimously adopted by the Advisory Council of the Attorney-General of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Unanimously!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u120	Following Mr President's appeal, I will not request the distribution of the opinion of the Attorney-General's Office on paper, requesting his e-mail only, since he is available online, so that all citizens can read it. On the other hand, the opinion of the Advisory Council of the PGR, at least the one whose applicability to cases has been raised, expressly refers to — and I would say: expressly — that the law will change, analyze and compare the previous law and the new law and, in this exercise, check what changes and what does not change,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u121	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u122	... underlining what standards are that are the same and that remain, for which, consequently, what is concluded at that time will have to continue to be concluded in relation to the following points.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u123	No, no! That's not true.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u124	The subject that is being discussed, I would like to say again, is explicitly from the seventh point of the Advisory Council's analysis, which did not ignore that the law would change and analyse the new law. It is true that he praises the new law in aspects in which it departs from the previous regime, but stresses the aspects that were identical. As for Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa, it is true that the PSD even proposed an amendment to this Article. the, but did not propose an amendment to the subject which was the subject of the opinion of the Advisory Council of the GRP. What the PSD proposed as an amendment was that the criterion, rather than being as it is now and as it has always been since 1993, with the 10 % social participation, would become the majority holding of capital.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u125	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u126	That is, the PSD proposal limited, reduced the scope of incompatibilities, but not in the sense in which the opinion had to be delivered, as to the impact it had on third persons. It had to do with this only and is in fact a point for which, since 1993, either in 1995 or 2019, the norm was maintained because the understanding was consensual in this regard. Now, I remember — sometimes the PSD forgets this fact — that in 2019 the Socialist Party did not have an absolute majority in this House. [[What about the Left Block and the PCP?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u127	Therefore, as much as they want to assign paternity to the norm, paternity is of all those who have voted in favour of it, of all those who have drafted it, it is not imputable to this or that. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Socialist Party is not saying that it is running away from its responsibilities...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u128	But the others who don't run away either!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u129	... and that it does not fail to acknowledge that it has contributed to that debate, but we are all involved in the process of evaluating the laws we have approved and continuing to do so. The separation of powers leads us to the fact that today we will not, of course, pronounce ourselves or issue judgments on competences that are not ours.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u130	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u131	And we will also not discuss any legislative amendments that one day can be made, following the message from the President of the Republic, for example, that, as Mr Pedro Filipe Soares stressed well, is especially confused, i.e. by quoting rules that have already been repealed and placing in the awkward matter which, precisely in 2019, has ceased to be there, and even matters that have nothing to do with incompatibilities. The universe of matters of the status of political office holders has to do with liability crimes, it has to do with other declarative obligations. Incompatibilities are one of the standards. We have also often heard in the social communication several people note that Parliament is always changing laws, that this issue of incompatibilities is unstable and is always changing, giving as an example this law has been changed three times since 2019. Now, just go see: none of the three amendments concern incompatibilities. One was a proposal from the NAP, voted in favour, on the matter of declarative obligations for the associations, which leads us all to have to declare whether we are associated with the football club Les Belenenses or whether we are followers of the recreational association Hunters of the Taipas. It was an innovation of that time and has nothing to do with incompatibilities. Another had to do with the annex, the little paper of the interest register, to clarify it. And the third had to do with the Transparency Entity. Many times in this debate, I have listened — I have heard the PSD Member report twice and I have heard it yesterday at the parliamentary hearing — stress that the Transparency Entity has to leave the paper and that it is necessary to solve the problem once and for all. I stress — and I think that being members of the Transparency Commission, they should have an obligation to know where the Transparency Entity is and why it is not installed — that the issue of installations has been healed since at least 2021. As regards the question of the funds, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva, the reason why, unfortunately, they continue to be the same is that, while not installed, the Entity has not hired any official and has not spent, nor does it have to spend, money to execute it, because it continues to be installed. The question I ask—and I think it is fair also to put it to this sovereignty body, since it is always the one who is invective, it is always the one who is attacked, in the sense of saying why the matter is not solved, as well as the government —...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u132	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u133	... is that, in fact, there is a standard introduced in the State Budget for 2021 which says that the Court had 30 days to designate the Entity.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u134	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u135	Nothing prevents the Constitutional Court from appointing the members of the entity so that they can, if they wish, acquire transitional facilities and start operating,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u136	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u137	... start giving guidance and dealing with the installation skills of the Entity. I must say that the legislator has provided for it and there has even been a note — reservations from the Constitutional Court about whether it would be there that it should be housed, or whatever, but Parliament has taken a rather broad decision on this subject. Responsibilities for financing, identification of headquarters and legal arrangements shall be remedied by legislative and executive bodies. It is increasingly important for the Court to appoint the Entity. However, until then, we are not before a legal void,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u138	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u139	... where no entity is responsible for ensuring that these matters are monitored. There's also a transitional standard...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u140	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u141	... that, with all clarity, says that it continues to compete with the Public Prosecutor's Office at the Constitutional Court,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u142	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u143	... to do what you have done since 1983 : to analyse the declarations and records of interest and heritage of all holders of political positions who are responsible and to initiate, in all circumstances where you detect a problem, their activation with the Constitutional Court,
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u144	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u145	...which is what the Public Prosecutor and the Constitutional Court will do if they intend to identify a difficulty there. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So in short, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, we could again invoke and reiterate the various reasons why the debate here is going on in the wrong place. Even so, it is to welcome the government democratically for having provided clarifications in all these cases, underlining, not what some people have as excuses or excruciating interpretations of the law—no! — but the legal regimes which apply to these matters, some decades ago, others several years ago. Some may raise interpretative doubts, others are clear, but in all cases they all respect the enforcement of the law and, in this respect, which is the theme of this question, it seems to me that it is very demonstrative that a case is created not to discuss matters of relevance. In fact, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has put his finger on the wound: the country, Europe and the world are going through problems which are serious enough not to change this debate — it is not that there is no debate on transparency, it is not that there is no debate on the risks associated with the exercise of public functions — so that this debate is not transvised or adulteryd, so that this debate is not manipulated for purposes which are strictly on the agenda of some political forces. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u146	The honourable Member has a request for clarification, and to make it clear, I give the floor to Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Minister, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, the CFP has always argued that there can be no confusion between the exercise of public office and private interests, as well as it has always argued that it is necessary to put an end to the promiscuity between economic power and political power.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u148	Less in Loures! And on Seixal!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u149	The fact is that there are still problems of this kind, which bring serious risks to democracy. It is precisely in order not to undermine the confidence of the people in democratic institutions that we believe that clarifications, clarifications, explanations by the Government are important, so that there is no doubt about the situations in question, as it is important that there be a clarification of these situations by the competent authorities. The legislation, in particular the regime of the exercise of functions by holders of political positions and high public positions, lays down criteria for preventing suspicions — which, in fact, we believe, do not introduce elements that favour the defence of the democratic regime — of personal and family benefit, lack of impartiality of public administration bodies or undue advantage. In fact, in his speech he also referred to the message addressed by the President of the Republic to the Assembly of the Republic, in which he asked for clarification of the incompatibility regime in the exercise of functions by holders of political positions and high public positions, considering the President that there is a complex legislative embarrassment—he made that reference—which has generated controversy and there are interpretative doubts concerning the regimes in question. For the CFP, as we have already publicly stated, it is obvious that there is always a possibility of improving legislation, but there is one aspect that we wanted to be clarified in this debate, and that it is also very clear to us: there is a law, which is to be fulfilled, and it is to be fulfilled by everyone. In his speech he also said that the law may have shortcomings, but what I would like to ask you, asking you to clarify, is whether, in the opinion of the Socialist Party and its opinion, there is a need to change legislation on these matters. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u150	To reply, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u151	Thank you very much, Mrs Paula Santos, for both questions. Starting with the first, with regard to the other guarantees of impartiality, allow me to take note of something I have not mentioned recently. This legislation on the exercise of functions by political office holders, too, is not an island in the legal order. And also, for several years now — since 1992, at least and before — in the Code of Administrative Procedure, there are rules on excuse and impediments in decision-making processes that apply to holders of any office, whether political or public, and to the Assembly itself. Therefore, there are guarantees beyond these. The rules we are discussing are whether it is even more radical to say that a particular entity cannot even go to a public procurement procedure, although this procedure has advertising, jury and be treated outside the sphere of public decision-makers. Go further! The Administrative Procedure Code, which also applies, provides additional guarantees of impartiality and, when we do this debate, we must take into account that there are other rules that tighten this mesh of guarantee and defense of the integrity of the institutions. As for the second question that you have put, in fact, on a personal basis, I often feel a kind of Albuquerque Afonso in these matters, because it is that old theme of « ill with him-I will for the love of men and evil with men for the sake of Him-King». I know that I often have positions that go a little further than those that some people in my party would have on these matters. We have differences, because, in the plural and comprehensive parties, there are those who understand that the paths can be one, but others understand to go to other places. We must not all agree, but, in the essential points on this matter, there is a line of continuity in relation to the strengthening of these standards, and it was the strengthening of these standards that, as a result of the work of 2019, which began in 2016, allowed a merger of diplomas, clarification and simplification. But it was precisely intended to avoid what should not be done: even if the reality is taken into account and, therefore, the cases that may arise should not be legislated over cases nor in the light of rules whose photograph can be identified, saying "this is the norm for the case of Amílcar, this is the norm for the case of Carla" and out there. This would be the worst service that Parliament could offer, to create standards which, in appearance, are general and abstract, but are actually inspired directly to solve problems in one way or another.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u152	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u153	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u154	That is what the Socialist Party will not do. That is to say, as always in our history, we have the willingness to contribute to improve legislation, looking at the message of the President of the Republic — which we are obviously looking at — but also seeing that it will not be entirely correct in some of the statements he has made. Therefore, the point will be exactly the same: in a hurry and bad it was a very bad service that we would provide to the institutions and to the law itself; consideration should be given to the balances that the PSD Parliamentary Group, the Liberal Initiative and other political forces have already said they want to maintain, it is an exercise that we can develop in the course of the legislature and that will certainly be beneficial to the entire legal order. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u155	Mrs Cristiana Ferreira of the PSD Parliamentary Group had correctly registered herself, during the speech of the speaker, to also make a request for clarification, but the Bureau incorrectly interpreted it as a request for intervention. Therefore, with the permission of the speaker, I will now give the floor to Mrs Cristiana Ferreira so that she may also make a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u156	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members, it may not be too much to remember, in any intervention on this matter, that Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July approving the regime of the exercise of functions by holders of political positions and high public positions came into force only three years ago and counted on a large number of legislative initiatives, with opinions, with contributions and with the work of the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions. It comes from the history of the legislative process that the PS is the mentor of a very significant set of provisions currently in force and adds that, until the recent cases involving government members, the current regime has deserved a very broad consensus on the solutions found. Therefore, the first note I want to record, in particular with the Socialist Party, is that the controversy arises from the cases and not from the law currently in force. Thus, contrary to what is stated in the 8 October 2022 communiqué of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, the central aspect of the understanding of the duties to which the members of the Government are subject and of the limitations to the freedom of economic initiative of their families can only be the law in force and the application thereof. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the only way to strengthen citizens' confidence in the institutions and add quality to our democracy is to always fight for the guarantee that the judicial authorities play their role...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u157	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u158	...and check whether or not the law has been violated, even for the benefit of visas.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u159	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u160	Exactly! All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u161	The important thing is that there is no doubt about the alleged incompatibilities of government members, and these doubts can only be dispelled by those who have the responsibility to enforce the laws, which are not the political parties, regardless of whether they are in the government or in the opposition.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u162	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u163	The PSD therefore refuses to change the law of incompatibilities to run and to think in specific cases, without prejudice to it, as any other law, always be able to merit weighting or change. But that is not today's discussion. So I ask Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, in particular: until the news of the cases that are today of public knowledge, did the PS agree or not with the law that is currently in force? Not agreeing, when did you express this agreement? Finally, does it recognise that the current controversy arises from the cases rather than from the law itself? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u164	To answer...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for this. As for the issues you have raised, a first...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u166	The honourable Member, who is a brilliant regimentist, let me give you the floor before you use it. [[Laughing.]] It's given. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u167	I'm sorry, Mr. President. It was to contribute to the expediency of the work. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for this. With regard to one of the issues you have raised, I think you have addressed it to the wrong bench, because we agree that it is indeed the bodies of the Republic that have the power to assess the matters that must be done. Therefore, it is the marking of this debate that is strange in this context not to let institutions that have to assess whether incompatibilities or not work. This House has responsibility for Members, and this is a regular exercise, as I said recently. In fact, this exercise is a demonstration that the law, even if we change it tomorrow, will have to be interpreted after tomorrow. Therefore, the idea that the law is insufficient to have to be applied and discussed does not occur when we again, in the Committee on Transparency, concerning the registration of the interests of Members, produce a report with more than 30 pages which examines several issues which the law does not resolve, because only in the specific case must it be interpreted. That is what we have here in fact: in the face of an interpretative doubt, which cannot wait for the decision that may one day come from the competent authorities, a person has to know whether he is in a position to perform public functions or not. And, with good faith, should you inform yourself how? Through the body which, in the Portuguese legal order, among others, can give an interpretation, if not binding, at least guidance, for the Public Administration. This is what happens: the law was interpreted, and it was interpreted by an external entity, whose function is that. It is not particularly unusual, therefore, in this context, this debate takes place in the wrong place and at the wrong time, with all respect for who marked it. Finally, on the other issue you referred to, it also deserves our agreement. Changing the law in a hurry and depending on the moment and impulses is a bad solution. Therefore, the 2019 process — or rather, it started in 2016 and was until 2019 — allowed not to make this mistake and make hearings, collect contributions, realize where the law had been well and poorly interpreted, which is what needed to be changed. As far as this is concerned, we are actually pleased with the result achieved, but we are not naive to think that, forever, the law is stabilized and that it will not always be necessary to review it. But surely we won't do it in a hurry and we won't do it by impulse. This would be the worst service we could do and it is with some pleasure that we see that there is responsibility on the part of the PSD, the Liberal Initiative, the PCP and the Left Block for what they said about how we should seriously view the review of the law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u168	For an intervention on behalf of the parliamentary group, or on behalf of the Free Party, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u169	Thank you very much, Mr President, we will be there! [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u170	Or not!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u171	Normally, to discuss issues such as inflation or war in Europe, which affect millions of people, the only Member of the Free has 1 minute. To discuss cases about individuals, we have the eternity of 3 minutes. We use them well, then. This case is not about the foam of the days, although being about individuals is not a minor case. The history of this theme is the history of the struggle between democracy and populism. Nor can it happen to those who are seeing us here, in the galleries, or to those who may be seeing us at home — as the debate between, on the one hand, «the cousin's husband who has the company who...», i.e., are all made with each other and, on the other hand, the decree, the law that was revised in 1992 or 1993, finally the legislative tarnish. In other words, by summarizing: we've all lost. This is not a debate between the simplicity of the accusations of those who think they are all equal and the complexity, incomprehensible to the common citizen, of the interpretations of the legislative texts. The story is as follows: either the democracies can anticipate what happens to them and, in this sense, they can act, or the democracies lose their thread to the beat and, worse than all this, they lose themselves. We have three ways before us: we can leave the courts and not comply with our obligation, we can legislate—because even the proposer of today's debate thinks that there is a legislative embarrassment, and that is why we are here to debate, hear and legislate—and we can finally leave these issues as a pasture for populists. in this case, we have an obligation to know what happens, until that is in history books. I found it curious that in today's debate it was the proposer who spoke several times in « fascism» and « fascism». Normally, these are words that are not used in this Chamber, because there is a kind of fear in using them. There is much ease in using the words « extreme left» and « communists», even for those who are not of the Portuguese Communist Party... [[CH Member Protests Bruno Nunes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u172	Mr Bruno Nunes, so far you have been able to hear, you will certainly be able to hear another minute.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u173	He's got 3 minutes and he doesn't know what to say!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u174	Interestingly, on the essential theme of the history of democracies in our geographical area, in Western Europe — which was how democratic regimes in our countries fell before fascisms — we never talk about it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u175	Forget it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u176	I don't forget, no! That was what you wanted us to forget, but we do not forget, because that is the fundamental issue. And you know how democracies fell? That's when they didn't know how to take care of you, they didn't know how to apply the law, they didn't know how to make laws that were... [[CH protests.]] I understand nervousness, so well understand the nervousness of a party that never clarified where the money came from of its first campaign,... [[CH protests.]] ... which was legalized with false signatures in the Constitutional Court,... [[Congrats from PS Members.]] [[CH protests.]] ...that came with a history of declarations...I understand very well the nervousness! Even yesterday, there was news in the magazine Saturday, which tells us that the Advisory Council that was made up of funding from the party itself. they don't come to talk about it, and I understand your nervousness. They get nervous when they talk about what matters, which is democracy to defend themselves. [[What about Joacine?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u177	Look at something...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u178	The honourable Member has to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u179	I shall conclude, Mr. President. For democracy to defend itself and have a future, it needs to be able to make the institutions work. [[CH protests.]] For democracy to be lost, it is very simple: precisely, in front of parties like yours, it is enough to do nothing, and I hope it will not be there that we fall. [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u180	Mr Rui Tavares has submitted a request for clarification to the Bureau, although he does not have time to answer. I ask Mr Bruno Nunes whether he wishes to make the request for clarification, even under these circumstances.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u181	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u182	Then you have the word, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u183	Mr President, for Mr Rui Tavares the time available was an eternity, but I still said so much, so much, that I even wanted to know where we went to get the money from the first campaign. Little by little wants to know where André Ventura bought the first cache from Benfica. Be calm, honourable Member, worry about what you did with Joacine Katar Moreira, about how you treated her and, even as you said, you didn't represent her from behind. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u184	Machist!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u185	The honourable Member also says that when it comes to economics it has one minute and then it has three minutes here and that this is an eternity. There are things that, perhaps, we shouldn't even hear. We should try to realize that sometimes influences in the City Hall of Lisbon, with seven advisers, could also set up a very complex personal favor. [[Congrats from the CH.]] When we talk about these personal favors, we see, for example, the Left Block coming here and saying, "We're not going to be populists, we're going to talk about tuna, the tuna can that's out there." However, you should talk about the tuna can, the potato price and the beans price, but that would give a Russian salad and would not reach that side. These prices were the ones that helped and helped to increase every time they tried to cover up these cases that have just indicated several principles of corruption. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The Liberal Initiative has tried again the number of coming up to arrive. Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto only came in later because, however, the bench could not speak with one voice, because he had already praised Minister Pedro Nuno Santos. As for the PSD, if they really agree with the position, we need to realize once and for all why they have not brought the subject to debate first? Why are the trailer coming again? Why does the PSD leave itself in this amorphous position in which we end up not understanding what they want, confusing your leader's statements, which ends up being very confusing? The Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs said today that she does not want to vote for anything at all, she wants to destroy the institutions. Mr President, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his excellent work on this subject. Yesterday, as a Vice-President of ours had not been elected, it was necessary to stop work in order to respond to a need from the President of the Assembly of the Republic. [[Congrats from the CH.]] We are now going to talk about Mr. Minister of Territorial Cohesion, who is very nice, and who always cries immensely in all the statements. It is already historical, it was already back when he was President of the CCDR, not only when the husband's company received the funds. When statements were made in court concerning the trial of CCDR and Pedrogão Grande, the Minister, who was the same and had a history, also cried at the time. The CFP laughs at these things, but just recently I heard Mrs Paula Santos say that the CFP always wanted to separate the issues of the family from the issues of politics. Then I remembered the genius of the lamps in Loures, and the son-in-law of Mr. Secretary of State, Jerome of Sousa. [[Secretary-General!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u186	That's right, Secretary-General. Fortunately, he was not Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u187	That's a dump!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u188	We also have this situation of Minister Ana Abrunhosa. After Pedrogão, the husband’s company had a partner who had already been charged with corruption cases. The same Minister who had, however, already had proceedings by anonymous letters sent for defamation, to destroy the career of the former President of CCDR. I mean, there was, here, a history. Mrs. Mr Rui Tavares and Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, after all paternalism, there is really something that is clear, but that we would like to understand better. In the opinion of the Attorney-General of the Republic, which we should read to the end, it is clear that all this can set up something very complex, ethically, and that we should carefully manage these relations. What I am asking, Mr Rui Tavares, is if you agree that these ministers should resign. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u189	Mr Rui Tavares, for what effect do you ask for the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u190	Mr President, it is to make an inquiry to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u191	All right, Mr. Deputies. Please speak to the Bureau, which is me and my colleagues.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u192	Thank you very much, Mr President. contrary to what is usual, I will not ask the Bureau to distribute documents, but I would like the Bureau to send me the transcript of this request for clarification as soon as possible, so that I can see where there is a request for clarification. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u193	Mrs. CH Members, please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u194	Perhaps you can find in the transcript some clarification about the money of the first campaign, which has never been clarified, and the false signatures that have been delivered. [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u195	Mr. Pedro Pinto asks for the floor. I imagine it's for an interrogation at the table?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u196	Exactly, Mr. President. It's just...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u197	Don't forget the table.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u198	Yeah, but it's not the first time this happens anymore. Mr Rui Tavares is a repeat of these things: ask the Bureau for an inquiry and then speak of everything but with the Bureau. I mean, what he wanted to do was a direct question to arrive but he doesn't have time. Since you don't have time, I should be quiet, which is how he's okay! Manage your time! He had 3 minutes and could have done it at that time, but he didn't. That is why there has been no appeal to the Bureau, Mr President. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[L-protests and CH-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u199	At the next Conference of Leaders we will have to understand — in the sense of 'we have to' — about these requests for clarification which are made when the person to whom they are asked can no longer respond and are transformed into interventions, changing the order of inscriptions. We will easily agree on this at the Leaders' Conference, as we have always done. Mr Rui Rocha, of the Liberal Initiative, now speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u200	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Members: The PS has been in the government, almost uninterruptedly, in the last three decades.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u201	Good for the country!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u202	Therefore, the issue of incompatibility cases coincides with the cases of incompatibility in the PS and its governments. More than seeking legal interpretations, the succession of cases allows us to find a criterion. We had the case of Minister Ana Abrunhosa, who was clearly an ethical issue, which was also raised by the Liberal Initiative and Mr Prime Minister said "there is no illegality, so there is no case". However, next came the case of Minister Pizarro and there was clearly a legal issue. For the PS, there too, apparently, there is no case. We also had the case of the then Minister of Culture, Graça Fonseca, who had a company that provided goods and services to the municipality where she was a councilwoman. in this case, there was an ethical issue and a legal question, but also there the PS believes there is no case. So we know that for PS there is never a case, whether it's a legal issue, whether it's an ethical question, or a combination of both. Therefore, we can discuss the law, surely, but what we have to discuss is the role of corrupting the democratic principle that is this tendency that PS has to occupy the state, to appropriate the state, and that is what we fight, and we will fight, without a quartile, on the bench of the Liberal Initiative. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u203	He made a request for clarification to Mr Rui Rocha. To formulate it, I give the floor to Mrs Rita Matias of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u204	Mr President, Mr Rui Rocha, the first question I would like to ask the Liberal Initiative is whether or not you have clarified your position on this issue of incompatibilities, because the news here says that Pedro Nuno Santos acted in good faith on his father's company and the Liberal Initiative comes in his defense. [[IL protests.]] So we don't really understand the positions. Here in Parliament, they say one thing and in the social communication, which is much more solidarity with you than with us, they say another, so I think it is important to clarify this issue. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[IL protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, please allow me to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u205	More questions!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u206	Mr. President, may I continue? Thank you very much. We had the opportunity to hear, during the debate, many comments on the quality of democracy and the beauty of the institutions and I would like to share with you some data: last year 88% of the Portuguese said that there are serious corruption problems in the government. More than half of the Portuguese considered that the Socialist Government had done a bad job in combating corruption and 41% of the Portuguese believed that corruption had increased in the last year. It is therefore apparent that there is contempt in the institutions, which then manifests itself in the distance that citizens have from politics, not to admire the numbers of abstention, which surround more than 40 %. For a long time, people have seen that those who serve the public cause serve themselves more than the people. I'd like to see the Liberal Initiative comment on this data. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It is not surprising the lack of faith that the Portuguese have in politics, when we see cases like that of Minister Elvira Fortunato, and I would also like to hear a small comment from the Liberal Initiative on this subject. The Portuguese were surprised with news, once again conveyed by the social communication rather than by the Arrival, in which the Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education could not have ceased the activity in her company, linked to the investigation, in which she held 16 %. The governor came later to say that, after all, he had even ceased his activity before taking possession, but the reality is that there is no communication on the Justice Portal. The Minister goes further and, according to her own words, she tells us that she is all right, because she made the transmission of the quota to her husband, as if it were a lot to rest for the Portuguese. However, it remains clear whether, in fact, she is married under a regime of communion of acquired persons, otherwise the situation of incompatibility remains. The Liberal Initiative follows us in this case, in which it is necessary to say that Caesar's wife is not enough to be, is it also necessary to appear? Moreover: in July 2022, the association of the governor's husband, AlmaScience, received a support of more than 56 000 € from the Foundation for Science and Technology, which is protected precisely by the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. Therefore, what matters to explain is: when Portugal is 9. the EU country which least mobilizes funds for research, why are always the projects of the families of the rulers that are financed? [[Congrats from the CH.]] Does the Liberal Initiative accompany us in this concern? I end with one last question: in 2020, the Minister gave an interview in which she said: "I have a great passion for my family and my work" and in this interview you can also read: "I do not like to separate the profession from personal life". So, the Liberal Initiative believes that the Minister is in a position to continue in her duties and that she is able to separate her personal life from her professional life? Just to conclude, I still say that if the Liberal Initiative does not know how to answer these questions and if the Socialist Government does not have ethics, morals and competence...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u207	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u208	...to govern Portugal, as it is said in good Portuguese: « get out of front, which comes back people». [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u209	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u210	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister : For the CFP, the key issue when it comes to establishing incompatibilities and impediments in the exercise of public office is to prevent public functions from being used for private benefits, either directly to the holder himself or indirectly to whoever is close to him. over the last decades, the country has been witnessing frequent and successive legislative changes in the areas of incompatibilities and impediments, usually included in the so-called "transparency packages", always aiming at tightening the mesh of incompatibilities, creating new impediments or extending reporting obligations. Where the media space is occupied by news involving illegal or ethically censored acts involving holders of public office, such as opening a contest of ideas in the Assembly of the Republic to see who can better tighten the systems of incompatibilities and impediments. Now, as no one wants to stay behind in this competition, legislation will be changed, sometimes with wisdom, sometimes without it, but always with broad consensus, no one will be able to be accused of opposing the adoption of new and tighter laws that always have the generous purpose of preventing corruption in the exercise of public positions. If there are legal provisions that someone considers less clear, they must be interpreted by those who have legal and legal competence to do so. If at any time it is found that existing laws must be improved and there are concrete proposals in this regard, the CFP will be, as it has always been, available to assess them properly and to participate in the search for solutions that it considers appropriate, but we have no illusions. As complete as the law is, and must be as reliable as possible, nothing replaces the prevalence of a high ethical awareness in the exercise of public functions. The existing legislation on incompatibilities and impediments focuses very much on the issue of the family relations of the holders of public office and aims to prevent them from benefiting from family positions or directly benefiting their family members. It is natural to have this concern, but it should be stressed that the most well-known cases of corruption involving holders of public office consisted not of the benefit of family members, but of their own benefits obtained by promiscuity relations between the holders of public office and the economic interests benefited by their acts.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u211	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u212	In order to prevent undesirable situations, it is important to have legal measures that prevent a political decision-maker from taking decisions that may benefit his family members, putting at risk the principle of equality among all citizens. But more or more important than knowing what the spouse, the parents, children or brothers of a ruler, an author, a director general or a Member, is knowing who has benefited economically from their decisions and whether they have been offset by such decisions that have benefited him directly or indirectly. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the CFP does not move in political life by any goal of personal persecution, whether it is to anyone or to suspect whoever it is. There is a legal regime of incompatibilities and impediments that must be met by all holders of positions covered by it. There are competent entities to verify compliance with that legal regime. Since there are suspicions of non-compliance, they must be investigated by those in law. Confirmed that this is non-compliance, the competent authorities must therefore remove all consequences, in order to cease illegal situations and apply the sanctions provided for in the law. What does not benefit anyone and can only harm the democratic regime is that, rather than enforce the law and require ethical rigour in the exercise of functions, a generalised suspicion of the holders of public office and their families, which, to the limit, leads to almost criminalization of the exercise of public office. Because of being familiar with the holder of a public office, no one should be benefited, nor should he be harmed in an unfair and disproportionate way. This is the principle of equality among all citizens and we repudiate the vile indignity of those who resort to slander already denied by the authorities. And we will not fail to underline the following: there was no need for any ruler to belong to the Holy Spirit family so that the Holy Spirit Group was benefited by government decisions detrimental to interest and public record.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u213	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u214	There was no need for any family member of any government in front of a motorway dealer company to be seriously injured by public-private partnerships with road concessions. The corruption scandals that justly shocked the country in recent years and that involved the exercise of public functions were not due to family relations, but mainly the promiscuity relations between rulers who made decisions and economic groups that benefited from them at the expense of the public interest. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u215	Mr Filipe Melo has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u216	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Members: Mr Rui Tavares, do you know the man who wants to destroy the world? Do you know George Soros? Do you know the Open Society Foundations? As it is said in my land: "Don't regrow into the air because it will fall upon it." Mr. Deputies, the lesson remains. [[L. Protests.]] Mrs.Minister, I confess that I was almost moved by her first intervention to appeal to calm, democracy, to institutions and almost to think like this: "There come these bastards to speak of something that was quiet. The Malanders of the Arrival came to pick up the case of incompatibilities when this was almost over. It is these traquines that, from time to time, remember that, by chance, in the district of Braga, we — the Socialist Party — have an author who runs the House in house arrest. » These guys, these bastards, who occasionally remember to bring the debate that our government is loaded with relatives: they are uncles, they are cousins, it's the dog, it's the cat, it's the periquitus, it's all ours. Why do these guys bring this to the debate? Do not keep on seeking. ” Mrs. Minister, this is too serious a subject to be forgotten, or then to do as the PSD did. Mrs Emília Cerqueira said: "Yes, sir, there is a case of incompatibility, the Minister of Infrastructure has a specific case of incompatibility". However, it does not bring this subject to debate, it comes in populism, and it is enough that we have to take up the role of the right and bring a theme of this importance to the debate, because the PSD does not have this courage. [[All right!]] [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u217	It is almost the old story of « they speak, they speak, they speak, but they do nothing». This is the PSD. [[PSD protests.]] The honourable Member has given an excellent picture of what the PSD is and what is becoming the PSD: in matters that are of importance, they do not have the courage, they do not have the boldness to debate, and those who put them into discussion are accused of populism. Recast that stance of yours. Madam Minister, it is important to realize that there are no demagogy here, no populism. It is important to realize that we have two different laws: there is a law of 93, which has an opinion; there is a law of 2019, which does not seem and is very important to read and understand, which is very easy. In the light of Law No 52 / 2019, the contract concluded with companies in this case by Pedro Nuno Santos and his father is expressly prohibited and, as such, the said opinion which relates to the previous law is inapplicable. So, Minister, the question that I objectively leave you seriously is the following: is it not a case of incompatibility? Is there a law that doesn't exist for the other? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u218	Mrs Emília Cerqueira, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u219	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u220	An appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u221	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u222	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u223	Mr President, it was only to require that the agenda be reached last Wednesday on the political statements and the theme of the PSD's political declaration, which was precisely on the issue of the incompatibilities of political and public office holders to deal with this amnesia. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u224	The agenda is public, it's on Parliament's site. For an intervention, I give the floor to Mr Artur Sovereign Andrade of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u225	Mr President, Mrs. Minister, Dear Members, all the best compliments. The three illustrious colleagues of my bench who preceded me, with the usual brilliantness and competence, have already escalated the legal and political issues with the competence that we have all observed. therefore, in this intervention, I will do a different exercise. I will try to put myself in the skin of the people who are in the galleries and who are accompanying the work at home and want an answer to the following question: why does it matter what they are talking about? I'll try to respond to that within my strength. [[PSD applause.]] We are talking about a fight that must call us all, which is the fight against corruption, friendship and compassion, and which, however it may seem ignored or disregarded, is of absolutely fundamental importance. I draw attention to the fact that anyone who is watching, in the galleries or at home, knows the damage caused by incompetence or waste. The damage that corruption causes is not so visible or so clear, so the PSD alerts here that, when we are discussing these issues, we are taking care of the quality of our democracy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u226	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u227	...to make our democratic mechanism increasingly sound. We are talking about the dignity of the political exercise, that is, we are talking about the respect we deserve and we should do well as long as we are engaged in political activity, we are talking about the resources of the country — the resources are scarce and the unlimited needs — and all that is wasted because of corruption hinders the satisfying of the basic, social and other needs of those who listen to us. Moreover, the private economy is also severely penalized by corruption, because the tax massacre that people and companies are subjected to is largely wasted, is thrown out of the window whenever we face corruption attitudes. But not only the public investment itself that is also damaged, that is, the money that the State has for schools, roads, hospitals, etc. , being diverted, in a piece of cake, for undue and illegitimate purposes, is harming everything that has ceased to be done by this way. To end this exemplification we have the question of social support. There are so many people with so many difficulties that we need so much support that we can't waste means in any way.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u228	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u229	Having said that, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that companies, and everyone in general, are concerned about their reputation, and there are even those who pay for positive advertising. Now, corruption is negative marketing of the worst that exists, and that has damage. It is also important that these subjects be treated without ticks and populist or demagogic tricks, because this has the adverse effect of causing anesthesia, and it seems that we are dealing with the situation when we are disguise it and adiá-la. So don't count on us to align with the populist or demagogic trap.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u230	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u231	By now, answering the honourable Member of the European Union — it is no longer here! — which attacked the PSD by the way the PSD acts in these matters, I will explain, in a very simple way, and to finish: who has nothing to say, screams; who has what to say, explains why it is right. So our style is serene, because we don't have to scream. We have material to transmit and significant density. So what we want is to explain that we are right. In order to end — and I thank tolerance — it remains to be said that for the PSD what matters in this matter, here and today, is that the law is complied with.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u232	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u233	The rest are diverse, doesn't matter at all, because there is a law, the law must be applied and fulfilled and nothing else. The PSD believes and trusts the courts and they deal with the matter. I'm done right now...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u234	The honourable Member had already promised to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u235	Yeah, but it's just to remember the huge Francisco Sá Carneiro, who said that risk-free politics was a mess, but without ethics it was a shame. I'm subscribing. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u236	Mr Pedro Frazão, from the Czech Republic, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u237	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Members: Indeed, ethics-free politics is a shame, and the lack of PS ethics has become a Greek tragicomedia, which has led us to a truly charged situation. Mrs Marta Temido — who is back there and has now proved to us that there are, in fact, Members who have nothing to do, not even to the Health Committee, for her area of expertise — has resigned. [[Protests from PS, PCP, BE and L, having PS members beaten with their hands at the end of the benches.]] Mrs. Marta Feared resigned... [[Continuation of PS, PCP, BE and L protests and CH counterprotests.]] [[Pause.]] Mr. President, time continues to count.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u238	The honourable Member is speaking and the honourable Member must abstain from considerations that are offensive.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u239	Mr. President, I'm sorry, but... [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u240	The honourable Member is speaking. If you want to talk, keep talking.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u241	...it was not my intention to offend at all Mr. Deputies, just to stress that Mrs. Marta Tepido resigned herself to so many mornings and left the Ministry of Health in ruins. And who came to save this Ministry of Health, after arriving he has warned many times and asked for his own resignation? [[Congrats from the CH.]] He came to save the SNS (National Health Service ), Dr. Manuel Pizarro, the Minister who has already been Secretary of State for Health of José Socrates. But if a minister of José Socrates serves to lead the country as Prime Minister, it is clear that a Secretary of State of José Socrates also serves to lead the Ministry of Health, even after all his school of blood mafia and all his school of listening. Indeed, it has a great curriculum vitae, but the journalists, that great bench of journalists who are here, right on September 26th — much earlier, Mr. Minister, of the Minister's giving up his record of interests — came to us to realize that Mr. Minister was married to Mrs. Bastonária of the Nutritionist Order, in fact, an order which he himself created in 2011 when he was Secretary of State of Health of José Socrates. So we soon learned that Bento Pizarro is just another very powerful family of the Socialist Party. Next, on 3 October, the Minister himself said that he had 60 days to give up the register of interest and that he was going to deliver it with all ease. Journalists have informed us, through research journalism — Mrs Minister, it was not through the register of interests — that Minister Manuel Pizarro was a partner-manager of a company in the area which he himself protects. In fact, the company even had its own name as the company's social name. So we learned that, in fact, the Socialist Party is a party of law holes and that the Minister was out of the law, it was not even beyond the consequences. The Socialist Party continues to live in total socio-cratic impunity and that is why, Mr President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, Portugal is in the worst rates of perception of corruption and that is why we have today the galleries of this full plenary: it is because the people are interested in what we are talking about. This is not populism, it is talking to the people, it is talking about what people want to see discussed in this House. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you two very specific questions: has Minister Manuel Pizarro already closed your company, have you sold your shop? Who did you sell the store to, and how much did you sell the store, Mrs. Minister? [[PS protests.]] Calm down, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that speaking in stores and in the Socialist Party, with regard to the Government of Socrates, makes you very angry, but we are not talking about the Mozart Store or any other store, we are talking about Mr. Minister's shop. In fact, Pizarro's case is weird...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u242	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u243	... and it is not worth it — Mr President, I will now finish — Mr Pedro Delgado Alves repeat his mantra « we are above the law, we control the law, we run the law». Everyone in the country has already realized that the PS is above the law, but there are three exits to this situation, Mrs. Minister : either the ministers earn shame and resign, or the Constitutional Court applies the law exactly as it is, or then we will say that a law has to be interpreted, passing an attestation of incompetence to whom the law has written, to whom the law has promulgated, which was Mr. President of the Republic, and an attestation of burrice to all Portuguese, to whom they want to cheat on their beards about what is happening in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u244	Mr. Eurico Brilliant Dias is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u245	Mr President, it is for an inquiry on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u246	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u247	Mr President, the Socialist Party's bench has been getting used, during this Legislative Session, to receiving various impropriety and insults and I must say that, when insults come from a particular bench, for us, some of these insults are genuine democratic medals. [[P.S.'s applause.]] However, there is a limit that the parliamentary leader of this bench should stress. The way in which a Member exercises his or her mandate chooses the committees to which he or she wishes to belong and articulate the work within the parliamentary group to which he or she belongs concerns the parliamentary group, of course, but, firstly, the free exercise that that Member or that Member makes the mandate he or she has and for which he or she has been elected, in this case, by the electors.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u248	He's been here a month and hasn't spoken yet!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u249	The leader of the list of the Socialist Party in Coimbra exercises his mandate in this Parliament in freedom and any conditioning, even if insulting, of other benches will not limit the freedom of this Member,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u250	Is that an interrogation at the table? [[CH-protests and PS-protests.]] [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u251	... just as we will not let the 120 PS Members be conditioned in the free exercise of the will of the Portuguese, who gave this party an absolute majority. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u252	Mr Pedro Pinto asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u253	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau, because once again what happened here was no request to the Bureau. It was a defense of honor that Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias did. I am not going to dwell on what I have said, until I am making an inquiry to the Bureau about the conduct of the work, but what we think on this bench about the conduct of the work is that Mr Pedro Frazão was cut off with screams and shouts — that is what happened — of the 120 Members of the Socialist Party. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS and L protests.]] If there is anyone here in this House who can interrupt a Member is the President of the Assembly of the Republic and not the 120 Members of the Socialist Party, because they do not send in here. The one who runs in here is that gentleman who's up there. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS and L protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u254	I reiterate that a minimum requirement, a necessary condition for the democratic debate we have here, is that we know how to distinguish, at every moment, political criticism, which may be rude, aggressive, implacable, and the personal insult, and the way a Member of your bench referred to a Member of Parliament has referred to the personal insult. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u255	We will continue with our debate, now being inscribed, for the closure, Mr André Ventura, of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u256	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister : The debate now coming to an end is marked by various attitudes, but above all by an incomprehensible attitude for the Portuguese, which is to look aside and hide such a serious problem of our democratic life.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u257	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u258	The government, called to a debate on these, does not give a single explanation of the incompatibilities, saying only that the ministers have complied with the law in their perspective and then gives us half an hour of testing on democracy, on their struggle and the ghosts of the present and the past. I am sure that many of those who are attending this debate today, as well as the thousands who are accompanying us at home, today expected a democratic government to say: « Portuguese, we have failed where we could not fail. [[Congrats from the CH.]] We failed in the transparency that we could not give Portugal, we failed when ministers who were the air carriers of transparency were the first to those who happened situations of incompatibility, we failed because we promised more transparency and less corruption and we did not manage that there is even a day when this does not happen in the eyes of the Portuguese. Do not keep on seeking. ” Whoever wakes up today, in Portugal, and grabs on the cover of one of our mats...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u259	But what?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u260	...it would certainly be stupid: the Minister of Finance investigated in Portugal. What we have today is this House looking to the side and saying: « we do not want to know about it. What we want is to discuss energy poverty, we want to discuss low wages, we want to discuss water, we want to discuss drought." All right. All right. But it was the party that brought this issue to the debate today that presented, in the last State budget, 300 and many proposals, all led by the Socialist Party, about poverty, drought and everything else. [[Congrats from the CH.]] No, Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, the problem of all this is not the teleological reduction. I know that those at home should think like this: "Oh, the teleological reduction! This is what we have been looking for all this time». [[CH's laughs.]] Is the minister married to the woman of a company who received money from the state? Teleological reduction. Does the Minister have business with the state in an area that protects? Teleological reduction. What, he received Community funds and was paid by the Minister himself leading a CCDR? Teleological reduction. At home, people today will fall asleep with these words: teleological reduction. But there is one thing I say to you, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves : there is no teleological reduction that pays the feeling of shame that I and millions of Portuguese have for this government, increasingly incapable, in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Yes, Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares, today perhaps we could be discussing poverty and wages,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u261	We should!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u262	...the price of tuna, cucumbers and milk. We should, sir, but do you know why we're not? Because we chose a government that can't fight the biggest of our evils, which is called corruption, because if I did, we didn't have to be here to discuss this. Others, of course, prefer to talk about funding campaigns and subscriptions, but they don't want to talk about George Soros' money or how his family members are in political offices. Perhaps this is a warning to those who like to be here always to « throw in the air », but forget that they are the worst democracy transports to Portugal. That is why, Mr. President, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the opinion they invoke does not apply to this legislation. I would like to make this clear as water to which you are listening: the opinion invoked by the PS to sustain the incompatibilities does not apply, either with teleological reduction or with teleological extension, to the cases present here! No, Mrs. Minister, the case is very clear: Pedro Nuno Santos, Manuel Pizarro and Ana Abrunoosa violated the law of this country, violated the law passed by this Parliament, violated, and we all know who violated the law. Now, we only have one option before us:...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u263	Buy the lei!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u264	... or we demand responsibility or the law of the Republic died today, here in this Parliament, as we demanded responsibilities from the State. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, a Minister will be closing this debate in minutes. And I am sure you will explain to the country how a minister can, at the same time, be a partner, no longer with the teleological reduction of Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, but with the scope and capacity, which we recognize to the Minister, to explain how a Minister of Health, on the day he takes possession, can be a partner-manager. But it will also explain how a law that does not apply to business with relatives will be able to encompass the case of a minister who, with his father, has business with the State. And perhaps we can reach the end of the debate and perhaps explain to everyone, how a Minister can be married to someone who receives Community funds, protecting the area of Community funds.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u265	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u266	Without conversation, without « Venezuela » and without « Hungary», this is what we want from you shortly, Mrs Minister : explain to Portugal how these cases have happened! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Without demagogy, without the old talk of the tanks that one day arrived at the Avenue of Liberty, the nails in hand, conversation that leaves us all very sensitized, but that no longer tells anyone out there. Portugal is falling every day in the index of corruption, which destroys the state, kills trust and destroys our democracy. Today, we heard of Sá Carneiro himself, who said that «there is no democracy without corruption» Mrs. PSD Members of the Liberal Initiative, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the right has a duty to demand from this government more than words, more than talk, more than nails in your hand! You have the right, because it is the Portuguese who pay the taxes that sustain us,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u267	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u268	...that they pay our wages and that they support what we are today. Portuguese, we must demand responsibility for this government! And if they insist on the conversation of April 25, the ghosts of fascism, and whatever they want, we will demand another conversation, that of responsibility. Corruption never again, in Portugal! [[Ch's applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u269	In order to close the debate on the part of the Government, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u270	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by thanking the broad consensus in this House on what should be respect for the institutions, the separation of powers and also the clear notion that there is a legislative acquis that governs the incompatibilities and impediments of the holders of public and political positions. That is perhaps the best demonstration of the functioning of the institutions and, yes, democracy works, Mr Deputies, whether they want it or not. I would also like to say, Mr Artur Sovereign Andrade, that I can no longer agree with your statement. Yes, over the years democracy has also been built in the fight against corruption; it has also been built in more transparency, in which we could all be voted upon when we choose to come to these functions and be at the service of the Portuguese, because that is what is required of one Republic. And a decent Republic does what it has to do: discuss the laws, if any, on its own site; draw up the laws on its own site and, in the case of incompatibilities, it is up to the Assembly of the Republic to do so. In the fight against corruption, we all committed ourselves, over the years, and we took significant steps, in the last legislature, with the approval of the National Strategy for Combating Corruption. On the other hand, in this package, Member — it is good to remember, and I welcome the fact that he brought it to the debate — a diploma was also discussed on the extension of the declarative obligations of the holders of public and political positions, which was approved unanimously in this Assembly of the Republic in November 2021. The only Member who has missed this vote and who here today fills the chest and thickens the voice — allow me - this expression - on transparency, the need to do more, was Mr André Ventura. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u271	It was just one!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u272	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this Parliament allows us to say what we want, but there is one thing that is urgent to explain: misinformation and false facts. And a Member who, I say again, is a jurist has a greater obligation and responsibility, since he wants to speak to the benches and to go home, to read the opinions — and, in the end, I will even give him the opinion —...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u273	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u274	... because the opinion of the Advisory Council of the Attorney-General of the Republic, Mr. Member, in Part VI, page 29, states that, despite being talking about Law No 64 / 93, it was already in progress because it was adopted—not yet in force—the law of 2019. This opinion therefore applies to all cases which you have referred to here.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u275	Don't! Don't say that! That's not true! That's false information!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u276	But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let me finish. As much as it costs you, Mrs Deputies, the beauty of democracy allows the honourable Member to have had the right to say a lot of misgivings here and perhaps to have insulted here. [[Protests by CH Member Rita Matias.]] And it allows a Member to insult a former Governor and a Member who, I must say, recognises that, in an absolutely difficult period, he was next to the Portuguese in the struggle for the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u277	And what does the Minister say? Oh, my God! Why did he go out? It was so good, it could have continued! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u278	I reaffirm, ladies and gentlemen. Members, compliance with the law, the sense of opinions, conviction and trust in democratic institutions. And I end with a quote, which I could not fail to make in this debate—after these two hours— by Mitterrand: 'Freedom and transparency have disadvantages,...' — as the manipulation of information that brings us here today—... but the lack of transparency and democracy is paid at an infinitely higher price. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Protests by CH Member Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro.]] That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that the Government here will be to comply with the law, to provide clarification to Parliament...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u279	He didn't clarify anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u280	... and, every day, beat itself, yes, by democracy, by its institutions, because that is the only way we will serve the Portuguese. The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen will say whatever you want.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u281	Thank God! It's democracy!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u282	After this debate, it is clear what they wanted: not to discuss transparency. On the part of the Government, having concluded this debate, we will continue to work for the Portuguese at an absolutely demanding time in their lives, when it is necessary to continue to ensure that their incomes,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u283	Families first!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u284	... their jobs and their purchasing power are not lost. [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u285	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus closed the debate on the appeal to the Government. We are now going to move on to the voting period, saying goodbye to the government. I request the services to initiate the electronic quorum verification system. [[Pause.]] I wonder if any Member of Parliament or some Member of Parliament have not been able to register.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u286	Mr. President, I am not being able to register.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u287	You are now registered, Mrs. Deputy. Any more honourable Member or any other Member under the same conditions? [[Pause.]] There is no one else, I ask the services that advertise in the electronic framework the result of the quorum verification. The table records 206 Members, to whom more than one Member is added, totaling 207 Members present, so we have quorum and we shall proceed to the vote. The first discussion concerns the Draft Vote No 175 / XV / 1. a ( presented by the Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport ) — Unfortunately the death of footballer Fernando Chalana. For the reading of the draft vote, I give the floor to Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u288	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Last August 10th, at the age of 63, Fernando Chalana died, one of the giants of Portuguese football, who achieved an international dimension and an incomparable number of followers. Fernando Chalana was born on February 10, 1959, in Barreiro, having entered the Barreirense at the age of 14, where he soon stood out. at the age of 15 he is recruited to Sport Lisboa and Benfica where he has a meteoric ascent, becoming, at only 17 years of age, the youngest player ever to act in 1. the Portuguese Division. A record that remained in Portuguese football for two decades. Although his football career is indelibly identified with Benfica, having played there between 1974 and 1984, he is also remembered as a high representative of the country, through the games he played as a player of the national selection. In Sport Lisboa and Benfica, the emblem to which history will always be strongly linked, Chalana played 13 seasons, winning, between the periods 1974 - 1984 and 1987 - 1990, six National Championships, two Cups of Portugal, two Super Cups and three Cups of Honor. In 1982 / 83 he played the final two-handed UEFA Cup ( Union of European Football Associations ) against Anderlecht and helped, already in the final phase of his career — 1988 and 1990 — Sport Lisboa and Benfica to reach two finals of the European Champions Clubs Cup in 1988, against the Eindhoven PSV, and 1990, against AC Milan. In the 1984 European Championship, in France, its international dimension, evidenced throughout the competition, and in particular in the very disputed half-final between Portugal and France, inappropriate for cardiac ones and in which the Gauls eventually made the best of it, aroused the interest of Bordeaux, which would end by contracting. In France, he competed between 1984 and 1987, acknowledging his sporting qualities and the affection of his followers, who joined him as « Chalanix ». After Bordeaux he would return to Portugal and Benfica before going to the ‘The Belenenses’ Football Cube and end his career in the Star of Amadora in 1992 at the age of 33. In everyone's memory, his technique is disconcerting, his domain of the ball and his improvisation ability in front of his opponents. Later, he also developed a career as a coach: in the old layers, a passage as a main coach is highlighted by one of the historical and traditional landmarks of the capital, the Eastern Club of Lisbon, having still commanded the main team of Benfica, in phases of transition, as well as being an assistant coach at various times. Along with the younger layers, in Benfica's formation steps, it also ensured activity as a coach in the final phase of the career. By the genius he showed inside the lawns and by his humility outside the fields he will always be remembered as one of the greatest of national football and an example for all sports lovers. The Assembly of the Republic approves a vote of regret for Fernando Chalana's death and expresses sympathy to his family and to all those who deeply feel his absence. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u289	Let us then vote the deliberative part of the Voting Project No 175 / XV / 1. a ( presented by the Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport ) — Unfortunately the death of footballer Fernando Chalana. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, following the vote we have just taken, I would ask the House to keep a minute's silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We shall proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 85 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Programme for the reduction of water losses in public supply networks. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE, the PAN and the L and the PCP abstention.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 97 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PSD ) — Increase the reuse of treated waste water. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L and the PS abstention.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the project we voted on goes down to 11. the Commission. Let us now vote, in general, on Resolution Project No 208 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Programme to strengthen the storage capacity of the trees and increase public water reserves. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the CCP, the PAN and the L and the AE abstention.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 210 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PSD ) — artificial load of aquifers to enhance water efficiency. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL and the NAP and the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L.]] The project we just voted down to 11. the Commission. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, each President will have his manies, and I have this one, which, when voting is taking place, we must be focused on voting. I'm asking your attention, please. The general vote on draft resolution No 216 / XV / 1 is then followed. a ( PSD ) — Encourage green infrastructures and the installation of rainwater systems. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD, the CH, the IL, the BE, the PAN and the L and with abstentions from the PS and the CFP.]] The project we just voted down to 11. the Commission. We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 124 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Amends Decree-Law No 58 / 2005 of 29 December to promote the efficient use of water resources. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CFP were rejected, votes against the CH and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD, IL, BE and L.]] The general vote of Bill No 206 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Safeguards the efficient use of drinking water and obliges the use of water from wastewater treatment plants for the water of golf courses. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L were rejected.]] We now vote in general on Bill No 234 / XV / 1. a ( CFP ) — National plan for the structural prevention of the effects of drought and its monitoring. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected, votes against the CH, the PCP, the BE and the L and abstentions against the PSD and the NAP.]] The general vote of Bill No 336 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (NAP) — Strengthens the monitoring, control and assessment of the pollution of rivers located in international water regions by amending the Water Law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE, the PAN and the L and the PCP abstention.]] The general vote of Bill No 337 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PAN) — Change the legal framework of watershed management plans provided for in the Water Law, ensuring the existence of sustainable ecological flows and the mandatory forecast of measures to mitigate the effects of climate change and drought. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and IL, votes in favour of CH, BE, PAN and L and abstentions from the PSD and the CFP.]] We now vote in general on Bill No. 338 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Reduce to 6 % the VAT on services to ensure the water efficiency of dwellings by amending the VAT code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE, the PAN and the L and the PCP abstention.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 112 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends that the Government establish the obligation of recycling/reuse systems of grey water in new buildings and consider the eligibility of such systems for financial support through the Environmental Fund. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS, BE, PAN and L and with abstentions from PS, CH, IL and the CFP.]] Mrs. Members, this project is down to 11. the Commission. The general vote on draft resolution No 190 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (BE) — Recommends to the Government the public management of the Perimeter de Rega do Mira albueira and measures to safeguard water. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L were rejected.]] We are going to vote, in general, on draft resolution No 235 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Recommends to the Government the construction, modernisation and rehabilitation of irrigation systems. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L, votes against the CH and the IL and the abstention from the PSD.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 269 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to strengthen the national regadio. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE and the PAN were rejected, votes against the PS, the CH and the IL and abstentions against the PCP and the L.]] We now vote on the Resolution Project No. 266 / XV / 1. a ( Committee on European Affairs) — Opinion on the Proposal for a Council Directive establishing the system for the exercise of the right to vote and eligibility in elections to the European Parliament of citizens of the Union resident in a Member State of which they do not have nationality ( reformulation) COM ( 2021 ) 732 and the Proposal for a Council Directive laying down the rules for the exercise of the right to vote and eligibility in the elections of citizens of the Union resident in a Member State of which they do not have nationality ( reformulation ) COM ( 2021 ) 733. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, IL, PAN and L, votes against the CFP and abstentions of CH and BE.]] The general vote on the Bill No 25 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Extends the scope of the special system of expropriation and establishment of administrative services for the execution of projects integrated into the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme to projects covered by the Recovery and Resilence Plan. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS and the BE, votes against the PS, CH, IL and the PAN and abstentions of the PCP and L.]] The bill voted down to 6. the Commission. The general vote of Bill No 267 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (IL) — allows marketers of the liberalised natural gas market to have access to the retailer’s channel of last wholesale resource. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP, BE, PAN and L were rejected and votes against CH and IL.]] Then, in general, the Bill No. 314 / XV / 1 is voted. a (CH) — Ensure access by all marketers to regulated natural gas tariffs. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, PCP, BE, PAN and L were rejected, votes against the CH and the IL.]] The general vote of Bill No. 341 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PCP ) — Simplifies access to regulated energy tariffs and determines its continuity and the creation of regulated gas tariffs for storage and channelling. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS and IL and votes in favour of PSD, CH, PCP, BE, PAN and L.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 2 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PCP ) — Increase in national minimum wage. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE, NAP and L and the abstention from the CH.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 217 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government increase national minimum wage and public administration salaries. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE, NAP and L and the abstention from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u290	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u291	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u292	Mr President, it is to inform me that I will present a statement of vote on the last two initiatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u293	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The general vote on draft resolution No 247 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( BE ) — Support to students and requirements for student accommodation. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L were rejected.]] The general vote of Bill No 333 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( BE ) — Extraordinary complement to the social action grants of higher education. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected, votes against the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L and abstentions from the PSDP and from PS MP Eduardo Alves, Francisco Dinis, Miguel dos Santos Rodrigues, Miguel Matos, Pedro Anastácio and Tiago Soares Monteiro.]] We now vote in general on Bill No. 340 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Creation of an extraordinary complement to higher education scholarships, applicable to the school year of 2022 / 2023. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected, votes against the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L and abstentions from the PSDP and from PS MP Eduardo Alves, Francisco Dinis, Miguel dos Santos Rodrigues, Miguel Matos, Pedro Anastácio and Tiago Soares Monteiro.]] The general vote of Bill No 342 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PCP ) — Strengthen support for accommodation in higher education. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, votes against the CH, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L and abstentions from the IL and the deputies of the PS Eduardo Alves, Francisco Dinis, Miguel dos Santos Rodrigues, Miguel Matos, Pedro Anastácio and Tiago Soares Monteiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u294	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u295	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u296	Mr President, I would like to inform you that I will send a statement of vote to the Bureau on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Members of the Socialist Party who abstained from voting on these last three initiatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u297	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 343 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Allow autonomous taxation at a reduced rate of 10 % applicable to income relating to housing contracts concluded with higher education students. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CFP and the BE were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH and the NAP and abstentions against the IL and the L.]] Let us now vote on a request by L, requesting the Commission to be discharged without a 60-day vote of draft resolution No 250 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Recommends that the Government take urgent measures to support the housing of displaced higher education students and the creation of sub-used state-owned university residences. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Therefore, the draft resolution goes down to 8. the Commission under the conditions required. Mrs. Members, we shall generally vote on draft resolution No 256 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Recommends that the Government accelerate procedures for the construction of new university residences. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CFP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH, the IL, the BE and the NAP and the L abstention.]] The general vote of Bill No. 221 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PS ) — Ensures the maintenance of the protection of shops with history that have passed to NRAU until 31 December 2027, amending Law No 42 / 2017 of 14 June. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L, the IL votes against and the PS and the CH abstentions.]] This bill goes down to 6. the Commission. We shall proceed to the general vote of Bill No 236 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates an autonomous lease regime for economic, association and cultural activities. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE, NAP and L and the abstention from the CH.]] We now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 240 / XV / 1. a (CH) — For the agility of an extraordinary plan to support small and medium-sized wine producers. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH and the NAP and IL, the CFP, the BE and the L.]] Mrs. Members, it is now important to vote on a request by the PSD for a full vote on amendments 5 - C and 39 - C to the Proposal for a Law No 21 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 878 on access to banking and prudential supervision and Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 879 on recovery and resolution of credit institutions and investment firms. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the approval of the request, we shall then proceed to the vote on the rules of appeal in particular. As is customary, there is a period for the production of interventions, if the parliamentary groups intend to do so, for a maximum of 2 minutes for each parliamentary group, on the rules at issue. To speak, Mr. Hugo Carneiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u298	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD brings here the advocacy of these rules, because what we are going to approve today in the final text, or what will be put to the vote, is truly gruesome for non-professional investors. And non-professional investors are all retail customers of the Portuguese banks. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u299	We're talking about pensioners, we're talking about immigrants, we're talking about people who still have some savings capacity, even though the country is impoverishing socialist governance. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u300	The PS intends, with this proposal from investors, to allow the placement of high-risk products, which is in the interest of the banks that are placed, because they benefit from the capital ratios of the banks. In the case of bank resolution, it's the same thing as going to a grocery store and buying poisonous mushrooms. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u301	You risk selling ruined products to customers if there is a bank resolution. We do not let this become clear and therefore we propose that the PSD proposal be approved, which is a text consensualized with the Liberal Initiative, because it is much more protective of investors. The PS intends to allow, with only €10 000 investment, these products to be placed on investors corresponding to 10 % of an investment portfolio, when what we propose is that this investment be at least € 125 000, in line and closer to what the Banco de Portugal also proposes. Furthermore, the PS proposal is sui generis, because the rest of the European countries generally did not follow this methodology of transposition of these directives, which is highly penalizing for investors. A second plea that we make concerns the transparency and defence of taxpayers: it was clear in the Commission of Inquiry to the New Bank that it is essential that there is a contract for the sale of a settled institution or negotiations with the European Commission translated into Portuguese. And it is essential that this information be communicated to Parliament and the Court of Auditors, even if it is subject to a duty of secrecy, at the end of 30 days. Finally, Mr President, we propose a point of vote so that, if there is any point that the PS disagrees, it can vote against this point. But in those who are fundamental, such as the communication to Parliament and the Court of Auditors, have the hombreity, which is what the Portuguese deserve, to vote in favour. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u302	To speak by the Socialist Party, Mr. Miguel Cabrita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u303	Mr. President and Mr. Members, this diploma fulfils a European obligation but, above all, allows very significant progress in the prudential supervision of banking activities and in the recovery and resolution processes of banks. They are welcome advances in sensitive matters and it is important to have as broad a consensus as possible. The PS has been particularly active in the process of discussion in the specialty, both to present its own proposals, to improve and to vote on proposals from other parties. And so we voted in favour of about two dozen opposition proposals, including 12 PSD proposals, not having been the case with any of those who are now under discussion, and I will explain why. in one of the cases, we are in favour of improving transparency and strengthening the means to monitor banking resolution processes, but we do not have the conditions to follow proposals on which they prevent legitimate doubts as to whether European rules are complied with, whether they have frameworks in European rules and can therefore introduce entropies into future processes of this kind. Volunteering isn't always a good counselor!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u304	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u305	But as far as the protection of small non-professional investors is concerned, the PS does not follow this PSD proposal for a simple reason: the PS proposal goes further, it is more protective of small investors and their savings than the PSD proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u306	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u307	The European Directive basically allows two approaches. One of the approaches, which is followed by the PSD and the Liberal Initiative, is to establish a minimum value of access to high-risk financial products but does not prevent the total savings of people from being invested in high-risk products from meeting this limit. But the directive allows another approach, which we propose to follow, which is the following: in addition to setting a threshold, in absolute value, it states that, from the portfolio of securities of a small non-professional investor, only a part can be invested in high-risk financial products. With our proposal, only €100,000 portfolios, in line with what the Banco de Portugal recommends, can access these products, but only 10 % of these portfolios...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u308	It's 10 000 €!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u309	... can be invested and applied in high-risk products.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u310	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u311	That is why we do not vote for the PSD proposal and that is why, if the PSD is so concerned about small non-professional investors...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u312	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u313	I shall conclude, Mr. President. As I said, that is why, if the PSD is so concerned with small non-professional investors — pensioners, migrants and others — then follow the PS proposal and adopt an innovative methodology to protect small investors, so that there are no repeated cases like those of the past. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u314	In order to intervene by the Liberal Initiative, Mrs Carla Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u315	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I shall focus on Article 138. o-BR and in the advocacy of the proposal — a text consensualized with the PSD — on the conditions for the marketing of eligible credits, inter alia, of credit institutions in resolution, by non-professional investors. If this discussion often seems to affect the presumption of investor information capacity, what it seems often to forget is that the directives we are transposing and what we are talking about here are resolution entities and a type of investment that, in a recovery grade, are at the base of the pyramid. This amendment aims at a path envisaged by the directive which has given flexibility to the Member States, as an alternative to the PS proposal, which once again, in our opinion, chooses to complicate and pursue a path which is not common practice in the other Member States, is not recommended by EBA (European Banking Authority), is not recommended by the Banco de Portugal, and still a few days ago at the hearing the Director-General of the Resolution Fund proposed the alternative of this text which we are here to advocate. Well, this is wrong. It is a complex matter to deal with these two minutes, but I would also like to point out that, once again, this speciality process has been carried out in a short time, again, the delay of the government and the rush of the PS were bad advisers, because these issues should have been discussed more. It is also regrettable, despite what they said about the adoption of the amendments, that the most fundamental ones had not been adopted. Several contributions from entities, many of whom the Liberal Initiative spoke, such as those of the ASF ( Insurance Supervisory Authority and Pension Funds ) and the Competition Authority, were not approved in committee without any justification. But I would also like to make just three points, as the bad examples of the PS proposal: for example, starting with the need for verification of something that is considered to be close to utopian, say! — in other words, the investor must provide full information to financial intermediaries. How is this, in addition to being very controversial, likely? Oh, my God! As for the 10 % that you have just mentioned here, it is also assumed that the financial intermediary has the ability to assess the investor's overall portfolio. Look at this difficulty! And finally, omissions cause legal risks, such as the supervision of the financial intermediaries concerned. That is why our lawyer proposal — yes! — would protect investors more. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u316	Mr Rui Afonso has the floor to speak on arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u317	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: The implementation of measures to defend the transparency of taxpayers, where a bank resolution involves the realization or assumption of public expenditure, is of the greatest importance, especially because of the events that have occurred in the past and which still haunt our days. Portugal had two cases of bank resolution : the Banco Internacional do Funchal ( Banco Internacional do Funchal ), which failed at the end of 2015, in which the Resolution Fund was called to constitute the Oitante company ; and the BES ( Banco Espírito Santo ), a disastrous resolution of a bank for which, at the time of the sale announcement in March 2017, Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa, assured all Portuguese that there would be no direct or indirect impact on public accounts and new charges for taxpayers. The fact is that over five years ago the New Bank has already consumed more than EUR 3, EUR 4 billion of public money, with capital injections that started in 2018 and continued until 2021, the year in which it had a profit of more than EUR 184 million and still requested 209 million at the bottom of the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u318	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u319	With more than 200 legal proceedings under way as a result of the BES resolution, there is a clear likelihood that the State will lose more than EUR 2000 million. We are fully aware that much of the losses related to the BES / New Bank case could have been avoided if the State had an active voice in the management and control of the public money used in the resolved institution. The sale of credit in portfolios, where good and bad assets were mixed in a shaky way, was a decisive step towards disaster. The huge size of the contingent capital mechanism in the amount of EUR 3, EUR 9 billion, created at the time of the sale of the New Bank to the Lone Star fund and which allowed an accelerated cleaning of the bank's balance sheet, could only result in substantial losses, with a clear objective of protecting the interests of the American shareholder rather than the public interest. In short, when taxpayers are called to inject millions of euros in the resolution of banking institutions, the role of the State cannot be reduced to a mere technical or supervisory intervener. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u320	Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u321	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since the end of 2007, and especially with the 2008 financial crisis, which the parties in this House had to clarify where they stood in relation to the private bank, their operations and ways of operating, their privileges or absence of them, etc. The vast majority took refuge in the argument that the problem comes from certain bankers and that regulation would solve everything, thus betting on this farce of regulation and supervision that has become tragic and ineffective. One thing is certain: in the next financial crisis, the banks will be in a state of incapacitated and many — some of which even authentic megabanks that can contaminate the whole world financial system — will fall or need a rescue. This means that the farce of supervision and regulation can only stand while banks are not succumbing to us. When the next ones fall, they will have to redouble and harden the speech against certain bankers. The essential of the measures now mentioned at the legislative level is evidence that political power in the European Union continues to insist on the disastrous options that have been imposed so far. The proposals for amendments which are now before the plenary do not change the fundamental nature of this registration. We will accompany those who compete for greater transparency of the processes and greater clarity in the information, but we do not think that the timely solutions to the implementation of the banking resolution procedures — also mentioned in this vote — are the structural response to the underlying political problems that this bill shows. You can only by definition improve what is good, and this is a deeply negative political option, as the concrete experience there is to demonstrate it. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u322	We shall now proceed to the vote on the rules of law in the speciality. We begin by voting on proposal 5 - C, tabled by the PSD and IL, replacing Article 138. o-BR of the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies, approved by Decree-Law No 298 / 92 of 31 December, as set out in Article 9. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE and the NAP and abstentions of the CFP and the L.]] It was as follows: « 138. o-BR Minimum nominal amount for the issue and sale of instruments 1 — The issue and sale of own funds instruments, in this case to professional or non-professional investors, with the exception of Tier 1 principal own funds instruments, subordinated eligible loans and debt instruments provided for in Article 8. o-B of Decree-Law No 199 / 2006 of 25 October is due to a minimum nominal amount of € 125 000. 2 — It shall be obliged to carry out the adequacy assessment provided for in Article 314. the -A of the Securities Code, irrespective of the type of service provided, the financial intermediary which intervenes in the sale of equity instruments subject to a minimum nominal amount in accordance with the above paragraph. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u323	The proposal 39 - C, submitted by the PSD, is followed by the addition of Article 12. o -A to the bill. Let us begin by voting Article 12 ( 1 ). o -A. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE and the NAP and the IL and the L abstentions.]] It was as follows: 1 — Where the resolution of an institution takes place in accordance with the rules laid down in the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies, approved by Decree-Law No 298 / 92 of 31 December and other applicable legislation, and involving the realization or assumption of public expenditure, the resolution authority shall always have the right to participate with voting rights in the management of the institution resolved and to unilaterally define reasonable and proportionate control systems of acts of use of public money, or involving them, to safeguard the public interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u324	We shall then vote on Article 12 ( 2 ). o -A. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the CH.]] It was as follows: 2 — Agreements of any kind concluded by the Portuguese State or the resolution authority or the regulators of the financial sector between themselves and with the institutions of the European Union, from now on within the framework of financing measures with State funds or involving State aid and also the commitments made between those with third parties under a process of selling social shares of the resolved entity have an official version in Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u325	We now vote on Article 12 ( 3 ). The same proposal. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the CH.]] It was as follows: 3 — The documents referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be submitted to the Court of Auditors no later than 30 days after their appointment by all the parties involved.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u326	We turn to the vote in Article 12 ( 4 ). o -A. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the CH.]] It was as follows: 4 — The competent committee of the Assembly of the Republic shall receive within 30 days the documents referred to in paragraph 3 for the purposes associated with the exercise of its supervisory and political scrutiny powers.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u327	We shall proceed to the vote on Article 12 ( 5 ). o -A. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the CH.]] It was as follows: 5 — The information duties referred to in the above paragraphs shall be fulfilled, even if there is a classified secret by the Ministry of Finance, in the representation of the Government, by the financial regulators or by the resolution authority, as applicable, without prejudice to the subjecting of the beneficiaries of such information to the legal rules of secrecy applicable to supervisors.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u328	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall then proceed to the overall final vote on the final text on the proposal for a law. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against the PSD, the PCP and BE and abstentions against the CH, IL, the PAN and the L.]] Mr. Hugo Carneiro is asking for a word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u329	Mr President, it is to announce that we will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u330	Be registered. We are now voting on the final text submitted by the Committee on Budgets and Finance on the Proposal for a Law No 36 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to transfer to municipalities an additional municipal social fund specific subsidy in 2022. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Education and Science on draft resolutions Nos 188 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Recommends that the Government review the financing model of higher education establishments and 189 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Recommends that the Government assess the legal regime of higher education institutions. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CH, the IL, the BE and the NAP and the PS, the PCP and the L.]] Mrs Paula Santos is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u331	Mr President, it is to inform that the CFP will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u332	Be registered. The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Public Administration, Planning of the Territory and Local Power, on draft resolution No 207 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government approve a sustainable mobility programme for public administration for the period 2023 - 2028. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the PS and the CH abstentions.]] We shall vote on the opinions of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, and I call on Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read them.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u333	Mr President, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa — Judge of the Family and Minors of the Barrier - Judge 1, Regulation of Parental Responsibilities No 1685 / 21.0T8BRR, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Fernanda Velez ( PSD ) to present a statement as a witness within the scope of the relevant cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u334	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] You may proceed, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u335	Mr President, the request of the Public Prosecutor's Office — Procurator's Office of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Viseu, DIAP, Section de Mangualde, Inquiry 629 / 22.6T9VIS, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr José Rui Cruz ( PS ) to give written testimony as a witness within the scope of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-21.u336	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We have thus come to the end of the vote and our agenda. The next plenary meeting is on Wednesday, October 26, and has as its only point of view the overall assessment of Law Nos 37 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Law of the Great Options for 2022 - 2026 and 38 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2023. Very good weekend to all. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 14 minutes.]]
