ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late. We already have quorum and all the parliamentary groups duly represented, so I declare open to the session. [[It was 15 hours and 3 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the galleries to the public. Today we have a long journey ahead of us. First of all, Mrs. Palmira Maciel will please read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, announce that they have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, Bills No. 358 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) and 360 / XV / 1. a ( BE).
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u3	We will then enter the agenda, the first of which concerns the general assessment of the Bill No 25 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Extends the scope of the special system of expropriation and establishment of administrative services for the execution of projects integrated into the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme to projects covered by the Recovery and Resilence Plan. To present the bill, Mr. Secretary of State for Regional Development, Isabel Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u4	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Members: The Recovery and Resilience Plan ( PRR ) is part of the government's strategy to get out of the pandemic crisis and lay the foundations for the country's sustainable economic growth. Its financial envelope will enable us to implement reforms and implement investments, leverage public and private investment for the next decade and continue the convergence effort with the European Union. This plan was designed with the aim of responding to a triple challenge: to control the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic, to recover from the economic and social crisis it generated and to launch bridges for a more prosperous future, with fewer inequalities, more sustainable and more cohesion. The PRR is also aligned with the relevant pillars of the European 2030 strategy: green and digital transition; smart, sustainable and inclusive growth; social and territorial cohesion; health and resilience, with a view to increasing reaction capacity and crisis preparedness; and policies for the next generation, children and young people. The projects provided for in the PRR are therefore of undeniable national public interest, which is why the Government submits this bill to the Assembly of the Republic, with a view to speeding up its implementation, allowing greater flexibility and speed of expropriative procedures and the establishment of administrative services applicable to the PRR projects where necessary. This is not unpublished since in September 2020 the Assembly of the Republic authorised the Government to create a special regime for these matters in order to ensure the full implementation of a set of priority interventions integrated into the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme ( PEES ). at that time, this House took into account not only the importance and urgency of carrying out the investments of the PEES as the positive impacts that would then come to the Portuguese economy and finance. It also understood the constraints identified in these procedures, which could delay or make projects unfeasible. The current bill is intended only to extend the application of this special scheme, accepted for the PEES, to the implementation of projects integrated into the RPP. The purpose is only one : to provide the Government with adequate and proportionate means to agile and speedy action, taking into account the short-term set by the European Commission for the implementation and implementation of the RPP. I recall that what concerns the European Commission, in the verification of the implementation of this programme, is the timely implementation of all the frameworks and targets and not the financial implementation as usual in the other European funds. There are already added challenges to the implementation of these investments the very strict timetable and the conjunctural effects of the current context that we cannot control, such as inflation, the price of materials and the cost of labour. It is our obligation to avoid, at all costs, other obstacles or blockades. The inclusion of PRR projects in the special scheme of expropriations and administrative services provided for by the PEES is therefore justified, extending its duration until 30 June 2026, when reforms and investments have to be carried out. What we propose is not an amendment to the Expropriations Code, much less that the legitimate rights of the owners be disregarded or suppressed. We only propose that, for a limited period of time, for a set of investments already defined, and similar to the special arrangements that have already been approved in this House, the expropriations of the buildings and the rights necessary for the construction, extension, rehabilitation or improvement of equipment, networks and infrastructure in the framework of the RPP investments may be considered as public utility and with an urgent nature, with the guarantee that the special scheme will only be applied to the extent necessary and where there is no alternative for the implementation of the projects already identified. Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Members: Full and timely implementation of the investments provided for in the RPP is a priority for the country. I call, therefore, for the commitment of this plenary, of all political forces, to this bill. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u5	The Secretary of State has five requests for clarification, to which I assume she answers in a bloc.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u6	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u7	The first request for clarification belongs to Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto of the IL, who has the floor for this purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u8	Mr President, Secretary of State, this bill aims to exceptionally extend the expropriation process to the PRR one, already exceptional. However, the Liberal Initiative has serious doubts about its constitutionality, doubts, indeed, that we have already shared in the past. However, this demonstrates two things. On the one hand, it demonstrates some legislative incompetence on the part of those who consider that the current expropriation mechanism does not serve. It is that if the current expropriation law does not serve, then proposals should be made to change it. But instead of putting forward proposals to amend the current law, they simply continue to extend exceptional regimes, as if what is not fair in normal times would become just for European funds alone. This also reveals how the PS views the right of ownership, in its entirety: only as a further obstacle to its plans for the country. But it is the opposite: private property is one of the fundamental vectors of any developed liberal democracy, it is not something that can easily be placed and arranged when there is a hurry to implement whatever it is, it is something that deserves to be respected in all circumstances, because it is the basis of development of any economy. Therefore, creating exceptional regimes that further question the right of ownership in the country is not something we can follow. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u9	For a request for clarification, Mr Filipe Melo, of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, now has the floor. [[Pause.]] The honourable Member informs me that he will make an intervention rather than a request for clarification. All right. I would like to ask Mrs Inês de Sousa Real if she is registered for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u10	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u11	So you have the floor to make your request for clarification, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present, Madam Secretary of State, in fact with this proposal, the Government has asked for another blank check for a regime that should be absolutely extraordinary and exceptional. It almost seems that now, suddenly, the PRR turned a sacrosanct who can pass over any other legal regime! Open... How is it that a government which does not even have an inventory of its own real estate, when we have a serious housing crisis, to which the PRR also has to respond, or which, for example, does not have the forest register ready, so that we can effectively fight fires, and there has also already been talked about in the matter of expropriation — whether there is confidence in a proposal that almost brings us back to the time of the other woman, in which there were expropriations, and with which we can indeed pass over a fundamental right, such as the right to property, through a Simplex for which, in any way, they have already been making their way with the previous legislative amendment, but which is only unilateral from the guarantistic point of view, to the State and not to private property? Therefore, I ask what confidence we can have, taking into account what the State itself does not have, which is knowledge of its own vast heritage and the purpose of it. [[Congratulations from the Members of IL Bernardo Blanco and Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u13	What happened? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u14	Signed this historic moment,... [[Laughing.]] ... is followed by the reply of the Secretary of State for Regional Development, since the requests for clarification were after all only two. Mrs. Secretary of State Isabel Ferreira, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u15	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what is at stake is not changing the Expropriations Code, but rather a proposal for expropriations and administrative services, within the framework of PRR projects, to be of public utility and with an urgent nature. The urgent expropriations are already provided for in the Expropriations Code and, therefore, what we are doing is just prolonging the special regime for these PRR projects. The rights of interested parties, as I said, will only be affected to the extent strictly necessary and proportionately and adequately in view of the objectives to be achieved, which are, I repeat, the fulfilment of the RPP targets and the implementation of the respective projects. This is not a new figure, we are not changing an existing code, we are simply assigning the emergency character to projects already identified under the PRR, in fact, a figure already existing in the Expropriations Code.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u16	We now turn to the speeches, the first of which will be for the PS Parliamentary Group, to this end Mr Nuno Fazenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u17	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: As you know, Portugal will benefit from the greatest volume of European funds in the coming years. in this context, there are three challenges. First of all, I refer to the challenge of selectivity. We must ensure that European funds support transformative projects, based on good selection processes. in this sense, the competitive and competitive logic that has presided over various PRR contests, as is the case of Mobilizing Agendas, with strong business investment, is the right option for greater selectivity. The second challenge is that of rigour and transparency. in this area, it is essential that the management and supervisory bodies of the European Funds be equipped with means and capacity to act. This is what has been done and must be continued and strengthened, for example the fact that the General Inspection of Finance ( IGF ), which is the audit and control body of all European funds in Portugal, has been strengthened with more than 20 inspectors. Furthermore, according to Mr Inspector General, which we have recently heard here in Parliament, "this is the most important human resource strengthening that the IGF has had in the last 20 years". Therefore, this is a clear example of the commitment of the Portuguese State to rigour, scrutiny and transparency in the application of European funds in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is this way of strengthening the institutions that must be continued and continued. The third and final challenge is that of speed — speed! — in implementation. Together with the various programmes and funds, Portugal will have at its disposal over the next few years a value of more than EUR 60 billion, which means that we must move from 2000 to EUR 3000 million to EUR 6 billion of annual implementation. This is a major challenge, all of which calls for: the government, the entities that manage the funds, the entities that control the funds and also the Assembly of the Republic, to monitor the implementation of the European funds. That being the case, in this context and in this plenary, it is important to ask whether or not the Portuguese State has fulfilled its obligations with the European Commission? The answer is unequivocal: yes! In Portugal 2020, the Portuguese State has been in the leadership of the countries with the greatest implementation in the European Union, particularly when we talk about programmes with the highest financial allocation, with 80 % implementation rate; Portugal 2030 is signed and approved — we were the first in Europe — and we are already implementing funds from this programme, on account of the extraordinary mechanism for the anticipation of the funds, with support and warnings in several areas; finally, we have the PRR. On the PRR, it should first be mentioned that Portugal, in the first assessment to which it was subjected, had a positive assessment on the part of the European Commission, as it met all the targets and milestones to which it was bound in the right time. On 30 September, a new payment request was submitted, which was accompanied by a favourable opinion of the RPP Audit and Control Board. It was therefore done what was required at the right time. Finally, we have a PRR running. at present, we already have 55 % of the RPP approved and implemented on the ground. Yes, we understand the desire to have a greater implementation, but the implementation of the European funds requires procedures in accordance with the law, for the sake of rigour and transparency. The management of European funds is not to pass blank checks. In the case of private projects, it requires open and competitive competitions, so that everyone can apply and select the best. And for this, there is time for promoters to present their projects, time for analysis, time for execution, and that is what has been done. In the case of public investments identified, such as the Port metro, legal procedures are required, such as environmental impact studies or international public competitions. We cannot therefore accept the implementation of funds without selectivity, without rigor or without compliance with the law. Portugal must continue to be a good example in implementing European funds, as it has been over the last few years and recognised by the European institutions. However, it is essential, of course, to have more conditions for greater speed. And the bill that the Government has tabled here today and has explained precisely this: more speed. This is an initiative which has taken on the favourable opinion of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities and the Mission Structure « Recover Portugal » and which also has the opinion of the Superior Council of the Public Ministry, having not been placed any reservation. We therefore believe that this is a measure in the right direction, that is, in order to contribute to greater agility and speed in execution, a plan that we all certainly defend. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u18	Mr Filipe Melo has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u19	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs. Members: The Government advocates the need to study the scope of the projects included in the RPP. So far, everything is very good and we all know the need and importance of these projects. However, this cannot constitute an attack on private property, which is what we are talking about here. This is an attack on private property.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u20	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u21	And it wasn't the absolute majority of the Socialist Party, certainly they wouldn't do this in the way they're thinking about doing and that they're certainly going to make it, the fruit of that same majority. I must tell you that, in many cases, we know, they will invoke national interest in removing small land from those people who little or nothing else have to be those lands, compensate them as they want and give them a tip to expropriate them and use what they want.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u22	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u23	But let me also tell you the following, Madam Secretary of State: what is going to happen is not the best of both worlds, but, yes, two different worlds. There will be expropriations for those who have a pink militant card and there will be other expropriations.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u24	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u25	And I assure you that whoever has this little militant card, whoever has that pink card in his pocket will be compensated for the weight of gold. [[Congrats from the CH.]] They will argue that those lands are of extreme importance to pass the highway, to pass the TGV (high speed train) and will be compensated for the weight of gold, while on the street next to the back road, who has an identical land will receive a poor compensation for their expropriation. Let us wait to see if there will or will not be any difference between the values to be paid for the same plots of land to the honourable Members. Engineers and Mrs. Socialist Doctors and Manuel, Maria, Joaquina — nothing against names — who designate the common Portuguese...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u27	...and that they will be mistreated and very badly paid for the lands that belong to them. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mrs. Government members, if the Socialist Party wanted — and well — to execute the PRR with head, trunk and members, did what it had to do: an early study, a careful and rigorous analysis and not « on the knee», as is your habit,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u28	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u29	...to protect those from habit and to penalize the weakest. This is the socialist dictatorship that we have been accustomed to and, with this process, will not continue to deceive us. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u30	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, now speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Deputy Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Secretary of State for Regional Development: The debate we have been holding today is not just a debate on the extension of the scope of the special regime of expropriation, it is also a debate on the recovery and resilience plan, the famous PRR, which presents us with a perfect portrait of socialist governance. It is the portrait of a government that, not having carried out, in the last seven years, the repeatedly promised public investment, Budgeting behind Budget, makes the PRR not an instrument of transformation of the economy—as required—but a public investment plan announced, and never implemented. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u32	It is the portrait of a government that, in the last electoral campaign, transformed the PRR into a deputised plan to buy votes. [[PSD applause.]] It was the time when promises of the distribution of millions of euros were raining, but they were not for everyone, because, as the Prime Minister then warned, in the Secretary-General's clothing of the Socialist Party, the millions of bazouca could not be delivered, and I quote, "to whom every day the government fights", which is like who says that only the authorities who would be won by the Socialist Party would have made it easier for those millions. The PRR is also the portrait of a government that saves itself only with the money of the European Union, which dreams of the money of the European Union, which sighs for the money of the European Union. That is why this Government was so proud of having been from the first countries to deliver this document to the European bodies and has never been tired of repeating and saying that the money would quickly reach businesses and the economy. No, Madam Secretary of State, you're not here! The reality is another and there is no rhetoric that can mislead the overwhelming distance that goes between the promises of the socialist government and reality. And reality, according to the Operational Situation Point,... The speaker displayed the document he mentioned. ... updated on 28 September of the current year, is that of the 16, 4 billion euro of the PRR, only ridiculous and laughable payments of 824 million euros, I repeat, 824 million euros. [[PSD applause.]] And the companies, the Secretary of State, have reached only 0, 8 %! I will repeat: 0, 8 % of the appropriations allocated to these companies have arrived! It's too bad, it's too bad, Mr Nuno Fazenda! This framework is no consequence nor will it be so changed or resolved with what the Government is proposing today, i.e. to extend the scope of the special system of expropriation and establishment of administrative services, provided for in the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme, to projects inherent to the PRR, proposed now, with which we obviously do not, for the same reasons that we did not, in the past, accompany the creation of this special scheme. It says the Government, and said the Secretary of State, that by this way, more speed will be allowed in relation to expropriative procedures and the establishment of administrative services in the framework of projects inherent to the PRR. Mr Secretary of State, we have no doubt that this will be the case and that this effect will be achieved. But at what cost? Eliminating the phase of attempted acquisition through private law, eliminating the right of the contradictory of the expropriate and, practically, implementing the declaration of public utility with the simple approval of a plant of the site...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u33	Venezuela! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u34	... or with a map with the identification of the areas. In other words, the Government has looked only at the interests of the State, disregarding, at all, what is the interest of the expropriate. Mr Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Members : It should be recalled that we are faced with an almost unilateral decision to expropriate and that it can only, of course, be challenged in administrative dispute, which is particularly worrying when we all know that there are thousands, thousands of small plot owners who simply do not have or have financial conditions to fight against the State years and years in the end. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u35	As we have always said, the Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Members, expropriating or constituting services is already by itself an exceptional and urgent act, regulated in the Expropriations Code, and therefore it is not understood that the Government further restricts, in an absolutely disproportionate way, private property, creating a regime of exception to the exception of expropriation. Mr Secretary of State, Mr. President, Mrs. Members: Not all purposes justify the means and in this proposal do not justify them. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u36	Mr President, while you were speaking, Mr Nuno Fazenda has written to ask you for clarification, but you do not have time to answer. I therefore ask Mr Nuno Fazenda whether he intends to maintain the request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u37	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u38	You then have the floor, Mr President, to that end.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u39	Mr President, it is another clarification note. Mr President, I do not know whether you know, if you have experience, whether you have the minimum knowledge of how European funds work, but the fact is that, in the case of private investment, related to companies, they have to comply with open, competitive public tenders. Companies have to have time to submit their applications, institutions have to analyze and then have to open up the projects. It is with the execution of the projects which are paid to companies. And that is what is being done with the projects approved in the Mobilizing Agendas, with 700 million euros in the decarbonization of industry. Therefore, the PRR is on the ground. Now we must have the notion — who has a minimum knowledge of European funds — that implementation in the first year takes its time so that projects can then go to the ground. I think a good reading of some bibliography would help a little to understand how European funds are being implemented, and we are in the right direction in this area, with scrutiny and transparency. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u40	Mrs. Members, today, we are all very cooperative, and it is good, because in the meantime the Liberal Initiative has given time to the PSD, which thus has the opportunity to respond to Mr Nuno Fazenda's request for clarification. Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira has the floor then.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u41	Mr President, Mr Nuno Fazenda, thank you for the question you put to me, but it was not the PSD who said that the money would quickly reach the companies, it was the government, it was the Socialist Party! [[PSD applause.]] And what reality shows us is exactly the opposite! And it's statistical reality! I will read you the Operational Situation Point « Recover Portugal ». The speaker again displayed the document he mentioned. It's an official document, it's not the Democratic Social Party! Planned cash in funds allocated to enterprises: EUR 3, EUR 238 billion. How much money has it reached companies so far? There are 26 million euros, only and so alone.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u42	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government brings to the Assembly a proposal to extend the special regime of expropriation and establishment of administrative services for the implementation of projects under the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme for the implementation of projects under the Recovery and Resilience Programme, justifying, and I quote, that « it will enhance the speediest and fastest implementation of this programme, allowing greater flexibility and speed at the level of expropriative procedures and the establishment of administrative services ». Efficiency and efficiency, transparency and rigour must be present in the procedures throughout the Public Administration. These are too important questions to be dealt with in a vulva and casuistic manner, depending on the momentary criteria. If it is considered that there are constraints that create entropies in the realization of investments that are relevant, it would be important for a comprehensive and profound assessment of the aspects, in particular, that, within the framework of the procedures, can be improved, with the aim of always safeguarding the public interest. Therefore, it would make sense to find non-harmful solutions of State interest, with adequate technical support, effective and transparent and that would allow the development and implementation of projects and investments important to the country, not restricted to the PRR, and may also include these projects, but going beyond this.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u44	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u45	This is the fundamental issue that we are debating here today, and it is a debate that we have already held in the Assembly of the Republic. The government always has proposals in the perspective of exceptional regimes. There is no question of the need to be able to assess and adopt procedures that may be more appropriate in the Public Administration, obviously obeying the principles of effectiveness, transparency and rigour. Now, if there are difficulties, if there are constraints, they affect not only these projects, but many others,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u46	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u47	... that are also important for our development and for the realization of public investments.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u48	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u49	Therefore, what makes sense is that difficulties and constraints are removed in a broader way, but I reiterate, always obeying the principles that must be present in the Public Administration, effectiveness, transparency and rigour.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u50	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u51	The implementation of the RPP is indeed very low. There are delays and difficulties in the implementation of already committed investments, difficulties related to the governance of the management model, but also related to the lack of technical design, planning and implementation teams in various areas of the Public Administration. We have warned of these problems, resulting from the impoverishment of public administration services, as a result of the political choice of various governments. Today, the Public Administration has no technical capacity, in different dimensions and areas of intervention, and the result is in sight. This is also a matter that requires intervention and investment by the Government in strengthening the capacity of the Public Administration, in the allocation and establishment of technical teams that effectively enable us to advance and implement investments that are important in our country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u52	To close the debate...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u53	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u54	Mr. Rui Tavares wants to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u55	Then, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u56	After the end of the debate it is impossible, Mr. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u57	I am sorry, Mr President, I had not yet registered and I thought that the Left Block would use the time it had, which is why I wanted to signal that it would intervene later.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u58	But there are no more inscriptions, so...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u59	So, Mr President, as there are no entries, I take this opportunity to register directly. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u60	But if you want so much to know what the Left Block has to say, we can use the time.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u61	Mrs Mariana Mortágua would also like to sign up?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u62	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u63	Please, Mrs Deputy, but there are Secretaries of the Bureau to receive Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Laughing.]] Mr Rui Tavares, you have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Freeman.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u64	Mr President, I apologize for letting the registration period pass by telephone. What we are discussing here is the Government's bill that I was rapporteur in the Committee on Economics, Public Works, Planning and Housing. I must say that, in itself, it makes sense, since it extends a regime that was already special — to a financial stabilization plan created within the pandemic — to what is its natural sequence at European level, which is the application of the next generation EU funds in Portugal, PRR. In itself, it is not a major reform, nor does it, in my view, have the defects which I have already heard that can be attributed to it: neither in the choice of the recipients of the funds — this happens in some Member States of the European Union, is under investigation, and some are even allies of those who make the accusations — nor, on the other hand, in any way, on all the administrative details that need to be dealt with in these cases. I think there is a big issue, and that we will have to answer during the State Budget legislation for 2023 and subsequent, which is whether the appropriations are planned to provide fair compensation to those who are expropriated, and that is the question I would address to the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u65	So much just for that!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u66	I ask questions, I don't just make insinuations! [[CH protests and L-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u67	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block. [[Continuation of CH protests and L counterprotests.]] Mrs. Members, this ritual that is being established does not have any kind of regiment coverage.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u68	No one else!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u69	The order of speeches is successive, there is no interlocutory between interventions provided for in the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Mariana Mortágua, please use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u70	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members : « Over all private property weighs a social mortgage ». [[Mr Pedro dos Santos Frazão's laughs.]] The citation is of little-suspected source and was chosen by José Manuel Pureza, when this debate was held in 2020. Our position has not changed since then. We continue to understand that the conditions for structural public investment, concrete works that have already been identified, without prejudice, as has already been said, of the need for a more comprehensive regime, should be simplified. We should not live by extension, by exceptional regime in exceptional terms, when we know that the country needs, and will continually need structural works, investments that will always need a regime of expropriation that is appropriate to the urgency and need of these same investments. [[What about Robles?]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u71	I would like to emphasize a warning that has been left to us by the Order of Engineers, which I think has not yet been mentioned, which has to do with the entities that are empowered to make the evaluations for expropriation purposes. If there are doubts as to the value of the compensation to which these expropriations give rise, then these doubts must be reflected in the best way, not only to harm private persons, but also not to harm the State, and that is the warning which makes the Order of Engineers. These doubts should be reflected in the choice of evaluators and, in this case, the Order of Engineers speaks to us, in particular, in the possibility of harming the interests of the State in this process. The rest, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it will certainly not be due to lack of legislative framework that the Government will justify, or will attempt to shoot Parliament, its inability to execute the PRR. If the Government believes that it has to have the appropriate legislative framework, it will. Afterwards, the responsibilities for the delay in these investments lie, and will certainly apply only to the Executive. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u72	For an intervention, Mr Filipe Melo of the Czech Republic has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u73	Mr President, I would just like to make a brief speech to Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, who replied, and well, to the socialist bench, in the following sense: he should be careful to make such a statement, because his party, in the Azores, in the Standing Committee of the Legislative Assembly, voted favourably in accordance with this bill. Therefore, Mr. Deputy, be careful of the statements you make in this House and first look into your house.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u74	That's how you know the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u75	Madam Secretary of State, I should like to tell you that the fact that this bill is covered by positive opinions from ANAFRE ( National Fregues Association ), the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities and the Mission Structure « Recover Portugal » does not scare us at least: it is enough to see who presides over these organs and the color they represent. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u76	Therefore, they excuse bringing the favorable opinions of these associations. In conclusion, Madam Secretary of State, rather than this bill, I would suggest that you change to the current ‘Venezullization Process’ chapter 25. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u77	To close the debate, I have the floor of the Secretary of State for Regional Development, Isabel Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What is at stake, I repeat, again, is not to change the Expropriations Code, but to consider that expropriations and administrative services under the PRR projects are of public utility and with an urgent nature. Mr Filipe Melo, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, in terms of procedure, the expropriating entity is responsible for promoting and developing expropriation procedures in full accordance with the Expropriation Code, including the payment of fair compensation. Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, I recall the opinion of the Superior Council of the Public Ministry, which says that the scope of this scheme is appropriate to achieve the objectives set out in the explanatory statement, being consistently implemented in the proposed rules, there will be no reference to respect for constitutional and legal principles. Mr. Jorge Paulo Oliveira, it is very inappropriate to use indicators that are not the most qualified to measure the efficiency or effectiveness of the PRR. PSD Member Jorge Paulo Oliveira again displayed the document he mentioned in his speech. At the stage in which we are in the Recovery and Resilience Programme, there are 100 % contracts made, there are 56 % approvals and the honourable Member has forgotten to mention, for example, the EUR 23 billion in the Portugal 2020 programming, which today are at an implementation rate of 80 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Members: What we are doing today is allowing the various government areas responsible for the implementation of investments and projects included in the PRR to accelerate naturally enduring processes, allowing us to honour the commitments with which we commit ourselves, without creating anything new, using a figure that already exists in the Expropriations Code. I also want to say that the PRR projects will not all be covered, of course, and then it is up to each government area to decide what they are, according to the commitments they have made, to do so, as I said, in full accordance with the law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u79	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u80	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u81	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u82	If it is about the conduct of the work, please, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u83	Mr President, since the Secretary of State has invoked that the statistical data that the PSD here referred to were inadequate, she asked the Bureau to distribute to the parliamentary groups the Operational Situation Point of the "Recover Portugal" platform so that they can verify and validate the data that I have before. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u84	Mr President, I would like to convey to the Bureau the document you want to see distributed. We thus conclude the first item on the agenda. We move on to the second point, which is that of the joint assessment, in general, of the Bills No. 267 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — allows marketers of the liberalised natural gas market to have access to the retailer’s latest wholesale resource channel, 314 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Ensure access by all marketers to regulated natural gas rates and 341 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Simplifies access to regulated energy tariffs and determines its continuity and the creation of regulated gas tariffs for storage and channelling. To present the draft law of the Liberal Initiative, Mr. Bernardo Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A few days ago, we learned that Nigeria warned Galp that there would be a substantial reduction in gas deliveries. More: Galp had already said that, in the first half of the year, he had lost about 135 million in Nigeria's non-compliances, and the same had already happened last year. Having said that, the Government knew perfectly that there would not be enough gas to support its return to the regulated market if everyone would move at the same time, as the Government initially intended. The proof of this is that soon after the announcement, Mr. Secretary of State João Galamba hurried to go all gas to Nigeria in order to ensure supply, without saying what were the counterparties he was offering and after that the Government launched a series of new storage obligations. All this is a demonstration of the high risks of this measure, of which we disagree for three reasons. First, the overwhelming majority of customers today are on the liberalized market. These 1, 3 million customers that the government initially intended to move to the regulated market would essentially pass them to two very large operators, who would benefit greatly, because only these two, plus two small customers, are today the last-resource traders, to the detriment of the tens and tens of other small operators who are working on the liberalised market and who will gradually lose their customers. Secondly, the Competition Authority itself has already alerted Parliament at hearing to the dangers of this possible market concentration situation. In addition to the announcements on the part of the Government, we also need to think about what is not seen, the long-term consequences. This measure constitutes a kind of authorised dumping of natural gas, will certainly weaken a market that has remained for years and many investments to be built and, in the long term, may lead to less supply, less competition and higher prices. Third, returning to the beginning, all gas supply is based on contracts with Nigeria and we all realize that the risks of non-compliance are quite high, because the current price at which the gas is being sold compensates for breach of contracts. If gas is lacking, there are only two alternatives left to the government : or it uses its strategic reserves, in clear contrast to European priorities, or buys gas on the markets at present prices, which can only generate a future tariff deficit that taxpayers will have to pay. That is why, in disagreement with the Government's measure, we have a duty to mitigate its effects and the proposal we have here allows marketers on the liberalised market to be in the same condition and to have access to the Galp resale channel, which is the last wholesale resource marketer ( CUR ). Thus, on the one hand, it is ensured that consumers remain in their current operators, only updating the tariff and simplifying the whole process, avoiding bureaucracy and the loss of dual commercial offers that they have, gas packages and electricity, and on the other hand ensuring the survival of smaller companies on the liberalised market, ensuring the existence and future of the competitive market. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u86	To submit Bill No. 314 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — To ensure access by all marketers to regulated natural gas tariffs, Mr Rui Afonso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The war has proved, unequivocally, that energy is also a powerful weapon. Europe is paying a high price for solidarity with Ukraine, but this cannot and should not undermine our determination to fight for the freedom and sovereignty of the Ukrainian people. [[Congrats from the CH.]] All forecasts point to 2023 being marked by the enormous European challenge of keeping energy accessible. There is nothing encouraging about the gas supply. Beijing ordered no Chinese energy company importing liquefied natural gas to resell it to foreign customers and Galp Energia reported having received a major force warning from its main natural gas supplier, Nigeria LNG, warning for a substantial reduction in the production and supply of liquefied natural gas. We point out that by August of this year, more than half of the natural gas that Portugal used came from Nigeria by ship, based on long-term contracts that Galp signed with that country. We welcome today's agreement between the Governments of Portugal, France and Spain to accelerate Iberian interconnections, joining the Iberian Peninsula with France and, therefore, with the European energy market, creating a maritime pipeline that also allows the transport of green hydrogen. However, this is not configured as a short-term solution and therefore it is important to ensure an immediate alternative. I believe that countries such as the United States, Canada or Norway will help us solve the problem. The question is at what price.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u88	It'll be great!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u89	In Portugal, one part of the gas goes directly to domestic and industrial consumption and the other part serves to produce electricity. Since the beginning of the war in Ukraine there have been significant price increases in the energy sector, with natural gas rising 35, 5 %. Electricity is the most important indicator in the energy products class, with an increase of 28 % compared to February, because without nuclear power plants and coal, Portugal uses mainly natural gas to produce electricity in thermoelectric power plants. Moreover, this year, this weight ended up being higher, since due to drought, it was not possible to count a percentage of energy generated by the dams identical to those of previous years. In view of this contagion effect, the Portuguese and Spanish governments created a restriction on the price of gas for the purpose of electricity production, after Brussels gave green light to measure, which began to produce effects on the electricity market on 15 July. However, and despite this measure, Portugal is 10. the European Union country with the highest price of natural gas for domestic consumption and 9. the in relation to industrial consumption. Galp announced this month the increase in gas prices, after in July it promoted an increase of about €3, €60 for the most representative step, justifying market volatility and inherent cost increases as reasons for its updating. In turn, EDP ( Energies of Portugal ) Commercial also announced an increase in the gas price of, on average, 30 € monthly, plus taxes and taxes due to a price escalation in international markets and after one year without updates. As a result, the Government, on the basis of Decree-Law No 57 - B / 2022 of 6 September, made it possible for 1 million and 300 thousand Portuguese who are integrated into the free market of natural gas access to regulated tariffs. These regulated rates are defined annually by ERSE ( Energy Services Regulatory Entity ) and may be reviewed quarterly if prices on the Iberian wholesale market undergo significant changes. According to the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action, despite the increase in the price of gas on the regulated market at the beginning of this month, it is still 33 % lower than the offer of most marketers to operate on the free market, being a great support for the containment of family costs. In view of this possibility, it is urgent that all marketers operating on the liberalised market have access to the regulated natural gas market, since the transfer of customers to the regulated tariff distorts competition in the natural gas sector and questions the survival of the various traders. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u90	To submit Bill No. 341 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — It simplifies access to regulated energy tariffs and determines its continuity and the creation of the regulated gas rate of stock and channelled, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Before we continue this discussion, it is important, firstly, to stop for a moment to reflect on a matter. This subject of regulated energy tariff, in this case in natural gas, as a fundamental mechanism for consumers to save in energy bill, is under discussion why? The answer is very simple and is as follows: although PS, PSD and CDS assumed, with the troika, that the regulated rate was to end, after all, it will be seen and the regulated rate did not end because the PCP proposed its continuity.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u92	Exactly! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u93	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u94	A proposal that was approved because the PS did not have an absolute majority. Today, the regulated energy tariff—which exists only because the PCP defended it! — it is already defended by everyone, including by the prophets of the sacrosanct free market, in such a way that they even defend for the economic groups the right to practice, if they wish, the regulated tariff. [[Protests by IL Bernardo Blanco.]] Mrs. Members, the CFP is more concerned with people who have no money to heat their homes than with economic groups who are losing customers to the regulated energy market.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u95	What about Russia? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u96	What is needed is to move forward with concrete measures to go further in the defence of populations and in access to the regulated energy market at lower rates, to end this real theft that is occurring. This is the proposal presented by the CFP: simplify access to regulated energy tariffs, determine its continuity so that the transitory character that they still have and create the regulated rate of bottle gas and liquefied oil (LPG) channelled up until, even today, the majority of the population uses — not natural gas — the stock gas, with the exorbitant prices being used. The measure announced by the Government to allow the return to the regulated gas tariff, as was already the case in the CFP's intervention electricity, came late and had already been proposed by the CFP, not 10 years ago or 5 years ago. The last time was in May this year, in the framework of the State budget, already in a situation where price increases were expected. at that time, the PS joined the PSD, the Arrival and the Liberal Initiative, with votes against, and the NAP's abstention in the rejection of this measure, which later the government presented as the solution to limit speculative increases. In view of the late recognition that the existence of the regulated tariff and the ability to return to this tariff by consumers is in fact an important shield against the speculative volatility of this false market, the CFP reaffirms the need to eliminate the transitional nature of the regulated tariff and create a regulated tariff for the LPG. in this last aspect, we stress that the need for a regulated tariff is not confused or replaces the current, to a lesser extent, application of the legislation in force on the exceptional setting of maximum margins in the formation of the selling price to the public. We also propose simplifying the procedure for the conclusion of electricity or gas supply contracts with the last-resourced marketer or the transfer process of contracts, ensuring, in this case, that the requirements required for the conclusion of a new contract are not applicable, namely: proof of residence, ownership or lease of the property. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not do the wrong thing to ask who has already changed the contract to the regulated market in this Chamber, but I want to give all those Members and all those Members. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to this unacceptable theory, which is price regulation. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u97	I never went out!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u98	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are discussing what Mr. Minister of Economy has called 'gas hunting', i.e. a week with gross gas increases next year and the need for new business support measures. But what we are actually discussing is the hunting of the planet's natural resources, because, regardless of the war that is currently in Europe, it was this global vision that led us to the climate crisis that we live, to an unsustainable consumption of natural resources, to the absence of alternative policies to the consumption of fossil fuels and to an unexplained delay in the energy transition, which long ago should be promoted. For years the NAP has been monitoring the warnings of the scientific community that dependence on fossil fuels, beyond other social and economic issues associated with its exploitation, has a number of problems. One of them is the circumstance of oil, natural gas and coal being non-renewable sources of energy—and therefore finite—a problem inevitably associated with strong environmental impacts, with enormous contribution to climate change. At this time, one of the social aspects that is absolutely emerging is that the most disadvantaged and vulnerable and those who are living below the poverty threshold are not forgotten. That is why we defend and continue to defend a new enlargement of the social energy tariff, which is a responsible measure, both environmentally and socially.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u100	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, from the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: to the honourable Members. Members of the Liberal Initiative, my feelings for the fall of the government of Liz Truss. Today, we can say with all the property that liberalism hurts, does not work in Portugal and is even an international anecdotes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u102	It's about the gas! They didn't study any gas!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u103	We know that, when we put liberalism on one side of the balance and on the other side a façade, what loses freshness and melts faster is even liberalism. [[Protests of Members of the IL.]] We have this concrete reality and we also know that the Liberal Initiative brings the measures on the regulated market with a first idea: that which is bad, it is very bad, it is really bad that people have freedom of choice. [[Protests by IL Bernardo Blanco.]] Now, the Liberal Initiative is against the freedom of choice of consumers, because it says that, well, it is good that they are on the market.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u104	We are by the same rules as the game!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u105	Because, as far as you can go to the regulated rate and have the freedom to choose, that can't be. It cannot be because, perhaps, they even go to the market and to the regulated tariff. And that's against what? Are you going against people's interests? No, it goes against the ideological dogma of the Liberal Initiative. I almost dare ask how many members of the Liberal Initiative have now not changed to the regulated market. I almost dare ask that!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u106	This has already been used by Mr Bruno Dias!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u107	That's a copy!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u108	No, it's for everyone to use!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u109	The Liberal Initiative does something extraordinary, because it says that people cannot or should not be able to change to the regulated market, but that companies, those who won millions with the free market, should be able to choose. [[Protests by IL Bernardo Blanco.]] Not people! People never. For companies, everything. [[Protests by IL Bernardo Blanco.]] For people, nothing. For companies, everything.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u110	For some companies!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u111	This is the summary of the Liberal Initiative's proposal and will therefore not surprise us here to say: "For people, everything! » The Left Block defends people, so we are against the proposal of the Liberal Initiative. Here comes another proposal, which, in fact, has a title on one thing, the content on another and is from a legal point of view null and void. We want to do the same thing as the Liberal Initiative, but as we don't want to copy, because in the past we've done it and gone wrong, we're going to do something different. [[CH protests.]] from a legal point of view, the initiative does nothing to do with its title. [[CH protests.]] It only says, and only, that the price that people will pay will be that of the regulated market, whatever the company that provides them with the gas, but the title does not say that the bill is for the price that people pay, but it is for the form of access to the gas that companies have. Hit something with the other one? No, but it's enough. [[CH protests.]] It is clear that they do not know what they are talking about.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u112	Ah! We just don't know what we're talking about!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u113	Above all, as far as the content of the proposals is concerned, there remains a huge void, which is normal in the Reach. [[CH protests.]] As for the CFP, I would like to say that we follow the proposal on the table. We have voted several times, side by side, in defence of the regulated market and we believe that, yes, when the regulated market is placed, on the table, compared to the free market, it has gain, either in gas or in electricity. Commendation of BE. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u114	For an intervention, Mr. Ricardo Pinheiro of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After a few minutes of interventions, I think we can make a balance sheet on how the country's energy transition policy has happened in recent years. To reduce 1, 6 GW of thermal energy and not to damage the energy system, despite an absolutely incredible energy crisis at European level, it is clear that the whole model of investment in renewable energy is important — either by water, by wind or, also, by the solar energy projects that we are in progress — in the possible dependence that we would have on fossil energies in the country towards the European space in the near future. As regards the possibility of retailers of the liberalised natural gas market, which provide customers up to 10 000 m3 and index the price of the contract at the transitional selling rate to end customers, in theory, there are no drawbacks. As regards the possibility of a marketer to present an indexed price at the regulated rate, although the term ‘indexed’ raises some doubts, in fact, the fact that the price is indexed at any rate does not mean that it is equivalent to that of the same tariff, but only that the price varies according to that tariff. Therefore, the price may constitute an additional to the spread of this tariff, nothing saying the diploma about whether a spread can be applied, nor what its value would be. It may also allow marketers who practise such prices to be provided by the last wholesaler resource marketer, like the retail CURs, i.e. marketers who have been supplied by the wholesaler CURs. Such a possibility could only be considered in contracts where the price charged was equal to that of the tariff. The wholesaler CURs perform the gas acquisition activity for retail supply in national trade, not for market traders, admitting that the quantities of gas are requested. The legal rules in question, which oblige wholesalers to supply retailers rather than market traders, are directly in place and will not be fully available to the legislator insofar as in practice they derive from the modification of 14 October 1993. in this sense, any decision to extend access to such forms of supply to the whole universe of natural gas traders can substantially increase the legal risks associated with litigation. There are less clear proposals as to the intended objective: whether market access to suppliers as natural gas buyers to the supplier and supply conditions of wholesale CURs; whether market access to regulated tariffs as regulated suppliers and customers of the regulated market; or whether both. The end of regulated gas and electricity tariffs is currently scheduled for 31 December 2025 and, so far, the generality of the final customers of natural gas and electricity have freely transferred to the so-called « liberalised market », demonstrating that the prices and conditions offered under free arrangements are generally more competitive than those of the regulated regime. Indeed, the current price volatility situation has led to substantial increases in gas and electricity cases, justifying the adoption of exceptional measures for the protection of end customers, such as the extent to which it allowed the return to the regime of regulated natural gas tariffs. The Government and the PS have adopted a series of measures that in recent months have allowed to mitigate the effects of war on Ukraine, namely: the allocation of revenue from the national electricity system ; the simplification of procedures for renewables; the adoption of the Iberian mechanism; the solidarity box; the strengthening of the allocation of revenue, also in June 2022, again to the national energy system; the start of the implementation of the Iberian mechanism; the warning of the Recovery and Resilience Plan to support collective self-consumption and renewable energy communities; the return to the regulated rate of the natural gas market; and the strengthening of the allocation of the Most Sustainable Buildings Support Programme. The support of €10 per month for the purchase of bottle gas, which entered into force from yesterday, is available from October 20 for domestic consumers benefiting from the minimum social rate or social benefits. Also the way the logistics operator has been operating in recent times well represents the 63 208 families who have decided to make this change. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u116	For an intervention, Mr Hugo Martins de Carvalho now speaks on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My compliments to all and to all and also to the initiatives under discussion. They all criticise, which must start by making the government, on the lack of direct measures to support consumers, families and business turnover, measures that have not existed so far. The Government maintains the country and Parliament with very dubious impact measures, among which the Liberal Initiative, for example, wants to amend today. Mr Bernardo Blanco wants to make an amendment that I don't know if it won't come out worse than the sonnet. The sonnet is bad. This is a sonnet of Iberian electricity mechanisms, in which the French get warmed up with our energy, the Spaniards write and speak and we, here, make a sort of playback in which we neither command nor do anything. This is a sound of recycled money and recycled programs. The Minister of the Environment announced an injection of EUR 3000 million to deal with the energy crisis, when EUR 2000 million already belonged to the system, without a hint of humility to admit already that they were already working by the PSD. They were already revenue from the tariffs, which bear the tariffs. It is a dream of market interventions like this. I think it is also appropriate to leave this doubt to the Liberal Initiative because it mentions the take or pay contracts that Galp has with Nigeria, which are advantageous contracts and according to which, Galp is obliged to sell the gas at a regulated price to the CUR, which is who will receive all these consumers, all these customers. It would be important for the Liberal Initiative to assure Parliament that there is no risk of this amendment which it proposes — and Mr Ricardo Pinheiro has already mentioned this — to set a pretext for Galp to say: « Well, if so, now I see at the price I want and do not respect that rule. » If this happens, tariffs will fire 50 %, 60 %, 70 %, 80 % on that same day. I do not know whether the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival had this care, or not, but it would be very important to rest the Parliament — I do not know whether they have any legal opinion or not! What is born socialist late or never goes straight and these amendments will not work, but it would be very important not to run that risk. I know that I am not going to startle Mr Bruno Dias by passing on to him that I do not agree with what he says, because we actually have a very different view.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u118	They like to spend money!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u119	In the PSD, we value the fact that an economic sector is open to people, so that people who work, risk, who strive, who create jobs, who come up in life, who earn money can do so in energy as well. For your own sake, there would be a player, a company, an owner of an entire economic sector, without there being an opportunity for anyone else to make money or participate in it. This has economic advantages and then has other social advantages, investment in the network, competition and price, Mr. What makes the price rise brutally is not the market. You did the exercise of saying that the market is rising prices, but what you are making prices rise brutally is the invasion that you do not call invasion and war, which you have not yet called war. That's what's making prices rise brutally. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u120	And the Santa Claus and the Red Capuchin, who went with the rabbit to the circus!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u121	A balanced view of all of this would indeed be very necessary, which several governments in Portugal have already continued. A balanced view, which is not that of nationalizing everything. Any day, only to nationalize Quinta da Atalaia, too. It's nationalizing here, nationalizing there and there.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u122	Discussing this is easy!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u123	It is a good example of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the Payment of Excessive Income to Electricity Producers, which you and the Left Block have forced the Socialist Party to vote in the consideration of breaking all the contracts that are today the surpluses of renewables - EUR 4 billion that are holding prices and facing the energy crisis. Not long ago, I was here, you were in this Commission asking the Government and the Socialist Party to break these contracts. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u124	It is curious that they come to talk about these policies, which are public policies of governments with balanced views of the system. This chavista spirit, in energy, does not work anywhere and will not work in Portugal either. I would very much like the CFP to be able to make a renewable path, so that we can no longer depend on fossil energy and on others, a balanced path with private investment, with people's participation in a harmonious way, so that Portugal can even evolve. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u125	And the people who go cold! That's the least!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u126	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Bernardo Blanco recently called the regulated tariff a situation of dumping. In the explanatory statement of the proposed law which the Liberal Initiative brings up to date, it is said that, by reopening the possibility of returning to the regulated market in a situation where energy prices are peaked, an unprecedented blow to a market that has been building for decades is taking place. It is an ideological difference, a difference of attitude, too, which is healthy and important, but which must in some way be emphasized: in a situation of peak energy prices, the Liberal Initiative is sorry for the market that has been building for decades. Well, I feel sorry for the people who are paying that peak of energy prices. People, unlike the markets, have accounts to pay, they go cold at home — in Portugal they go very cold at home! — and, when energy is expensive, to warm up, look for alternatives that are sometimes dangerous. This is how you die in Portugal, as you have been dead for decades, and this is a problem that we have not yet solved.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u128	They don't care about anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u129	It is for these people that markets actually regulate themselves. I know liberals believe in markets, but now we realize that they are markets that do not believe in liberals. What we have to do is protect people from market dysfunction, at the same time we create and regulate new markets, where we have to drive on renewables, overcoming, transcending the gas market, from which we become too dependent and that we have to be released. Dear colleagues of the Liberal Initiative, more freedom, less oppression.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u130	To speak on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr Bernardo Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u131	Mr President, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, the honourable Member was neither fortunate nor right. The honourable Member came here to talk about the United Kingdom because he had read nothing about gas. As for the United Kingdom, the fortunately short-term policy of the Conservative Party — I repeat, of the Conservative Party — was to come down tax and increase expenditure. This is much more like the policy of Eng. José Socrates, it has nothing to do with what we defend, which is to lower taxes and expenditure. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[Protests by L Rui Tavares.]] The UK Government should have done what you know the Left Block has done: lower the cost. The way you do it stays for each one. You chose to fire people and use voluntary work. [[Applause from the IL.]] That's not our way and we're not gonna do things like that, but it's your job.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u132	Basically, just like I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u133	Mr Bruno Dias, I said three times, in the rostrum, that the Liberal Initiative disagreed with the measure of the regulated market. You know that, because you were in the hearing with me and you know perfectly well that we disagree with this measure. So, and because I even have some respect for you, I'm just going to pretend that I didn't hear what I said, because you know perfectly well that we disagree with the size of the regulated market. What is being proposed is a mitigation of the effects, because paradoxically, by accepting the government's measure as it is, it is benefiting the great energies, it is benefiting Galp. I never thought I'd see the PCP next to Galp, but there's a star for everything! Open... [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u134	We propose alternative measures!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u135	I know, Mr. Deputy was in the hearing and you know this. I know that you certainly do not want to benefit Galp, but I ask you, please, to read the bill again, more deeply, to realize that if you vote against, you will be next to Galp. Very quickly, I would like to thank Mr Hugo Martins de Carvalho for his questions. In the project we admit and even say that there are a number of things that need to be defined by ERSE and regulated by the government, but I remind you that the principles of this proposal are based on Article 59. the Decree-Law on the National Natural Gas System and Article 268. the Trade Relations Regulation, approved by ERSE. This proposal has already been put to the debate by ERSE two years ago and it has — there you are, Mr Bruno Dias! — a negative opinion from Galp. That's why you didn't, that's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u136	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u137	Finally, Mr President, saying that in the working papers of these measures, the European Commission recommends, exactly, the implementation of this proposal in the countries where this measure took place. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u138	Mr Rui Afonso has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u139	Mr President, it is only to pass on to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, Member of the Left Block, who did not actually submit any draft legislation on this subject — as well as the PSD — but, by the way, he did not read the initiatives presented either.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u140	Li, li!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u141	I therefore advise you to read the bills that come to the debate before weaving any type of statements. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u142	You just don't know what they did!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u143	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are closing the debate with Mr Bernardo Blanco, of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Opening the liberalised market market for Galp's gas resale channel would be beneficial to consumers and would enable small marketers to survive, taking power from large operators. The only reason for the government not to apply it is because it would bring efficiency to the government itself, making the change to the regulated market easier, which obviously has risks because we know that there is a great risk of breach of contracts. Mrs. Members, as regards energy, in general, the approach taken by other countries has been the following: first, lower energy taxes; then, directly support the most vulnerable people; and lastly, only interfere in the markets. The government, unfortunately, has done exactly the opposite. It should be recalled that the PS has already plummeted several times this year the reduction in VAT (tax on value added) of gas and electricity to 6 %, led the reduction in VAT on delivery and installation of high energy efficiency equipment, as has led to the direct allocation of securities to the most needy, preferring the measure of solidarity balls, which have not reached anyone. I conclude by saying that the Competition Authority itself, in hearing in Parliament, stated that the desirable to combat rising energy prices would be to start by taxing, immediately lower taxes, such as VAT, and directly support the most vulnerable families, opting for neutral measures from the point of view of competition. That is the policy we defend to begin to recover the purchasing power of the Portuguese all over the gas. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u145	We therefore conclude the second item on our agenda. We move on to the third point, which concerns the assessment of Resolution Projects Nos 2 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Increase in national minimum wage and 217 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government increase national minimum wage and public administration salaries. To present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mr Alfredo Maia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u146	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposal for a recommendation to the Government to increase the national minimum wage to €850 in January 2023, which the CFP submits to this Assembly, is essential for the general improvement of wages, the fairest redistribution of wealth, the dynamisation of the economy and the fight against poverty. The risk of poverty or social exclusion affecting more than 2 million and 300 thousand people — almost a quarter of the country's population — for which low wages and deep injustice in the distribution of wealth highlight the emergence of an increase in the national minimum wage. The increase recommended by the CFP for the €850 will necessarily have an effect of increasing the wage gap translated into general increases, contributing to the recovery of purchasing power, successively lost, to address the erosion of inflation, as well as to stimulate domestic consumption, an essential instrument for the re-establishment of the economy and the strengthening of social security revenues. It aims, on the other hand, to contribute to start a path of more just redistribution of wealth, balancing the division between the part due to work and the part of lion, which is transferred to the capital. In only 18 major groups, nearly EUR 3 billion of dividends for 2021 were distributed in the first half of this year. The data already disclosed indicate higher profits in 2022, with a dozen companies registering more than EUR 4 billion of profits in the first half of the year and therefore a greater appropriation by capital, of the wealth produced. The employer strongly insists on the the thesis of the impossibility of increasing wages, but the fact is that the work factor has a much smaller weight than it often propagates. According to the Banco de Portugal, staff costs account for only 15 %, 56 % of corporate income. With this proposal, it is still intended to combat poverty and social exclusion, including that which affects many thousands of people who are still working.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u147	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u148	There is a broad consensus today that, although in several sectors the volume of employment has increased, wages continue on a downward course, ever closer to the value of the guaranteed monthly minimum wage. It should be noted that one quarter of the workers take only the national minimum wage, a situation which has become worse. In the first half of this year, the situation reached 24, 4 % of full-time workers, when in the same period of 2010 it was 13, 2 %. It is also evidence that, both in the Public Administration and in the public sector and in numerous private sector activities and companies, much of the wage levels were absorbed by the national minimum wage or is very close to its value. Even in long careers or in some chefs, little distance is from the minimum wage. The perpetuation of the low-wage model—of course, contrary to the increasing levels of education and qualification of workers—, which particularly affects young people, constitutes a barrier to increasing productivity and economic and social development. The increase in minimum wages and wages in general is, on the contrary, a measure of absolute justice and corresponds to a plan that we must take as an unadjustable imperative. It is absolutely necessary, it is effectively possible and it is urgent to carry it out. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u149	The Bureau noted a request for clarification from Mr Rui Rocha of the Liberal Initiative, but he did not have time to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u150	They don't want to hear the answer either!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u151	I assume that the Liberal Initiative wants to maintain the request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u152	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u153	To make the request for clarification, Mr Rui Rocha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u154	Mr President, Mr. Alfredo Maia has told us about national minimum wage and I think we will all agree that the work must be paid with dignity.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u155	I have an idea! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u156	We are not a communist or socialist society, where typically wages are miserable and therefore we want the best for us. I would also like to stress that the most liberal societies are typically those where wages are higher, but I have a mental picture that has to do with the wealth produced in the country and with productivity. Therefore, I have a mental picture in which wages, including the minimum wage, must have some adjustment to the reality of the country and to the levels of productivity. That's my mental picture. The honourable Member presented another mental framework, with the minimum wage as a determining factor in increasing the pay gap, increasing consumption, increasing the dynamism of the economy. Therefore, in its mental framework, the increase in national minimum wage has no limit. So, I would like to ask: why € 850? In your mental picture, €850 seems, frankly, little. Why not $900? Why not $1,000?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u157	What a fine contribution to the debate!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u158	Why do they not power and propose a greater increase in national minimum wage? In your mental framework this would provide an unbalanced growth of the country's economy and well-being. Why not 1500? Why not 2000 € per month of national minimum wage? What do you have against Portuguese workers in your mental framework that prevents them from being more ambitious in the proposal they make? [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u159	To present the Resolution Project No. 217 / XV / 1. a, has the floor Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u160	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The increase in prices is a scourge that affects a considerable part of our economy and leads poverty, in a widespread and widespread way, to the country. Only in the last year, those who receive the national minimum wage have already lost almost €65 per month with the increase in prices. This scourge must have a response from public authorities. When people, who have difficulty reaching the end of the month with wages to pay their bills, look at the political power and see the response that the government is giving, come to a single conclusion: the Socialist Party, the Government of Antonio Costa, accepted the impoverishment of the country and, to do so, presented an agreement to it, with all the pump and circumstance, with the same bosses who live at the cost of rising prices and inequalities and who accept the impoverishment of the country. It's a structural change. There is indeed a government that, in the face of the greatest scourge we are facing, accepts that the country and those who have wages go backwards. It's incomprehensible! People know that wages are short because inflation exists, but they also know that inflation is being covered, that there are millions of euros of profits — profits that are often abusive. Just go to a gas pump, just look at the electricity bill, just go to a large area to see abusive profits that the government accepts that they are untouchable, because nothing wants to do to them. But who is responsible for inflation? What can happen if you increase wages? Is that going to attack the abusive profits? Don't! The government says that the big problem for the economy will be to increase wages, because in profits it does not want to play, because in inequalities it does not want to move — even lets them increase — so wages can never be touched. Now, what the Left Block says is that the State, the Government, the Assembly of the Republic should place itself next to the families, alongside the purchasing power of the families, alongside those who live in the salary. And to that end, demand an increase in the national minimum wage to cancel the loss of purchasing power immediately and provide guarantees of protection in the face of the increase in poverty and impoverishment, already in January next. The State may do so with its employees, with the Public Administration, should do so with the contracting entities and must also require in the social consultation that this exists. An agreement for impoverishment is an agreement that may please the bosses, but it is an agreement that will remain for the future as a huge damage to the workers and the country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u161	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD, Mrs Lina Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u162	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP presents to us today a draft resolution entitled « Increase in the national minimum wage », which aims to recommend to the Government that the same goes to €850. Mr Alfredo Maia, he has recently been in the Assembly of the Republic and is probably unaware that this draft resolution is identical to the initiatives presented by the CFP before the discussion of the different State budgets. [[Protests by PCP Members Bruno Dias and Paula Santos.]] They're getting upset! Open... The only originality of the projects is in the desired value for this increase. This is, after knowing the value agreed at the centre of social consultation, the CFP immediately came to this Chamber to make such a number. Mr President, the lack of consistency is something that we cannot accuse the CFP, because every year it repeats the same initiatives irrespective of the circumstances and the environment, which removes seriousness and credibility from the proposals that you have. Ex.s present. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u163	What? The increase in national minimum wage? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u164	I would also like to remind the CFP that the increase in national minimum wage does not result from its populist proclamations. It is not the Central Committee that decrees the increase in national minimum wage, it is in the social consultation that the matter is debated and agreed. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u165	It is in this seat that the first interested in the valuation of Portuguese wages that the CFP so much likes to talk about. The CGTP ( General Confederation of Portuguese Workers ), the trade union central which the PCP so prizes and supports, never approved any agreement on the minimum wage of Portuguese workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u166	It's a lie! Or, at least, ignorance!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u167	The PCP wants « sun in the air and rain in the napal ». In Parliament, it proposes an increase in the national minimum wage ; where this increase is agreed, it refuses to support that same increase. Tragic or sick, come the devil and choose! Mrs. Members, a tripartite agreement, known as the medium-term agreement for the improvement of income, wages and competitiveness, was agreed at the heart of social agreement. I believe that this House will give the draft resolution of the CFP the same destination as the CGTP gives to the proposals to increase the national minimum wage approved in social consultation. They discuss the whole life, but they never come to an agreement. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD believes that it could have been made more and better, but this agreement was signed by the social partners. The PSD respects social dialogue and collective bargaining, because it considers that it is in these seats that labour issues should be discussed and, in particular, the increase in national minimum wage. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u169	For an intervention, also on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Francisco Pimentel has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u170	Mr. President, Dear colleagues : The update of the national minimum wage, verified since 2016, constitutes an undeniable measure of social justice. However, the adoption of this isolated policy, without being accompanied by increases in the other wage levels, has resulted in a devaluation of these wages, increasingly absorbed by the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u171	Will you go there? Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u172	In 2005, around 5 % of the workers received the minimum wage, and today around 27 % of the workers'salaries are being lower than their wages, a decline in academic and professional qualifications for workers and, finally, in their impoverishment. The Public Administration and its employees have been the biggest victims of this process of impoverishment, for the forgetting and abandonment of which they have been targeted by the Government in recent years, with a visible translation in the degradation of the quality of public services provided and in the removal of their employees. When inflation in 2022 threatens to reach 8 % and nothing is said and done, as regards the correction of its ‘generous’ increase of only 0, 9 %, we are impoverished. When an average increase of 3, 6 % is proposed for 2023, for a forecast inflation of 5, 1 %, in addition to the convenience of the change in inflation criterion recorded for the forecast, we have new impoverishment. However, the Government has recently noted the desire to move forward with a review of general careers, which, while valuable, is still manifestly insufficient in view of the current financial cushion it has available and for nothing to say about the valorization of special and non-revised careers, verbi gratis of teachers and health personnel, who seem, for now, forgotten. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u173	Public officials, tired of promises, have the right to ask and hope that the government will no longer seem serious and even become serious. To value wages, to abandon low wages policy, to make employment more attractive and to stop the bleeding of the most qualified young people is always fundamental. Portugal desperately needs to set up young frameworks and skills and the only way to achieve this is through wage increases. Have the courage and determination to do it today! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u174	The good cop and the bad cop!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u175	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Sérgio Monte has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with regard to the draft resolution under consideration, on the increase in the minimum wage, should remember, because sometimes collective memory is short, the following: when the annual update of the minimum wage was resumed in 2015, and after a period of four years of freezing, many voices rose, including that of some well-known economists and even some political parties with seats in this Chamber, who said, periodically, that the increase of the minimum wage would be a disaster for our economy, because it would cause failures, insolvency and more unemployment. Since then, governments led by Antonio Costa have been categorically denying this thesis by updating the value of guaranteed minimum monthly remuneration annually, increases that have been absorbed, of course, by companies and by the economy without any kind of oversale, fortunately. This is because the PS is effectively concerned with the most disadvantaged and has given evidence of this through the various measures that have been implemented, and the minimum wage is one of them. We see between 2015 and 2019 the minimum wage increased nominally 19 % for an accumulated inflation of 3, 8 % during this period. Well, from here it is withdrawn that there is a real growth of 15 % of the minimum wage in this period. Between 2019 and 2022, it increased nominally 17, 5 % for an accumulated inflation that could be around 9 %, 10 % because we still do not know what the average inflation will be for the year 2022, which will mean another real increase about 8 % or 8 %, 5 % despite inflation having risen substantially by 2022, as I have already mentioned. From 2022 to 2026, as provided for in the medium-term agreement for the improvement of income, wages and competitiveness, signed at the head of CPCS ( Standing Committee on Social Consultation ) by employers'confederations, by the Government and the UGT ( General Workers'Union ), the minimum wage will be increased by 28 % when it reaches €900. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Thus a cycle of annual updates of the minimum wage will be completed between 2015 and 2026, which amounts to an increase of 78 %, for a cumulative inflation planned for this period of 24 %, i.e. one of the largest increases of the minimum wage, if not even the largest, since it was created in 1974. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I stress that some of the critical voices come in the sense of saying that the minimum wage is 'compressed', i.e. getting too close to the average wage. The situation is only happening, ladies and gentlemen. Members, because there are still some remnants of the troika measures, which have blocked the wage negotiation, without a doubt. And even in this area it was once again a socialist government that intervened, dynamizing the collective bargaining, with the 2018 agreement and the amendments to the 2019 Labour Code. And again it is a socialist government which, through the recent agreement reached in the context of social consultation, has tried to correct the situation and promote a greater balance between wage tables. In short, we can say that if someone has valued the minimum wage, they have indeed been governments led by Antonio Costa. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u177	For an intervention on behalf of the NAP, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let's talk about the national minimum wage is inevitably about poverty. And today we cannot help but remember the real testimonies that have been given to the national campaign for poverty eradication launched by the European Anti-Poverty Network. I bear the testimony of 35-year-old Mary, who tells us: "For the kids to eat in the morning, we will work with the empty stomach. This is one of many witnesses that we can find of the nearly 2 million Portuguese who are poor. of these 2 million, a large number work full-time and, more, with children in charge and to whom low income does not prevent them from escaping to poverty. And the group most affected by poverty are still younger people, women with dependent children, i.e. single-parent families. About a quarter of the workers receive the national minimum wage. And those who receive 705 € gross per month see their liquid order glued to little more than the poverty threshold, which is currently located in the 554 €. With all the family charges — housing, school, food — and despite their work, they cannot live with dignity. There is no doubt that the anti-poverty strategy will always go through a bet on valuing income, because decent work and decent experience have to mean a decent wage. Real inflation will continue to reach out to families and the government, despite its optimistic attitude, cannot ignore that increases in cost of living necessarily have to mean extending their hands to the family and taxing those who are the most polluter and those who earn the most in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u179	To speak on behalf of the Free Party, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I have just heard that it is necessary to wait for social consultation, that we must wait for a meeting of good will. It is not only legislated for the national minimum wage, as it is decreed for the national minimum wage. The national minimum wage was created in Portugal by decree! This is also one of the first achievements of 25 April: the creation, by decree, of the national minimum wage, on 27 May 1974, because it is the one in which we can do anything. Let me tell you a story from two countries. In Spain, the national minimum wage was always above the Portuguese national minimum wage, but at the same time as the proportion was always the same. What I expected the right here to do was to criticize the left, even in the time of management, because we let the Spanish minimum wage escape. The PS Member said that in the governments of António Costa there were historical increases, but the fact is that the Spanish minimum wage has increased much more and today, when investors and entrepreneurs look at the Iberian labour market, they think « in Spain is skilled work, Portugal is cheap work». This is a mistake! It's a historic mistake! We have to get back on track for the national minimum wage, and now is the time. To mitigate the effects of inflation, to avoid the recession next year, which we all want to avoid and, above all, not to let Portugal take off from Spain in terms of the type of labour market, increase the minimum wage, increase - vigorously and increase - already, and the Free will follow both the CFP and the Block proposals at that level.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u181	For an intervention on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Jorge Galveias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u182	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Two parties from this House were in the recent history of the Portuguese Nation as the two crutches of the tragedy that was the management of Antonio Costa, which condemned thousands of citizens to poverty.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u183	Tragedy? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u184	As crutches I mean, obviously, the Soviet-Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block. They do not like to hear the truth, but an unforgettable fact is that they are responsible for the approval of the various budgets of the Government of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u185	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u186	One, of extreme left — the Communist Party and the Left Block — directly involved in the adoption of socialist governance policies, others — the PSD and the Liberal Initiative — who try to turn themselves right, attended, from the first row, the show that was socialist governance and the use of PS art in the manipulation of the mechanisms used and imposed by Mário Centeno and João León. You certainly know what I'm talking about: the captives and the increase in the tax burden.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u187	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u188	Management imposed a disguised austerity, one of the greatest attacks ever on Portuguese workers and companies. Today, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block present two draft resolutions in this House for the increase of the national minimum wage, in an attempt to deceive the Portuguese once again. The people are serene, but less and less let themselves be deceived by the illusions of the left and the extreme left. Just make half a dozen accounts to verify that the loss of Portuguese purchasing power will continue. For those who receive €705 minimum wage, with an inflation of 9, 3 %, you will see their purchasing power reduced to €639. Portuguese are tired of alms and minimum measures: it is the minimum wage, minimum poverty, minimum income, minimum benefit, minimum debt,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u189	It's all minimal!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u190	... and are increasingly filled with maximum poverty, maximum inflation and, above all, the maximum lie with which the socialist government deceives them daily. [[Congrats from the CH.]] No more minima. The Portuguese want fair wages, they want what is due them by law and not by alms or charity in a hypocritical and bourgeois left. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias, Portuguese workers ask for Mr. Deputy's good offices, with the leader of his party and current Prime Minister, to raise awareness of the seriousness of the following reality: 31% of Portuguese families live on the poverty line, i.e. close to 2 million people. The workers who earn the national minimum wage will once again lose the purchasing power and, honourable Member, this time is not the fault of Passos Coelho, it is of António Costa. With the left and the extreme left, what we have today is 4, 5 million Portuguese with incomes below €554 and 1 million workers to earn the national minimum order. We're also the 13th. the poorest country in the European Union, we have a young unemployment of more than 15 % and Portugal is the fourth country with more long-term contracts — applied to about 1 out of every 5 workers. The PS's excuses are always the same: the troika — of your full responsibility—, Steps Rabbit, the pandemic and the war of Ukraine. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the arrival came to combat politically correctness and to end socialism and friendship. The arrival came to restore truth and social justice. Fernando Pessoa had already said: « Everything that comes, always comes for some reason», and the reason, in this case, is the Portuguese. Thus, the arrival will propose, at the heart of the discussion of the State budget for 2023, the increase of the basic order—which the left calls at least—to 900 € and the reduction of taxes for workers, so that this increase in wage represents a real increase in income.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u191	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u192	I will finish, Mr. President. For companies, the arrival will propose the reduction of taxes on workers in these circumstances, because we cannot overburden small and medium-sized enterprises with cost increases that will only fill, even more, the pockets of the socialist government, for this to be distributed by their customers. Portuguese workers know that they can count on arriving and arriving has Portuguese workers. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u193	Mr Ricardo Lima, from the PS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u194	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposal for a recommendation on the salary of employees of the Public Administration, as recommended by the Block of the Left, is indeed a good intention. Moreover, generally the recommendations are reflected in the State Budget proposals and have been part of the PS governance strategy since 2015, with prudence and sense of responsibility. The Government proposed increases in public service and revision of the single remuneration table for 2023. The Government's proposal presents an overall wage valuation of 5, 1 %, with an average increase of 3, 6 % for the next year only because of the effect of the valuation measure of the remuneration base, to which the progresses and promotions and career enhancement measures are added. The proposed measures for the legislative horizon are in line with the agreement signed in social consultation with a view to the valuation of wages by 20 % up to 2026. For example, the minimum monthly remuneration in public service rose by about 8 % to 761, 58 €. Workers with gross wages up to approximately € 2600 will have an increase equivalent to an increase in remuneration. It is also important to highlight one of the concerns of public administration workers. The technical assistants will benefit from an additional increase in a level of remuneration in 2023, thus ensuring a differentiation of two levels of remuneration in relation to the career of the operational assistants. This measure, combined with the valuation of the remuneration base, will represent a salary increase of 10, 7 %. However, it is important to stress that careers are frozen and promotions and progressions usually occur since 2018. the expected increases also add to the increase of the food allowance by more than 9 %, contributing to the increase of the proposed wage valuation. The total planned measures, plus career progress, will have an impact on the State budget of around EUR 1200 million, in addition to the impact it will have on local administration. It is therefore necessary to be cautious and responsible. It is necessary to combine wage valuation with certain accounts. Having certain accounts is not an obsession, it is an act conscious of responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u195	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u196	I will now finish, Mr President. The obsession was to strongly defend that austerity was the only solution to achieve the right accounts, as stated by the PSD and, in particular, its current leader.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u197	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u198	This obsession of PSD due to austerity not only did not achieve the right accounts as impoverished Portuguese and Portugal, and that is the reversal that PS is making. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u199	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, from the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u200	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : On issues relating to public administration, the Socialist Party does, in the Public Administration, the same thing that it is accepting for the other workers, i.e. impoverishment. It is true that by doing so in a phased way, it does not do so in the same way for all wages, but we know, as all the public administration workers know, that the great trick of the Socialist Party is the careers. The Socialist Party accepted, under pressure from the parties to the left, to increase the national minimum wage in the past, but never accepted to review careers. Therefore, we had compression of careers after compression of careers and, on this matter, the Socialist Party waved to the side. Now that inflation is galloping, as it has never seen, and that we know it reaches the lowest wages more clearly, the Socialist Party does the least of the minimums, but playing in careers is that it does not even see it. We look at the general value that is planned for the increase in the salary base of the Public Administration and we realize that the Government proposes to hire more people, says that it will review careers, that it will value wages, but in total it will increase the wage mass far below inflation. What does that mean in practice? That the government will not fulfill any of the previous promises and will accept what it has ever sworn to accept, which is the impoverishment of the country. This will be done by choosing the Socialist Party and the Minister of Finance, by a government that, after all, wants to reproduce what the right has done in the past and that the Socialist Party vowed that it was bad for the country. What is bad is now being recovered, incomprehensiblely, by whom do you think the workers are responsible for inflation and for who blames the wages for the loss of purchasing power. We consider that this is the voice of the bosses and that the PS is wanting to follow, but that is not ours. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u201	To close the debate on behalf of the CFP, Mr Alfredo Maia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u202	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mrs Lina Lopes, registers the decortesia towards the caloro, not knowing the squares of this House. They say the classics that « praise in your own mouth is guilt», but I must tell you that I do not feel diminished because of the vegetables of my parliamentary experience.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u203	Yes, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u204	With regard to the emphasis on the role and results of social consultation, the CFP has already explained, several times here, including numbers, what were the results, from the outset in terms of tax stamps for employers and zero results for workers, who will continue to impoverish. Mr Rui Rocha, of the Liberal Initiative, wanted to say - yes, it is true that the national minimum wage could be much higher - if he had followed the trajectory since its creation, today we would be far above 1000 €. However, we are talking about a minimum wage and, as you know, companies are not linked to the minimum wage. There is no doubt that many people in the newspapers are offended with announcements of the genre « such a company establishes the minimum wage of x », as if that were a great thing. The fundamental challenge I would like to put to Mr Rui Rocha and his parliamentary group is that they accompany us in a fundamental requirement, which aims to make trade between trade unions and employers' associations more free and more consequential in many companies and in many sectors where wage conditions can be improved and much more. “ How do you do it? ', you will ask the honourable Member. It is very simple, it is sufficient to repeal the regime for the expiry of the instruments of collective labour regulations. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u205	Let's do it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u206	Therefore, in relation to this, the recipe on the right is that of the custom: it will keep the garrot on collective bargaining. Mr Sérgio Monte, of the Socialist Party, said, and well, that the Government has increased the national minimum wage. However, of course I had to do so, there is no other way. Our basic disagreement is that the national minimum wage should have increased much more. The question that I give you is the following: is it possible to increase the national minimum wage in more than what the government has advanced?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u207	And not the real fall that happens now!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u208	Our answer is simple: yes, it is possible, it is desirable, it is urgent. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u209	We therefore conclude point 3 of our agenda and refer to point 4, which concerns the assessment of draft resolution No 247 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Support to students and requirements for student accommodation buildings, of Law Projects Nos 333 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Extraordinary complement to the social action grants of higher education, 340 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Creation of an extraordinary complement to higher education scholarships, applicable to the school year of 2022 / 2023, 342 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Strengthening of housing support in higher education and 343 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Allow autonomous taxation at a reduced rate of 10 % applicable to income relating to housing contracts concluded with higher education students ( generally) and to Resolution Projects Nos 250 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Recommends that the Government take urgent measures to support the housing of displaced higher education students and the creation of under-used state-owned university residences and 256 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Recommends that the Government accelerate procedures for the construction of new university residences. To present the BE projects, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor. I ask you to create conditions for this to happen. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u210	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Like all currencies, social realities also have a front and a verse, or reverse; face and crown of the same reality. The Socialist Party and the Government re-elected the number of vacancies created in higher education and the number of students who would access higher education this year, a record number. Also this good news had its reverse, which did not take long to appear in the headlines of the last few weeks, of the last few days. The first highlight of the national press: « There are many families who live on the razor wire and will have great difficulties in supporting the increase in expenditure inherent in the study of their children(...). The government and educational institutions will have to be more proactive and take measures to avoid the foreseeable increase in school dropout due to the current economic situation. » I am quoting Antonio de Sousa Pereira, President of the Board of Rectors of the Portuguese Universities. Second, "More than one in 10 students quit higher education in the first year. The number rises to one in four in vocational higher education. » — this last year. Thirdly, Portugal is one of the OECD countries that spends less on higher education, less than one third than its international partners. Do not keep on seeking. ” Fourth highlight : « Only one in 10 children of poor families, and in which the qualifications of parents do not go beyond 9. the year, you can complete higher education. Do not keep on seeking. ” Fifth highlight:'Portugal is one of the countries where the impact of the financial situation on school courses is more pronounced. Do not keep on seeking. ” The sixth highlight: « It is more likely that the child of a little-qualified Finnish and poor have a university degree than a rich Portuguese with the same level of education. Do not keep on seeking. ” Seventh highlight: "Students of polytechnics accuse the ministry of absolute inertia on student accommodation. Do not keep on seeking. ” Eighth highlights: « Viana do Castelo has no offer, except at astronomical prices. » I saved the same highlights; just replace Viana do Castelo by Évora, Lisboa, Porto, Aveiro, Algarve and all the university cities of this country. What the reverse of this currency shows is that we are faced with a perfect storm; a system that is unequal at the start of access to higher education, where public investment in higher education has not been sufficient to extend this access and the democratization of higher education at European levels, as shown by the data; a policy of charitable scholarships — repeat, charitable — which is subject to a wrong policy; an inflation crisis that is rapidly impoverishing families; an incomparable housing crisis, incontroversible and uncontrolled. This is the reality that we have to answer. This is the reality that the government insists on not responding. What the Left Block here presents are emergency measures. We propose more than 50 % scholarships immediately, so that students do not give up in the face of this perfect storm and we propose that they look for houses where they exist, and not go to the student rental market, is to create in the tourism market the possibility to request these homes for students. These are necessary measures that the Government should take to solve the problem of students who are losing access to higher education. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u211	To present the draft law of the NAP, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u212	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : To be a student in Portugal in a context of escalating inflation and real estate bubble is today a real impossible mission. Without a public offer, many of the students who are displaced saw their fourth income rise 11, 9 % in Lisbon, 13 % in Porto and 20 % in Bragança. That is, being a student and having a home — how much more a fourth worthy of living — is absolutely prohibitive. Furthermore, without zero VAT, the price of the essential food caba — which we have come to claim and which has been shooting since March — today, with the rise of inflation, has an increase of 14, 64 %, already at 210 € per month. In September, the mass itself, a typical table dish of any student in Portugal, rose more than 6 % and was one of the most expensive products. That is to say, being a student in Portugal and eating is also prohibitive. Students and their families are at the limit and if nothing is done, or the increased scholarship, so that the early abandonment of studies is prevented, what we are going to be telling our students is that there is no future for them in Portugal. That is why the NAP today proposes the creation of an extraordinary complement to higher education scholarships which guarantees an extraordinary supplementary benefit of € 125, to be paid in January, but also an extraordinary monthly increase of the scholarship, applicable in the school year 2022 / 2023, with the value of 7, 4 % to accompany inflation already from January, but with retroactive effects on the date of the grant. We must not forget that the transitional measures which have been implemented by the government have little or nothing done by young people and that there are gaps and a lack of social sensitivity shown here that it is important to correct, like the neighbouring Spain, where the pockets are already receiving monthly supplements of 100 €, or in France, where the scholarships have been increased 4 %. on our part, we are available to work on these initiatives as a specialist and we hope that the other political forces will also accompany us.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u213	To present the PCP bill, Mr Alfredo Maia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u214	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The housing of students in higher education displaced, estimated at 108 000 in the previous school year — will probably be higher in the present year, considering the record entry of 51 173 new students — is one of the most serious problems of lack of equity and risk of dropout. For these more than 108 000 displaced, and more than 43 000 of whom are stockholders, there are only 15 073 beds in public homes students, delaying in increasing the capacity provided for in the National Plan for Higher Education Housing (PNAES), which was announced by the Government in 2018, thanks in fact to a proposal from the CFP. The first step in this plan consisted of raising needs, as well as public accommodation and even private offer, having been made a list of buildings to be built, equipment to be reclassified and converted into residences, among which it is well known, up to its symbolism, the old building of the Ministry of Education on Av. 5 October. The PNAES has never had the required allocation, it has verified numerous delays, it has met new commitments, it is true — within the framework of the Recovery and Resilience Plan — but which are still insufficient to meet the needs. The prospects for a reasonable increase in public bed supply by 2026 will not be realized because the number of new units is only 12 000, not even reaching to double capacity. We are still far from responding even to the needs of the 48 000 students who have been displaced, which is why it is proposed that the Government should carry out the lifting of all public equipment, with little or no use, which could be converted into student accommodation. The offer of rented rooms also does not help to meet immediate needs, given the accelerated migration to tourist accommodation. According to the Student Housing Observatory, of the 9589 beds available in September last year, there are now 1973, i.e. less 7616, a breakdown of more than 79 %. And room prices are shooting, getting charged 500 €, or more, for example in Lisbon. Urgent measures are needed until it is ensured that all higher education institutions have their own homes, stressing the increase in the value of housing complement and the extension of support to the universe of displaced students. These include those who do not have the right to supplement accommodation simply because they cannot submit their contracts or receipts, a situation which, without failing to require adequate supervision by the State, requires measures such as proof through other means which do not receive it, as proposed by the CFP in its draft law. On the other hand, it is common to hear, of those responsible for university and polytechnic subsystems, that access to the housing supplement itself leaves out many students whose aggregates take low incomes to cover these charges. This is often an inducing factor in school dropout, discriminating many young people in access to higher education and blocking the investment that the country must make in the qualification of young people. It is in this sense that the extension of the housing supplement to students displaced, including those who are not recipients of scholarships, is proposed, depending on the income of the family by submitting a request in the school social action services. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u215	To present the bill of arrival, Mrs Rita Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u216	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, to the young Portuguese are sold an idea and a dream: what is worth investing in our studies and in our higher education, in order to carry out ourselves professionally and personally, and that our country will recognize us for this. And young people respond positively to this idea and this appeal. They study and work because they believe that teaching can be the social elevator they need to have better living conditions, to have better jobs, to have a better salary. They are just and legitimate ambitions, but, however, very out of touch with reality. It must be said that, in the race of obstacles which is access to higher education, there are those who are left in the first barrier: 34 % of young people do not access higher education and do not do so for economic reasons. Then there are those who stand in the second obstacle, which is not very different: successive socialist governments have made or maintained higher education not for anyone they want, but only for those who can — 46 % of young people do not complete higher education due to lack of financial resources. Thousands of young people access higher education, but cannot support the long list of expenses: tips, food, pass, study material. But in greater vulnerability are the displaced students, who add to this heavy list of expenses the most significant expenses, such as accommodation and travel at home. Problems, barriers, difficulties. Having a child in higher education requires so much sacrifice to Portuguese families that it seems more luxurious. But it is not, it is a need for young people, it is a need for the family and, above all, it is a need for Portugal, because our country needs qualified young people and needs talents. [[Congrats from the CH.]] This problem has been for decades, but instead of being resolved structurally, it is being remedied with budgetary migales year after year. And we already realize that we cannot count on this government and that we cannot count on the public offer. We cannot count on public offer since there are only 15 000 beds in accommodation for a total of more than 170 000 students displaced. They promised to extend the number of beds to double in 2018 — being double, by themselves, insufficient — and yet they did not do anything at all. They now propose, in this new Budget, a very small support of just over 200 € for a small number of students, when they know that this value is far below the average price that young people pay for a room. I'm just talking about the average price! Mrs. PS Members, your party has been in government for years, has an absolute majority. What do they need more to make reforms and to do something concrete to make the lives of young Portuguese people easier? [[Congrats from the CH.]] What Portuguese students know is that there are less and less available accommodations and that those that exist are increasingly expensive, incompetent, and the same inflation crisis that affects Portuguese families also hits landlords and, therefore, if we need more rooms available, we do nothing to demonize the owners, as the extreme left does here, which proposes the promotion of expropriations, destroying the businesses of those who have invested and want to generate wealth in our country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u217	What is needed, from the perspective of arriving, is to create tax relief mechanisms for owners who establish contracts with students. We therefore propose here very concretely the reduction of taxation from 28 % to 10 %, because only through a higher offer will we be able to lower these exorbitant housing prices. We admit the debate and admit the discussion of this and other ideas; what we do not admit is that nothing is done by young people and that higher education is, above all, the first experience that the young person has to slash against this social state that fails successively.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u218	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u219	Young people are the last priority line of the Socialist Party, and this dynamic is seen even here in Parliament: young socialists always stay back on their bench and only come forward when it is to talk about young people. [[Congrats from the CH.]] They only talk about young people, they only talk about other issues that their leaders consider to be of lesser importance. For this reason, what the common citizen needs to realize at home is whether it is still worth voting in a party that does not consider young people, who leaves their youth behind. This is our call. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u220	To present the Resolution Project No 250 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Recommends that the Government take urgent measures to support the housing of students of displaced higher education and the creation of under-utilized state university residences, Mr Rui Tavares.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u221	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The record numbers of students in higher education are one of the best news that the country could have, because there is no problem of our society, our economy and even our democracy that we can solve without having more qualifications, without betting on education, in particular in higher education. But we also have record numbers of students who enter higher education and do not get to sign up or quit shortly after they have enrolled. This is the worst news we could have, to waste talent, to waste the ability to change the country, not to take advantage of the dreams and projects of so many people who arrive at the university and the polytechnic. Today, we have a debate in which several measures are proposed which can at least minimize this problem. on the Free side, we present two types of measures: one for the short term and one for the medium and long term. For the short term, there is no way to deal with the difficulty of finding a home, finding a room in the university cities in Portugal but directly supporting the school social actions of the universities, who know their students, who have access to their data and who can make a direct transfer so that it is easier to rent in the university cities in Portugal. But, of course, in the medium and long term, we need more supply and it is not in the very long term that the government says it will bring more thousands of rooms. We already have in Portugal, in our university cities, a lot of public space built and empty, emptied or underused, which is waiting for good uses: military barracks, former civil courts, former civil hospitals, some with excellent conditions to receive university students. What the Free will requires the Government to do, through this draft resolution, is very simple and I do not see, dear colleagues of the PS and of all the benches, as it may be denied: that this heritage be invented, that a survey be made, in fact, that the Court of Auditors itself asks every year, that this heritage be known, that an inter-ministerial group be set up which presents a plan for the use, now on a temporary basis, or on a final basis, of these spaces, for example, of the quarters.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u222	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u223	Instead of being quartiles, they can allow you to lower the price of housing in our cities and, thus, we can take advantage of how it should be and give legs to the projects of university students who now enter our higher education. [[Congrats from PS MP Alexandra Leitão and Isabel Alves Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u224	To present the Resolution Project No 256 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Recommends that the Government speed up the construction of new university residences, Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u225	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Populist movements often resort to the rhetoric of division and resentment. They want people to believe that they lack jobs because foreigners are stealing them, not because the economy is not competitive enough, they want us to believe that we pay a lot of taxes because of small social support to groups of society, and not because we have a fat state that is dedicated to saving broken companies. When the issue is the lack of housing or the lack of student housing, the resentment rhetoric also points to foreigners, whether they are residents or tourists, forgetting that the number of new buildings has fallen almost 80% in the last 20 years. This is a rhetoric that aims to divide society into groups, creating an appearance of permanent conflict in which, for some to have more, others necessarily have to have less. This policy of division and permanent conflict which divides society into groups, putting against each other, is dangerous and does not lead to any stable solution. Our vision is different. We have a vision of growth and not resentment. We have the goal of multiplying rather than dividing. When we look at a person with difficulty in finding a house, our first thought is not to whom it can go to take one; our first thought is how we can do so that there are more houses, so that this person can also have one. Add instead of subtracting, multiply instead of dividing, growth instead of resentment. Therefore, our project for student housing is a project that adds up, which does not bet on the resentment of students against foreigners but, rather, on the growth of alternatives that do not depend on destroying the existing economic fabric. We want more student residences, we want the state to speed up licensing so it can be built more and rehabilitated faster. We want universities to make available their land so that more university residences can be built. We believe in this generation, we believe that this generation of young Erasmus, who study outside, who know Europe with lowcost flights, will not fall into the conversation of resentment against foreigners, until many of them, for good and bad reasons, know that one day they may be foreigners in another country. Yeah, we need more student accommodation a little across the country. It is built more so that residents, students, digital nomads and tourists can share vibrant, cosmopolitan, open and tolerant cities. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u226	For an intervention, Mrs Eunice Pratas of the PS Parliamentary Group now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u227	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As we all know, universal access to education has been, and is, one of the greatest achievements of democracy. Investing in education, allowing access to all citizens, is investing in the future, and this has always taken special attention from the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u228	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u229	There are tangible results of the governmental action of the PS also in the field of higher education, with effective expansion and democratization of access, with a network of institutions that has contributed to territorial cohesion. This does not prevent us from recognizing that there are relevant difficulties that still have to be overcome for this path to continue. We have now, in particular, an insufficient supply of student housing, which is partly a reflection of the housing market in a broader sense, but it is also an effect of some of the success of higher education: more demand, more students, more housing. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is true that we do not buy houses in the supermarket, it is a problem that is not solved quickly, but we are aware that we have to realize what is being done to answer this problem. There is a very important amount in the RPP that will finance a large investment in this area. The initial appropriation of EUR 375 million in the PRR will still be strengthened with more than EUR 72 million in order to increase student accommodation capacity in more than 18 000 beds up to 2026. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It will thus increase the total capacity installed in university residences by 45 % and 71 % in residences of institutes and polytechnic schools, in addition to allowing 3431 beds to be created by local authorities, mercy and other public authorities, through the rehabilitation of mostly devolved edified heritage. We therefore recognise that there is a problem that we are facing. The measures that PS has been implementing, and will still implement, have a direct and positive impact on the students' lives, and the evidence is that in the last seven years, since PS is government, there have been more than 30% of students supported with scholarships and an increase of more than 23% of students entering higher education. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The numbers therefore mirror that we are fulfilling our commitment to the young Portuguese people. We will therefore continue to pursue this path of democratization of our higher education and strengthen our collective future with the most qualified generation ever. over the past few years, the Socialist Party has assumed as one of its main flags the democratization of Portuguese higher education, as I have already said, providing institutions and families with resources so that any young person can study and realize his or her ambitions, regardless of the social condition of origin. It was this commitment that we made before thousands of young people and their families, and it is this commitment that we have come to fulfill. Let us see: in early August, a strengthening of social support was approved for higher education students to encourage access to higher education for candidates with economic disabilities; we extended the increase of eligibility from €8962 per capita per year to €9484; to the students of 1. o, 2. o is 3. the family subscription steps, we automatically made the award of the scholarship in higher education and expanded the allocation of the + Superior scholarships; we updated the housing supplements out of residence, so that they reflect the evolution of the rental costs borne by students who need to use private accommodation; we strengthened the support given to the master's scholarships for payment of propines, from €871 to €2750 ; the progressive decrease of the tip of the undergraduates over recent years. That is why many of the proposals you are putting before us today are redundant...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u230	In your view, the students are ungrateful!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u231	... and are far from those which the Government has already taken and which is still planning to go much further, particularly within the framework of the State budget for 2023. Among these proposals are: an increase of EUR 44 million from the allocations to higher education institutions compared to this year; a strengthening of 3, 5 % from the funding allocated to the Foundation for Science and Technology; the creation of a new complement to the scholarship to support the travel of the students from the places of residence and the institution they attend; and more than 4000 students from higher education covered by social support for the last school year, which covers a total of 82,500 beneficiaries; and the freezing of the tips in all cycles of studies with academic degree. Thus, for all this, the PS has made a much greater contribution to complement the measures already taken by the government to help Portuguese students achieve their dreams. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u232	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Alexandre Poço has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u233	Mr President, I welcome the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. This discussion on the Socialist Government's action on student housing reminds me of a series that in recent years has become well known, The War of Thrones, and in this series the famous phrase, which in recent years has also become quite known, which is « winter coming» — « winter is there ». But, indeed, we all expected this to happen, except for the socialist government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u234	Let's go to the facts: we're in mid-October, the school year started more than a month ago, and what is the Socialist Party's government saying about housing today, and we're not going to talk about the national plan, what do I leave for later? With regard to accommodation, the Government is saying—and is moving forward with a proposal that the PSD has made for several years—which is engaged with Movijovem — Youth Mobility, Public Interest Cooperative Limited Responsibility, which holds the Youth Pousadas, with the authorities, with the Youth Pousadas, with the social institutions, with private accommodation, which makes a contract, a collective agreement so that more beds can be made. [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] Until why, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we must remember that when the National Plan for Higher Education Housing was made in 2018 there was this promise. And yet, we know very well that someone who started higher education in 2018, with this promise of a strengthening of thousands of beds by 2022 — which has not been realized, we are with the same number of beds in public residences — probably the overwhelming majority, even has been fired. And now we are in 2022 and what we know is that the promise for 2026 results from the fact that if someone enters higher education today and needs a bed today, it is likely that higher education is finished when and if the PS and the socialist government succeed in fulfilling their promise. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u235	But, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the National Plan for Higher Education Housing had an increased allocation. The PS is likely to say today that they were very significant resources and that it is only now that you can have that financial money to fulfill this promise of thousands and thousands of beds until 2026. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, fulfilling this plan represents 14 % of what you have spat out in the Portuguese Air Transport (TAP ) to save the company... [[PSD applause.]] [[Hey!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u236	...and that has to be very clear. It must be very clear that you, indeed, prefer to bury 3200 million euros in the TAP rather than helping our country's future and investing in new generations. [[PSD applause.]] And what reality do we have today? The reality we have today is that of students placed but displaced. Indeed, compared to 2021, we have fewer than 9000 placed and within those who are placed, 10 % did not register. That is to say, early on, school leaving; soon at the beginning they are students who do not enter higher education. [[It's true!]] [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u237	So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what the government is doing in October was supposed to have done by the end of the school year. It is not to come to October and answer the PSD Parliamentary Group that is now trying to make a collective agreement and contract with Movijovem and with the institutions that exist in society, because indeed, as I said earlier, « winter was there ». ‘Winter is coming’ and the PS did not see, the PS did nothing and the government did not respond. And every time we have this debate, the answer is: we're going to have another 15 000 beds in 2026. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, force your government to act. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u238	They force your government to make a decision, because it is today that students need a home; it is today, in September, October and November, it is not to be in March, when the school year is already walking towards the end, that we will finally have an agreement with the Movijovem, with an authority or with private accommodation. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] Therefore, they comply with what they say they are now starting to discuss—following a PSD proposal—because, indeed, it has been a complete disaster on the subject of student housing. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u239	So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I end with something that is increasingly evident: the longer the PS government is in the exercise of its functions, the less it does and the less it does, the more it promises for the future. Indeed, this is how we are:... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u240	...more government, less action; less action, more promises. It is the state we have reached in the accommodation and in many other subjects. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u241	I now give the floor to Mrs Rita Matias for an intervention on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u242	Mr. President and Mr. Members: It is always curious to hear the Socialist Party talk about young people and boast of what should be ashamed. Mrs. Eunice Pratas comes here to say that it is a great pride, because they have attributed more scholarships. But you know what? Mrs. Member, the number of candidates for scholarships has hit records. And you know why? It's because the only thing the Socialist Party knows how to do is multiply the poor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u243	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u244	Therefore, families need scholarships, because they have no way of having their children in higher education. [[Congrats from the CH.]] And you know what? For the whole list of small achievements you presented, I have here a proportional list of small disasters that have occurred in the lives of students. For example, more than 10 % of students who entered higher education this year did not register because they do not have economic conditions. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] But I say more, she says with a very bright air: « Soon, there are limitations that need to be overcome», but let me say this to the young people who were unable to enter higher education this year.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u245	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u246	You will say this to the families who have to tell their children this year: "Sorry, you can't go to study for higher education, because I need you to work with me. , as is 19 % of young Portuguese. In conclusion, to the parties who come here to talk about populist parties—it is a bit tired of this speech—it must be said that at least the coming up comes with concrete proposals for debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u247	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u248	The arrival does not come with mere recommendations. So come play seriously and then criticize others. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u249	To close the debate, Mrs Joana Mortágua of BE has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u250	Mr. President and Mr. Members : We entered the second decade of the 21st century...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u251	You're not, you're in the 20th century yet!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u252	... with the illusion that qualifications would be an unstoppable path, Portugal would be an increasingly and increasingly qualified country. This is not the reality of today, nor is it the reality that threatens to be that of the future, with the levels of drop-out we have today. And Portugal has a strategic decision to make: whether it is the country which is responsible for low wages, for wage devaluation — and this has much more to do with the discussion we had recently about the national minimum wage — or whether it is the country which is responsible for qualifications. If you want to be the country that competes for qualifications, you must look today at the risks that threaten higher education and the risks of drop-out in higher education. The perfect storm that this inflationist crisis will create is that, before the choice between putting food on the table and paying the bills at the end of the month and having one, two or three children studying in college, families are forced to take their children out of college. The perfect storm is that this choice is once again a real, daily, day-to-day choice of many Portuguese families and that the country suffers from it. The reality that threatens students today in higher education is that they cannot find accommodation, because the National Plan of Higher Education Accommodation that the government promises does not exist, does not exist! For the generation you are studying today there is no such thing! The housing plan that exists today, in reality, is the one of the announcements we see — like this one I have in front of me — of spending less than 10 m2. And I remember that the minimum considered human rights for a prisoner in a cell is 7 m2. Guests, rooms with less than 10 m2 in a house with more than 15 people, with four bathrooms, 250 € / room, is the accommodation plan that really exists, when there is offer. And often, there's no offer. We came from the times when the people sang, in the 1970s, for their originality, the Group of Cultural Action, « Houses yes, barracks no», to now we have our students shouting « houses yes, expenses no». So in the face of this emergency students have nowhere to live, if they don't have to pay their expenses, we propose to go look for houses, accommodation where they exist. We must remember that we are facing an emergency, as has already happened in the time of the pandemic, in which we would use the tourist accommodation to accommodate those in need. [[Protests by PSD Member Alexandre Poço and IL Member Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]] The choice of emergency is now, at this time when there are students dropping out of higher education because they can't afford the expenses, because there's no home. Now, at this point, what is essential? Is it to guarantee tourism or is it to guarantee the right of these students to continue in higher education? What is essential for rights and what is essential for the country? From that point of view, we know what the Left Block response is.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u253	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u254	We also know what the answer to the Liberal Initiative is. With regard to the Socialist Party, I just wanted to say the following: the Socialist Party may consider our proposals redundant. I doubt it and we will see the vote if that is the case. There is one thing I guarantee: students—and they will be more than 10 % giving up in the first year—who cannot study in universities in Portugal, who have to give up their studies, do not think that the Left Block proposals are redundant; they do not think that the possibility of studying in higher education is redundant. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u255	We have thus concluded point four of our agenda. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to interrupt very briefly. We will resume our work at 17 hours and 50 minutes exact, to point five. I'm sorry, but I'm on a monopoly regime in the presidency. [[It was 17 hours and 44 minutes.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. [[It was 17 hours and 50 minutes.]] Mrs. Members, let us resume our work, with the appreciation, in item 5 of our agenda, of Bill No. 221 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Ensures the maintenance of the protection of shops with history that have passed to NRAU until December 31, 2027, amending Law No 42 / 2017 of June 14, and 236 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates an autonomous lease regime for economic, association and cultural activities. To submit Bill No. 221 / XV / 1. the, has the floor Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u256	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Local and traditional trade plays a fundamental and structural role in the lives of cities, incorporating traces that are distinctive, characteristic traits, identifiers of the cultural matrix and the imaginary of its residents but also visitors. Public policies aimed at supporting these economic activities, dynamizers of urban centres, job creations and sources of investment attraction and visitors, are fundamental to valuing the endogenous resources that enrich urban mesh and, in general, the life of our cities. That is why the Socialist Party has come to implement policies that address these failures, insofar as the New Urban Rent Regime (NRAU), particularly in its drafting as a result of the changes introduced in 2012 and 2014, did not include any devices aimed at ensuring the protection of traditional local trade, when it is characterized by striking characteristics, identifying traces of the historical and cultural experiences of cities. That is why we introduced and passed a bill in this Assembly of the Republic to define a classification and protection regime for relevant institutions and institutions of historical and cultural interest, assigning to municipal chambers the competence to classify a commercial establishment or non-profit entity as of local historical and cultural interest, according to criteria defined in municipal regulations — assigning this autonomy to local power — related to its activity, material and immaterial heritage and cultural and historical heritage. Thanks to this law, the city of Porto has already classified more than 100 establishments and the city of Lisbon has already classified more than 160 establishments, among many others in all cities of the country where this reality is relevant. Now we need to continue this work, preserve what we achieved and strengthen the protection of historical shops against evictions until the end of 2027, completing a norm that was not subject to extension in the State Budget for 2022. The 2017 law has determined that establishments recognised as entities of local historical and cultural or social interest cannot be subject to the New Urban Rent Scheme for a period of five years from the entry into force of that law, unless agreed between the parties. However, recognizing the need to maintain protection for a longer period of time, Article 228. the State Budget for 2022 extended that period for approximately five years, until 31 December 2027, and in cases where the lease contracts have transferred to the New Urban Rent Scheme, the law establishes the same five years period, which, however, was not subject to extension in the norm that I have already referred to in the State Budget for this year. The PS project presented here aims, in a synthetic way, to guard the same protection scale, also extending, in these cases, the deadline until December 31, 2027, not only given the importance of the preservation of historical establishments, but also the unexpected constraints with which these establishments have been confronted in the last two years. If this diploma is approved, as will be the case, you cannot oppose the renewal of the new contract, concluded in the light of the New Urban Rent Regime, until 31 December 2027, in respect of the buildings whose leases have moved to the new scheme, in accordance with the applicable law. We believe that this is a balanced position, which justly safeguards the interests between the parties, preserving the historic establishments of real estate that, unfortunately, we watch in other areas, in our main cities, thus responding, with this project, to a collective feeling that is well expressed by the support that this policy has had from the left to the right, in authorities of different political colors, in economic agents and in traders' associations, consensus that we hope to reflect in this House, in the debate and voting of our project. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u257	To submit Bill No. 236 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates an autonomous lease regime for economic, association and cultural activities, now speaks Mr João Dias of his parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u258	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The existence of an urban lease scheme, which joins in one of the housing and non-residential leases alone, does not consider the substantial differences in the characteristics of these two types of leases and does not meet the specificities of each. For this reason, the CFP brings up a proposal for the creation of an autonomous lease regime for economic, association and cultural activities, which includes industry, trade, the exercise of liberal professions and other activities of a cultural, recreational, social or association solidarity. Mrs. Members are activities that require investments, which can be very significant for those who do them, who create and maintain jobs, who meet the needs of the populations in many situations of proximity, and hence the place where these activities are carried out is not indifferent, given the relationship that often creates directly with the community. We therefore propose a lease scheme which guarantees stability by setting an additional five-year contract period; automatic renewal of contracts which are subject to a minimum of five years; declaration of contracts with a minimum of three years notice; compensation for unilateral denunciation or opposition to the renewal of the contract by the owner without invoking any reason other than the manifestation of his will, whose amount takes account of the obligations with the workers, the return of received and unused funding or the unimpeded costs of works carried out by the renter in the lease and which value it; clarification of the arrangements for the transfer, the termination of the contractual position and the disposal of the holding of establishments, and the succession of death to all those who continue to pursue the business activity, including the workers of the establishment. The urban lease scheme imposed by the PSD-CDS government, which has been known as the « layoff law », is responsible for the failure of many micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, small trading establishments and even the closure of collectives, either by limiting the duration of lease contracts incompatible with the exercise of these activities or by facilitating the clearance process. at the same time, the legislation in force favored speculation in the real estate sector, whose effects have negative consequences, especially in micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, many decades of activity, rooted in the social fabric of which they were part.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u259	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u260	The change of location from a small store is an element of enormous disturbance, because the place where the activity is carried out actually makes the difference. You already have your clientele, there are habits, tastes and preferences that are lost. The collectivities, clubs and cultural associations, some hundred years old, are part of the history and identity of the communities in which they enter and continue to confront processes that can lead to their closure.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u261	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u262	These are situations that lead to the decharacterization of cities and public space, but also to a loss of experiences, which leads to the impoverishment of the life and dynamics of the localities. On the proposal of the PS to extend the protection of shops with history, we do not oppose it, but we continue to consider that it is insufficient in its scope, by leaving out many small commercial establishments and traditional trade. We believe that a solution is needed to respond and safeguard the activity of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and to safeguard jobs. The proposal to create an autonomous lease regime, as proposed by the CFP, of economic, association and cultural activities gives a broader and definitive response, gives more stability and guarantees to the tenant. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u263	For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Marcia Passos, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u264	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: We appreciate two initiatives that deserve some comments today. As part of the State budget for 2022, the Government — because it did not and did not have effective proposals for housing — has again proposed the extension of the contract deadlines until 2027. These deadlines began in 2012 and have been extended successively, creating total instability in contracts. Having approved the State budget for 2022, the Government has seen that it has forgotten to extend another deadline and the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, giving the government a hand — and of course we see the form, but the content is sad – has extended a period which has been forgotten. And in the name of what? Allegedly, in the name of the protection of shops with history and the preservation of historical establishments. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not true. Do you know why this attempt to extend beyond this deadline is happening? Because under the regime of protection of historical establishments, a law of 2017 and the Socialist Party, it is the responsibility of the State — I repeat, Mrs. Members, it is up to the State — to ensure annually the existence of national programmes to encourage their protection. What are these programs? What were they? How many? Results? We don't know anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u265	It's the PRR!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u266	It is also the responsibility of the State, through this Act of the Socialist Party, to create and ensure the updating of a national inventory of institutions and entities of historical and cultural interest. Where's the inventory, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u267	Nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u268	What do we know more, that we didn't know in 2017? We don't know anything else at all!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u269	They're working!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u270	And that's what we're talking about, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. We're talking about the work the government hasn't done. We're talking about the inertia of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u271	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u272	Yours was much better!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u273	The PSD wants to know — and he has asked the Government today — what the government has done about all this, if there is an inventory, if there is no survey, what the programmes are and what the results are. And the PCP also covers this inertia, because instead of demanding, as the PSD requires, to know, and instead of demanding the work of the Socialist Party, it proposes to change everything. It's easier. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this time, the CFP proposes to completely change the arrangements for non-residential leases.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u274	What's the matter?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u275	If the government's inertia is bad, what the CFP wants is even worse.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u276	It's the custom!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u277	Because it's all wrong, because the market doesn't work, we're gonna change everything. That's how the PCP stands. Let's forget the Civil Code, let's create our own diploma— plus a own diploma! — for rent, this time for associative and cultural economic activities. More and more changes to the lease. I will remember: 2006, 2012, 2014, 2017, 2019, 2022 and now again, 2022. The lease is like this, it is in this panorama of changes about 16 years ago, of which about 13 or 14 are from the Socialist Party. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u278	With what the PSD did, we already had some 500 changes!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u279	This is so bad, ladies. Members, who in rent no one knows the day of tomorrow and, while the Country is governed by the Socialist Party, it is not worth concluding leases, because what is true today, tomorrow is a lie,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u280	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u281	... which today is a five-year term, tomorrow is five plus five plus five plus five, and it is totally impossible to stabilize contractual relations.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u282	And what does the PSD propose?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u283	That's why, sirs. Members, as they want the PS and the PCP, not so we are not with you. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u284	What's the solution?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u285	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto has now spoken.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u286	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is undeniable that there are commercial establishments that carry with them part of our history and therefore have cultural, social and tourist value. In very specific and exceptional cases, this value may justify some kind of protection on the part of the community that benefits from it. But, being a benefit from the entire community, the cost of this benefit cannot fall only on a small part of this community, in this case, the landlord. Cultural and tourist policy must be made with the money that the State allocates to culture and tourism and not with the money that you have for your life. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u287	Mr Pedro Pessanha has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u288	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is not a new issue, since it has already been dealt with by the legislator since 2017, with the entry into force of the system of recognition and protection of establishments and entities of historical and cultural interest, approved by Law No 42 / 2017 of 14 June. The quality of establishments and entities of historical and cultural interest has since become one of the special circumstances which can be invoked by commercial establishments in cases of transition from lease contracts to the New Urban Rent Scheme. Traditional and local trade, with its historical shops, has a history that often merges with that of the cities themselves and that remains in the collective memory.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u289	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u290	In addition, it is important to dynamize traditional trade in urban centres as a contribution to the renewal of urban tissue. We therefore have two parallel needs: on the one hand, to preserve the establishments and their historical and cultural heritage and, on the other hand, to dynamize and reactivate their commercial activity, without jeopardizing their contribution to the tourism industry, which has so much weight in national GDP (gross domestic product).
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u291	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u292	Thus agreeing with the establishment of a set of protection measures for these establishments and with the parallel definition of benefits for the landlords in order to compensate, and to the extent that this project aims to keep in force the benefits in force until 31 December 2027, however, we want to note that this regime has been hampering the termination of lease contracts, enhancing abusive conduct and even creating perverse situations. This is because the tenants choose to apply for this recognition as a file to prevent the termination of their contracts or to negotiate excessive compensation. therefore, the obvious damage to the dynamics of the real estate market and to the rehabilitation of urban centres. It therefore seems to us that it would be justified to assess the application of the measures in question from 2017 to now, and not simply a blind extension of their duration.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u293	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u294	Moreover, this project is partly redundant because, following the discussion in the speciality of the State Budget Act of 2022, which has already been published in Diário da República, Law No 12 / 2022 of 27 June, a provision was added under which real estate leasers who are recognized by their respective municipality as an institution or entity of historical and cultural interest cannot be submitted to the NRAU until 31 December 2027, except for agreement between the parties. However, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what seems more important to us, not taking credit for the matter, is to see that the country is currently experiencing great difficulties, at a moment of crisis and potential economic recession, with the sacrifices of the workers, who have been losing purchasing power...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u295	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u296	... and they see increasing their charges in housing, transport, fuel, electricity and gas, and this House, instead of worrying about these problems, dedicates itself to the details of the rental of historical stores. It seems to us that there is a wrong criterion here in defining the country's priorities. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u297	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Free House.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u298	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I have recently liked the confidence with which Mr Barbosa Ribeiro said "if this PS initiative is approved, how it will be approved", because in other benches we know well what it is to submit initiatives, many of them of great merit and value, and not knowing how the PS will eventually vote, sometimes even in contradiction with how the PS votes in other institutions. I am very curious to see how the PS is going to vote the barracks for university residences, not forgetting that, in the City Hall of Lisbon, it voted in favour. But I also understand confidence, because the proposal in question is basically a proposal that keeps what it is, only for more years. Let's see one thing: the legal framework of shops with history is positive, the problem is that the effects on small trade and other establishments with social value have not been resolved, which are closing every day and which, when they close, do not come back, decommissioning the cities irreversibly and no longer serving the populations.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u299	Solving is closing the Freedom Avenue on Sunday, what did the Free want? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u300	in this sense, what the CFP proposes goes at least a little further — as we have to go — distinguishing truly historical shops, shops with history, shops, associations, cultural establishments with a special social value, which has to be protected. I am therefore curious to see whether the PS will vote in favour of anything more than just its own proposal tomorrow so that, in our specialty, we all have the opportunity to contribute and not only keep what is, but in an even worse situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u301	For an intervention, on behalf of the Left Block, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u302	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, the Socialist Party has so little, that it then presents the basic or extension of what already exists as a large revolutionary measure. The Socialist Party is extending the regime that already exists, with its advantages, disadvantages, merits, demerits, but presents it here as the great revolution in the housing market. This just shows and makes it clear how little the Socialist Party does to solve the problem of housing. In the problem of housing, the victims of city gentrification, the victims of rising housing prices and rising incomes are not only students who want to find a accommodation and cannot, they are not only people who want a house to live and cannot, they are also small shops, it is also local trade. As coffee is disappearing from time to time, as stationery, mercenary and small restaurant disappear, trade points, jobs, incomes, small incomes, but also networks of solidarity and community networks that previously existed in the neighborhoods are disappearing. Therefore, the protection of local trade should not be linked to brands that are known nationally, cannot be attached to brands and shops that are heritage of the country or of that city. This measure must exist to protect the social fabric and to protect the economic fabric of each neighborhood and each city. If the PS presents here the extension of the store regime with history, then we will discuss that regime. And that regime is insufficient, because it does not protect some shops with history or the economic and social fabric of each city. As an example, Lisbon, where both the assembly of parish and the municipal assembly agreed that it was necessary to preserve an old bookstore in Campo de Ourique, and did not manage to preserve it because the committee understood that it did not meet the criteria. Why? Because the criteria are abstract, because they depend on decision that is not always very clear, because there is no way to decide which is objective or verifiable and because they are made for stores that are heritage rather than for the protection of the economic and social fabric of each neighborhood or of each locality. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is obvious that we will approve and support the extension of this regime, but it is also obvious that much further action was needed. And we will see, as has already been said, what the Socialist Party will do about the proposals, both those that will be voted on here tomorrow, and those that will appear later, in the specialty, knowing that the PS project has its approval assured. Anyway, that's the absolute majority. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u303	To close the debate, on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u304	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that, essentially, although some parties have sought to find, in the meantime, some differences with regard to the project presented here—and this project is not to debate anything other than the reinforcement or continuity of the reinforcement of the protection of historical stores—there seems to be a general agreement on this matter. Mr. Rui Tavares, it was no misunderstanding I said that the project would be approved. The Socialist Party is very proud of its scrolls of democratic freedom, including within our parliamentary group. [[L. Protests.]] [[CH's laughs.]] But on the day that a PS project is plunged by an absolute majority of PS I think something will not be right. Whoever decided this majority was even the Portuguese people, it was not the PS and, therefore, the project, in this sense, will be approved, regardless of the democratic and legitimate expression of this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, we agree with what you said. There are times when liberals and socialists may even agree—there may be few, but this is a case. And see more: in the case of the City Hall of Porto, which, as you know, I know well, the councilor who has this hairstyle—and that, at the next meeting of the House, which is on Monday, will lead the municipal executive to the protection of two more historical stores—is a councilor who is affiliated with the Liberal Initiative and therefore structurally agrees with this project. And we know that, in particular, there is support from this councilman and from other authorships other than the Socialist Party, to this project and here we also respond to this expression and to this plurality. Mrs. Marcia Passos, you tried to find differences, I understand, but I think you've missed a little bit of the target. Why? First of all, I know the 2017 law very well — I know, of course, because I co-authored this law — and I know well that, in dialogue with the traders' associations, with the traders, with the representatives of these institutions, with the institutions that were not traders, but that were also historical shops, and with the authors, this law corresponded to a design and expectation of these actors and these agents. What we do not even know, after your intervention, is what the PSD would do. We still don't understand, after what I said, what the PSD would do.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u305	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u306	Was there no longer any protection from historical stores? They didn't make this law, would they? They didn't bring any projects here, so we don't know your position.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u307	Do you miss Crystals? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u308	We know that with the PSD in government, the historical stores would eventually be closed, because they would have no protection. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But if you'll excuse me, you mentioned something here that's not right. You should not talk to the autoarchs or trader associations, but above all, I don't know if you have the Internet, because you asked where is the directory of these stores. Well, it's at www.comerciocomhistoria.gov.pt. The honourable Member can go there, it is a national page—of course it is national! —, and may search for activities: « restoration and hotel; ourisaries and clocks; bookshops, tobacco shops, stationery and toys; culture and leisure; sports; health, beauty and well-being; arts and crafts; traditional food trade; clothing and accessories; home, decoration and brigade; services and repairs; florist and agricultural products». But in order not to leave Mrs. Deputy upset, we added something. We added research by location and thus you can see what are the stores in Angra do Heroism, in Braga, in Cascais, in Coimbra, in Figueira da Foz, in Funchal, in Fundão, in Lisbon, in Loulé, in Porto, in Sintra or in Vila Nova de Famalicão. You know why? Because there was a Socialist Party law that protected these stores and we have all the pride in presenting this directory. It's on the Internet. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-20.u309	So we conclude today's agenda. Tomorrow, the plenary session starts at 10 a.m. and the agenda has, as a single point, the Interpellation to Government No 3 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — On successive cases of alleged incompatibilities and conflicts of interest involving several Executive Ministers. At the end of the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the Rules of Procedure. Good afternoon to all and until tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 18 minutes.]]
