ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, we have quorum, so I declare open the session. [[It was 15 hours and 2 minutes.]] The gentlemen. Authorities can open the galleries, please. The request of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, today's agenda on the theme « SOS SNS », has been set. I remember that this theme drags for discussion various bills of law and resolution. The times of debate are determined and it is for these times, with their additional ones, that we will be guiding. I immediately address the Secretary of Bureau Maria da Luz Rosinha to give some information to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, several legislative initiatives: Proposal for a Law No 20 / XV / 1. a ( ALRAM ), which drops to 1. the Commission ; Draft Law Nos 199 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 200 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 201 / XV / 1. a ( IL), 202 / XV / 1. a ( IL), 203 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), down to 5. the Commission, 204 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission, 205 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 2. the Commission, in connection with 8. the Commission, and 206 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission ; Draft Resolution Nos 141 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 2. the Commission, paragraphs 142 / XV / 1. a ( L), 143 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which fall to 2. the Commission, in connection with 8. the Commission, 144 / XV / 1. a ( BE) and 145 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), down to 11. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. Mrs. Members, the parliamentary group that scheduled our debate today asked the Bureau to present its draft law and its draft resolutions by two Members. Members of your bench, i.e. the bench of the Liberal Initiative. The Bureau does not see any problem with this in so far after the speeches of the two Members. Ladies and gentlemen, you may ask questions. If you understand otherwise, there is no problem, we can do as we usually do, that is, one Member will present the various diplomas and immediately follow the questions. from our point of view, however, I must make it clear that it gives more completeness, scope and sustainability to the questions there is a global presentation of the five initiatives, but if they are in disagreement, I repeat, we will vote in the canonical way of doing these debates.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u4	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u5	I suppose you would like to speak for an appeal to the Bureau, and you have the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u6	Mr President asked for an opinion and gave two chances. Having the Liberal Initiative open to other parties the possibility of bringing initiatives to this debate, it makes every sense that it can make the presentation of its initiatives at various times — otherwise it could have prevented other parties from bringing initiatives and only the Liberal Initiative would bring them. However, I believe that it is possible to combine this with the regiment that each intervention will soon follow a period of questions. I do not imagine that any Member is afraid of the questions asked to him, particularly Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo. I don't think that's the case, we can diverge into many things, but we don't have any differences about the frontalness we're dealing with. I therefore believe that this would even help the debate, with greater detail, greater efficiency, even, and the transparency necessary for this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u7	Mr Deputy, for the Bureau there is no problem, but logic is the following: as are five initiatives, a bill and four draft resolutions, the purpose of the Liberal Initiative is to give completeness to the presentation and, in this way, when you, or someone on your bench, would ask questions about all initiatives. If we fragment, what is likely to happen is that Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo will present some initiatives and Mrs. Joana Cordeiro, who is also registered to intervene, will present others, so you will spend time doubling. Mr President, I think you will agree that it is not really worth opening a debate here, because I think we will all agree on this. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares is a man of common sense and with a practical sense of things, so in this perspective we will do this. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in some ways, I have extended this interlude — if I may the House, if I may allow the ladies and gentlemen. Members — for now to announce the presence in the gallery of the Diplomatic Corps, accompanied by the President of the Assembly of the Republic, Augusto Santos Silva, of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Muhammadu Buhari, and of its delegation, a high-level delegation, which is officially visited to Portugal and to whom I would like a greeting from our Parliament. [[General applause, stand up.]] Mrs. Members, starting our debate now, will divide the time for presentation of the various initiatives of this agenda which sets out today's agenda by Mr João Cotrim de Figueiredo and Mrs Joana Cordeiro, opening us, from now on in the Bureau, the entries for questions to one and the other of the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor to present Bill No. 181 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Regulation and implementation of model C family health units ( amendment to Decree-Law No 298/2007 of 22 August 2007 in its current wording) and Resolution Projects No 127 / XV/1. a ( IL) — Plan to regularise late payments to the providers of the National Health Service, 128 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Recovery of care activity, 129 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Family physician for all users and 130 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Universal electronic health register.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Degnataries visiting us today, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is a terrible sign that, on the day that the Assembly of the Republic devotes an agenda entirely to the topic of health, the political and media country is entertained by the sad spectacle of the internal struggles of the PS and the fights within an absolute majority government that is in collapse, only three months after taking possession. This is because the collapse that really interests the Portuguese that is discussed is the collapse of the National Health Service ( SNS ). The chaos of the last few weeks is a genuine warning cry, it is in fact a SOS and who decides not to respond to this SOS, who ignores the growing signs of system failure over the past few years, who do not want to reform the SNS will be responsible for this collapse. That is why the Liberal Initiative addressed, well before the June problems, this ruling debate, so that each party would have the opportunity to respond to this SOS and assume its responsibilities. And the proof that the debate was necessary is that all parties took advantage to present numerous proposals—all except the PS, which prefers internal fights, blow into the air and ignore the alert, and the PSD, which is closed for works. Keep the record. With the exception of the Minister of Health, already everyone, to the Prime Minister, recognizes that the problem of SNS is structural. In fact, one cannot manage a system with a budget greater than EUR 15 billion and more than 140 000 employees centrally, without autonomy, without evaluation of the efficiency of the institutions, the performance of the professionals and, above all, without measuring the satisfaction of the users. And only when the Portuguese can have treatment alternatives and freedom to be able to choose between them is that we will be closer to responding to structural problems. But this SNS SOS cannot remain today without a response and therefore it is interesting to discuss the proposals that the IL brings to debate today, consistent with the way of structural reform that we will present in its time, and today's proposals range from the regulation of Type C USFs, the recovery of the late care activity by COVID, the allocation of family physicians to all and significant operational improvements to the level of late payments to suppliers and the implementation of the universal electronic register. The debate on these proposals is even more important insofar as the Government and PS responses are real quick thinking to deal with an exposed fracture. For example, the Committee on the Monitoring of Obstetric Gynecology Urgency to coordinate resources that we all thought were already being coordinated by someone, particularly by the Ministry of Health itself. And, Mrs. Minister, before creating more committees, it was good to know what happened to the 2017 maternal-child care review committee, or to the 2019 emergency services review committee. Then there is a new SNS status which, among other things, appears to be more a branch of government political responsibility than anything else and which is a confusion of competence between the ministry, the ACSS (Central Health System Administration ), the ARS (Regional Health Administration ) and, who knows, the future SLS (local health systems) provided for in this legislation that will be discussed for the week in the Council of Ministers. The Liberal Initiative defends universal access to health care, does not defend the lack of access of 1, 4 million Portuguese, who do not have family doctors, does not defend universal access to waiting lists of others who have a family doctor, does not advocate that health care should be provided by the State or private, defends that they must be provided by whom people choose and by whom they prove to be better at lending them. If the left sectarian thinks that they will be the private winning with the reform of the SNS, it is already assuming that people will choose the private and that they will be the most efficient private. It is true that while there were PPPs (public-private partnerships) all ACSS reports, UTAP ( Project Monitoring Technical Unit ) and the Court of Auditors confirmed that private services were of better quality and were less cost to taxpayers. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Catarina Martins.]] But for the Liberal Initiative this is not an inevitability: in a competitive environment, the units of the public sector and the social sector will have every opportunity to improve and the final choice is, as should always be, for people, because it is their health that interests to care. This debate today shows that there are alternatives and that it is possible to respond to the SOS even before structurally reforming the system, but we already know that today the PS will whistle into the air, will be entertained in internal brigades, will pretend that it is all right and will use the formula that the propaganda machine sent to use : it was the PS that founded the SNS, we already know... [[It's true! I'm moving well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u9	...but, ladies and gentlemen. Members, continuing in this way, without changes and without reforms, what will soon be said is that the PS has sunk the SNS. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u10	For the presentation of the same initiatives, Mrs Joana Cordeiro has the floor by the Liberal Initiative. In the meantime, I take this opportunity to greet the members of the government who give us the honor of their presence. You have the palace, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u11	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: SNS is in SOS, suffers from several structural problems that have worsened in recent weeks and this is evident in the chaos we have been witnessing in hospital emergencies from north to south of the country. The lack of doctors in various specialties, which not only gynecology and obstetrics, is one of these structural problems that, if properly anticipated and cautious, could have been minimized. It is that we are faced with the perfect storm: we have not yet gone out of more than two years of pandemic, where all health professionals have been required an effort beyond humanly possible and that makes them, understandably, exhausted; there is a considerable number of physicians of age now to retire, in a short period of time, and many can no longer make emergencies, and we continue with a huge lack of attractiveness in the SNS for the retention of workers. The government says it's been hiring health professionals as it's never seen before. But what good is it if we have more and more people without a family doctor assigned, if the waiting lists for specialist consultations and surgeries continue to go far beyond the maximum response times guaranteed, if the emergencies continue to close the door because of the lack of doctors, if we continue to face situations of worsening chronic diseases due to the lack of response of the SNS and as a result of the suspension of the non-emergency activity decreed by the government during the pandemic? Oh, my God! And what also serves if productivity in the SNS decreased significantly, as attested by the spring report of the Portuguese Observatory of the Health System? What does all these contracts serve for people if one knows in advance that they are not sufficient to meet all needs? And yet, ideological blindness prevails in not resorting to all installed capacity, of the whole health system, in close and articulated cooperation between the various providers to the detriment of the most sick and vulnerable, the most disadvantaged, those who have no alternative and who should be precisely those to whom the state should protect. There has been undeniable incompetence and incapacity for good management in the SNS. Mrs. Members, the Liberal Initiative has ideas and proposals to resolve, in the short term, the most immediate problems in the area of health and brings them today to debate and vote. They are not for now, nor do they intend to be, the global reform that we are defending, are concrete proposals for concrete problems, which need immediate resolution, and all of them are intertwined with each other and have a leading thread. They are strategic and aim at the principle of good management of all available resources. Starting with access to primary health care, we present a viable proposal for all people to be able to have a family doctor, either in the private sector or in the social sector. We also develop the concept of the USF (family health units) model C, so that they are implemented and primary health care can be more efficient and more comprehensive, in order to free hospital emergencies from less urgent and less complex situations. With regard to hospital care, we present a proposal for a rapid recovery of care activity through the improvement of the SIGA (Integrated Access Management System ) SNS and SIGIC ( Integrated Management System for Inscriptions to Surgery ), allowing that, whenever the maximum response times guaranteed for consultations or surgeries are exceeded, either immediately, the full capacity installed in the health system and the users are immediately referred to the private and social sectors, through, of course, the prior recruitment of such care. We also propose the creation of a Universal Electronic Health Registry so that the complete clinical history of the users can be accessible in any provider. Finally, we propose that the State pay in time and time its debts to external suppliers, as each citizen is obliged to pay its debts to the State. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have already mentioned — and we will not tire of repeating — the SNS is in SOS and needs each and every one of us. We therefore welcome the presentation of legislative initiatives by virtually all parties, with the exception of PS and PSD, which did not have a single idea or measure to present in a debate of this relevance. Of course, we will not follow many of the legislative initiatives presented here today and discussed, because of our differences in vision, strategy and path to follow. But it is important to strengthen that we not only look at their proponents, look at all their content and carefully examine each of them with all our responsibility and with all institutional respect for all those who are elected. And for this reason, because they do not differ completely from what we propose and because they contribute to a better situation than we have today, there are proposals that we will be able to make. Mrs. Members, the SNS is in SOS and needs, immediately, strategy, action and skills in its management. Immediately, this is what the Liberal Initiative proposes with the initiatives presented today, but it also needs, and desperately, a vision of the future. To the left, everything would be resolved with more money, with more hospitals, with the implementation of mandatory exclusivity, with the blind internalization of complementary means of diagnosis and therapy, with ad hoc contracts for the SNS. All this when there is responsiveness in the private and social sectors that, if properly contracted, would result in more and better access to people and less spending on the state and on taxpayers. For the Liberal Initiative, the answer and the path are clear. To have more and better health for all, we must have a National Health System, where the SNS cohabites, on an equal footing, with the private and social sectors. A system where people have an alternative and can choose where and by whom they want to be treated. A system that works and responds to all people's problems at the right time when that response is needed. A system in which hospitals and primary health care units have more autonomy in management, but also more responsibility for their results. We want strategy, leadership and management skills. We want quality and safety for patients. We do not want one health for the rich and another for the poor, we want one health for all. We want a health with freedom of choice. I repeat, the SNS is in SOS and alone can't answer everything. Let us not deny him the help he needs, let us not deny him the cooperation that can save him. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not let SNS die. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u12	We will now turn to requests for clarification of the two interventions of the Liberal Initiative. We have three gentlemen. registered Members: by the Left Block, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, by the PSD, Mrs Cláudia Bento, and by the PS, Mr Eduardo Alves. I therefore give the floor to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block Parliamentary Group for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u13	Mr President, in order to facilitate the Bureau's work — because I may have the doubt about who I am addressing the question and then do not know who the question is due to answer — finally, in order not to create here the chaos that the Bureau itself was trying to create, I will make it clear that my question is addressed to Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, so that the Liberal Initiative can manage as you want to answer. The honourable Member started with what was obvious. We are faced with an absolute majority that brings the country on strike: emergency break in hospitals, particularly in hospital emergencies; emergency break in airports; public school, with lack of teachers; emergency break in justice, lack of magistrates, judicial officers and with the most varied delays; and now, even in the Council of Ministers, with the Prime Minister, apparently unable to govern the Government of Portugal. It is therefore a government that is under attack, a means of self-governance, in which health is also part of this example. Now, I must understand that your difficulty in putting forward proposals that are indeed transformative comes from two particular reasons. The first is that when the Liberal Initiative says that this debate is « SOS SNS », it does not make a single proposal to fix professionals in the National Health Service because, in fact, the problem for the Liberal Initiative is not the SNS, the National Health Service, it is not giving privates as much as the Liberal Initiative liked the National Health Service to deliver. The second reason is that the paradigm that the Liberal Initiative is trying to implement with its proposals has already been followed by the government. We look at the expenses of the National Health Service and private spending has always been increasing. I will give you a number that may be strange but that is true: 40 % of the SNS budget will go right to entities outside the SNS. For example, the complementary means of diagnosis and therapy, which the Government still said in the last two years to internalize, have increased year after year. Last year it was EUR 1201 million on this issue. In fact, the closer the PS approaches the proposals of the Liberal Initiative to open SNS to private people, the worse public health remains. That is the big problem in the country, and we have seen it, Mr President. It is that when the PS implemented the measures that the Liberal Initiative wanted, for example, in fuels, fuel became more expensive, speculation increased, parasitism on our economy and on our people increased. Who won was Galp, were the other oil companies, and here we already know who will win, the Mello group, the Health Light, etc. , those private whose profits, in fact, the Liberal Initiative is defending. Mr President, I shall conclude with a very direct question. I will ask for a chart to be distributed, which I will explain, from the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) — I believe that I even like the OECD more than the Left Block, which says about the personal health expenditure in each of the countries. As for the model that the Liberal Initiative says it defends, we realize that they want to escape from the United States of America, saying that these liberals have nothing to do with it and that what they defend is the Dutch model. That's what's on your schedule. But what OECD says is that this is one of the most spent per person to have similar results to those we have in Portugal. Therefore, Mr President, in the words of the OECD, I ask you: how do you defend a model that has the only fundamental difference for that of our country is that it is more expensive? Actually, it's more expensive because it pays more to the private, because it wants everything in the private. Mr Deputy, this exposes the Liberal Initiative : actually, it does not want more health, it wants more business and wants to do it at the cost of the SNS. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u14	Thank you very much, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares. In order not to settle the chaos that Mr Pedro Filipe Soares fears, and the Bureau, in particular, we also realize that this question has been addressed to Mr João Cotrim de Figueiredo and he will answer, but my question is whether you want to answer each question, because you have three, or whether you want to answer globally.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u15	I am replying globally, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u16	Therefore, and knowing that this question by Mr Pedro Filipe Soares is already addressed to Mr João Cotrim de Figueiredo, we now give the floor to Mrs Cláudia Bento of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u17	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Joana Cordeiro and Mr João Cotrim de Figueiredo, I would like to begin by congratulating the Liberal Initiative on this specific agenda and on the relevance of the issue, because what we are witnessing today is a National Health Service plunged into a deep crisis which results in serious damage to citizens. The National Health Service is apathetic. It's destructed. The National Health Service is sick. We'd like it to be real the pink scenery that paints us, but it's not. We'd like there were no people who have to wait more than one year for a diagnosis, consultation or surgery, but wait. We wanted there to be no people who move in a fragile situation to a hospital emergency service and find a role in the door to return to another unit, often tens of miles away. The PSD defends a set of measures that could contribute to solving the problems of the National Health Service. It is necessary to restructure its way of financing, functioning, management and relationship between the various levels of health institution. We believe that all existing resources must be at the service of citizens, whether they are in the private, social or public sector, in order to ensure a dignified and universal protection of health care. When the National Health Service is unable to respond, it is immoral that it does not resort to who can give it. Most of the initiatives of the Liberal Initiative here under discussion, as they denounce and start with real and concrete problems of the National Health Service, generally present insufficient solutions to their resolution, except for the draft law on the USF Model C. Also the PSD, in its electoral program, defended the passage of all primary health care units to the USF model B and also the possibility of USF model C. It entered into force yesterday Law No 12 / 2022, concerning the State Budget, which provides, exceptionally, the placement of undifferentiated doctors in primary health care to address their disability. The Portuguese Association of General and Family Medicine has already warned that the quality of the services provided may be concerned and that the problem of Portuguese without family doctors will not be solved. Madam Member, I should like to know what the Liberal Initiative thinks of this measure, a measure advocated by the PSD to ensure a family doctor to all Portuguese people, ensuring, in the transition phase to universal coverage, access to a doctor for all, making use of the social and private sector when necessary. The same is recommended to respond to the structural problems of the National Health Service, such as waiting lists for examinations, surgeries, consultations and complementary means of diagnosis. Madam Member, do you follow these measures advocated by the PSD Parliamentary Group? Finally, in the face of the position advocated by the Minister of Health that the path chosen by the Government is the right one and that the problems facing the National Service today are the result of a pandemic and a political crisis, does she consider that there is a possibility of improving the chaos that lives in the National Health Service, with the measures to be implemented by the Government? [[PSD applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Augusto Santos Silva took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u18	Mr Eduardo Alves, from the PS, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u19	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the pandemic froze much of the deeper transformations we were making in the SNS, especially after the approval of the Health Bases Act, but did not prevent us from drawing and beginning to realize strong responses to our SNS in this State Budget for 2022. However, we have already begun to recover our care activity, including in oncology medical care services, compared to 2019, when we had a large volume of care activity in our SNS. Also at the level of family doctors — we know that the number of users in the system has grown, because of some variables, such as the vaccination process — we are building holistic, integrated responses that can tackle the problem in various dimensions: in the opening of competition for physicians specialists in general and family medicine, which is already in progress; also in the increase of 60 % in the maturity of newly-specialized doctors who are fixed in low coverage areas; in the unburocratization of the work of these professionals; in the deepening and generalization of the model of our family health units that have given us more guarantees; or also in the vocational training of these doctors, a debate that currently also takes place. Also at the level of the electronic health record, we have to deal with the issue not with the lightness with which it seems that the Liberal Initiative sees it, but more prudently and progressively, taking into account the question of data processing and the technical complexity involved. I still mean, ladies. Members and Members, whether the PS, whether in the Government or in the Assembly of the Republic, does not hide the problems and challenges of the SNS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u20	You don't see them!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u21	It would be easy to fall into the temptation to reduce and overcome this debate with ideological obsessions, but the PS does not face this debate with ghosts, sees it - valuing the system in an integrated way, the social sector, the private sector,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and being committed to deepening our National Public Health Service, universal and equal opportunities promoter. I also want to tell the Liberal Initiative that the country and the Portuguese have already been in SOS during the pandemic and it was the SNS that saved them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, I ask the Liberal Initiative if there is any contribution to this debate that is not ideologically blind and of a unique sense and that values and sets health professionals in the SNS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[IL protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u22	To reply, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the questions. Mr. Eduardo Alves, you will excuse me but your statement demonstrates, to the satisfaction, the form and depth with which the PS buried its head in the sand on this subject. Mr President, there are strong and holistic responses. I do not know well what this means, but it is certainly not referring to the increase in maternal mortality that we have had in Portugal in recent years; it is certainly not referring to the successive closures of various emergency services, and not only; it is not referring to the exit in the catalogue of professionals — doctors, nurses or auxiliary technicians — of all the units of the SNS; and it is not referring, much less, to a latent epidemic of mental health at various age stages, especially at the younger ones, that no one is talking about and that no one is dealing with, much less so. Is that what you are referring to? He forgot to talk about it. When I wonder what the contribution of the Liberal Initiative to the debate is, what I say to you is that you look at today's agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u24	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u25	You see there many of our proposals, you see proposals from many benches, you don't see a proposal from the Socialist Party. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[PS protests.]] Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares, there will be a huge confusion, I'm sorry to tell you. I was very pleased with the coincidence about the analysis of health strikes—which brings us here today—in education, in other public services. There is degradation everywhere and we share this concern and this analysis of the attacks, but we do not share one thing, Mr. Member: we did not take the PS to the lap for four years while we were doing this. That responsibility and that burden are yours. He also said that we did not bring in transformative proposals here, for example proposals to fix health professionals. It's a very materialistic view that people only work for their wages. It will certainly be true in many cases, but then explain to me why a PPP that ended on January 18 in Loures took the resignation in a professional report, which continued to win exactly the same thing. Is that the condition of fixing you want? Mr President, it is not only the wage condition that interests, it is the working conditions and organization that have ceased to have from time to time. Then he says the SNS is how it is because the PS has applied liberal policies. Look! There is no health service in Portugal where there is competition between providers and freedom of choice of users. There are those who have money, there are those who have health insurance, but there are those who really need it. They go to the hospital or health center of their residence and "live the old". He also said that 40% of the SNS budget went to private. Yes, I think that the percentage is about right, including tests and auxiliary diagnostic methods, but perhaps not by coincidence, we know that it is the area of the National Health Service with fewer complaints from users. They wait less, they have their result in hours. That part, apparently, works. Could you spend even less? I have no doubt, but, of course, that is not where quality is lacking. The honourable Member comes up with the final argument that we want to escape from the United States. I don't know where we've ever been near the U.S. health system. Only in the head of the Block, which really likes to mix things up. At the head of the Block, we only want to defend private interests in health, but is completely wrong. We want to defend the interest of people who resort to the National Health Service, which is not working, among other things, because it does not resort to private people. So, it's about the ghost, the American system, the people who die at the hospital door. Unfortunately, it will not be a single case, also in Portugal. He also mentions Holland, where he spends more per person,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u26	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u27	...we admit, but it's to have better health services. [[BE's protests.]] There are my quotes to say that it is necessary to spend more to have better health services. One thing that you cannot find is the closure of emergencies in the Netherlands and people are complaining about the failure of the system. [[BE's protests.]] That is that it does not find and, therefore, on the day we discuss here the structural reform of the health system, it will find these answers and will find the Liberal Initiative in the first line of this defense. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u28	To submit Bill No. 148 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Access of citizens to supplementary consultations and means of diagnosis and therapy in good time and in accordance with their needs and Resolution Projects No. 66 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — By immediate hiring of health professionals to the Algarve region, ensuring that obstetric and pediatric services do not end, 103 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — For the protection of pregnant women in health care and at work and 133 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Mr André Ventura has the floor for a doctor of general and family medicine to all citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u29	Mr President, I would like to speak for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u30	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u31	Mr President, there was a question from the PSD bench addressed to Mrs Joana Cordeiro who has not yet been answered.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u32	I apologize to Mrs Joana Cordeiro and Mr André Ventura. I didn't have that information. Mrs. Joana Lambeiro has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u33	Mr President, Mrs Cláudia Bento, I thank the PSD for recognizing and agreeing with us on the problems we identified in the National Health Service. I am sorry, however, that the proposal you put forward, and that you asked us if we would follow up, has not been scheduled for this debate. I am sorry that they have not scheduled any proposals for this debate because, in this way, we could vote on it already and move forward, within what is permitted, in a more positive solution than what we have today.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u34	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u35	In reply to your second question, no, the government obviously has no solutions to solve the problems, and that is what we have seen. To solve the problem of closed emergencies, in this case of obstetrics and gynecology, but not only, a follow-up committee was set up to try to solve the problem, to manage resources, to do everything the Ministry of Health should be doing and not do. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u36	Now, yes, to present Bill No. 148 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Access of citizens to supplementary consultations and means of diagnosis and therapy in good time and in accordance with their needs and Resolution Projects No. 66 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — By immediate hiring of health professionals to the Algarve region, ensuring that obstetric and pediatric services do not end, 103 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — For the protection of pregnant women in health care and at work and 133 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Mr André Ventura has the floor for a doctor of general and family medicine to all citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : I especially greet the Minister of Health, who is in Parliament for the second time since she has been asked for answers on the health crisis. We hope that this time we can truly have answers and not political proclamations. Let us start by saying that this is a curious day for the government, which came to Parliament to talk about health, but curiously, in the middle of the morning, it unleashed a gigantic government crisis. Of course, the crisis, as we have just learned, was unintentional by Minister Pedro Nuno Santos, and therefore everything happened without any intention of undermining the Prime Minister, who was in Madrid. But here, among us, that we are alone in Parliament and nobody hears us, it seems that they did purposely, so as not to talk about health, so as not to talk about the health crisis in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It was supposed that after the government was called to Parliament for an urgent debate, something had changed in Portugal about health, but nothing had happened. Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Government members in recent weeks have continued to lack ambulances in Portugal, leading to citizens dying, I repeat, dying while waiting for access to health care. In recent weeks, in some regions of the country, such as the Great Lisbon and the Algarve, continued the chaos of permanent closures of services, without any possibility of access and until today — until the Ministry of Health recognizes that it had to place this information on the SNS portal — without any information on which the services closed. Still this morning, the Portuguese did not know that services were effectively closed in the National Health Service. Viatures of INEM ( National Institute of Medical Emergency ) were stopped or without mobility conditions, with thousands waiting to be attended, which calls into question the legality of the state procedure and the political will to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u38	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u39	Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the government, there is no other way of saying this: you have the health, or lack of it, and the death of so many citizens in Portugal over the last few weeks. And this has to be said without fear of generating any lack of political responsibility. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mrs. Minister of Health, at the time we are here, we also know that the emergencies of obstetrics and gynecology of Abrantes are closed until Thursday. But this debate is still curious. We have heard Mr.Deputy of the Socialist Party Eduardo Alves talk about ideology in health and how the PS is the great arauto of the SNS, which does not yield to the ideologies of others. Mr Eduardo Alves, as far as we know, was elected by Portalegre. If I was elected by Portalegre I was ashamed to talk about health in this Parliament, when there are babies born in Badajoz because they do not have health care in Portalegre. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I was ashamed to come here and talk about health. Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, there are Portuguese babies born in Badajoz because Portalegre has no conditions for that. They put a Member of Portalegre on this subject, if it is not a shame, it is at least a lack of political meaning. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Of course, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias had at least the good sense of not putting Mrs Jamila Madeira here in Parliament today. And why? Because, in fact, a Member elected by the Algarve should not even appear, and that is why he is not here today — I think — in a debate on health. [[PS protests.]] And I understand, because, in fact, when we know that it is not one, not two, not three, not seven, not ten who die waiting for care in the Algarve, I realize that no one comes here talking about the Algarve. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS protests.]] But the Algarve has a particularity, sirs. Members, because, in fact, you have achieved the full: in Portimão, the pregnant women are sent to Faro, because there are no obstetricians, and in Faro, the children are sent to Portimão, because there are no pediatricians. Congratulations to Mrs. Minister of Health, congratulations to the PS Parliamentary Group, that was what they managed to bring to Portugal. Congratulations! [[Congrats from the CH.]] It comes to this debate with concrete proposals for the hiring of professionals without falling into any wildlife of contracts. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] Mr Porfirio, be calm, your time must come. I know you don't talk much right now, but you have to have time to talk. We want there to be freedom of choice for those who will exercise in health care, that is, we must end this PS prison to the extreme left, in which, for years, those who spent the average time to access a consultation could not resort to the private or social, even if they had the conditions to do so. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, let me tell you this with all the frontality: you have preferred to do extreme left wills to serve your fellow citizens and health, and that is the most serious thing a parliamentary group can do. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Therefore, Ms. Minister of Health, the projects we present here with access to health care even when beyond the time limits of diagnosis, recruitment of professionals, protection of pregnant women, with the closure of health services, are projects that, we hope, can be accompanied throughout the House. But at the opening of this debate, Mrs. Minister, with all the consideration I have for you... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u40	...I can't help but tell you this: if you... [[PS protests and CH counterprotests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u41	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, all parliamentary groups and single Members have time to make the speeches, so they must respect each other to listen to the speeches with benefit. Mr. André Ventura, please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u42	Thank you very much, Mr President. I understand, if I were from the Socialist Party, it was too difficult for me to hear these things, but it has to be. It's life in democracy. That's right. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u43	Mr President, I do not know if in your statement, you were referring to yourself.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u44	No, no, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u45	Ah! It's good that you don't. [[PS laughter.]] Please proceed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u46	Mr President, I would not forget to say that Mr President is another Member of the Socialist Party. I wouldn't forget to make that statement. I would never do that. Mrs. Minister, if you are sitting in this place today is no longer because of the confidence of the Portuguese, it is only because of the teimosia of a Prime Minister named António Costa. And if I was a health minister and my legacy was 1, 2 million Portuguese without family doctors today, Mrs. Minister, I didn't even speak here in this debate. I'd pack my stuff, put it in the folder, I'd leave, because it was the best thing I had to do. [[Ch's applause, stand up.]] [[PS protests and CH counterprotests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u47	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party has the right to present its draft law and its draft resolution for the individuality it has chosen, which is Mr. João Dias, whom we greatly esteem, in conditions that allow its intervention to be heard. Having said this, to present the Bill No. 187 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Autonomy of the establishments and units of the National Health Service and extension of the authorisation for the conduct of investments and unplanned expenditure and the Draft Resolution No 134 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Saving and valuing the National Health Service and valuing its professionals, Mr. João Dias has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We live in very difficult times and we have a very difficult battle to save the SNS. A battle of the present, but mainly a battle of the future, a struggle of populations and health professionals to ensure the right to health for all. A battle that confronts those who, like the PCP, want to preserve and recover the SNS and thus guarantee everyone the universal right to health in equal conditions and those who, such as the PSD, the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival, want to dismantle it and hand it over to the private, who know how much the health business goes well with the treatment of the disease. A battle where the PS government, with nothing to do and often being the author of destructive public service measures, as is the case with PPPs, is consistent with the rapid degradation of the SNS, much because of the absence of government responses, which lead to our hospitals and our health centers being on the verge of reaching a point of rupture that, at no time being done, may not have returned. from the PCP, we persist in solutions that are necessary to adopt to save the public service of the assault that is being made to it by the economic groups of the disease that in hospitals and services, take to themselves doctors and others health professionals, weakening the SNS and reducing their response capacity. It is necessary to strengthen the number of SNS professionals, to guarantee them adequate working links and conditions of professional stability, valued wages and a career perspective they can count on and contribute to their motivation. It is essential to ensure adequate hours of work, which avoid exhaustion, starting from countering the enormous burden of extraordinary hours of work with which workers are faced. It is urgent to move forward with an exclusive dedication scheme that contributes to the binding of professionals to the SNS and prevents them from being at the mercy of the harassment of the economic groups of the disease business. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is essential to hire and value health professionals, their careers and working conditions, to encourage their establishment in deprived areas and in missed specialities, combining these immediate measures with solutions that can produce the necessary effects only in the future. It is necessary to put an end to the disastrous measures of temporary employment of employers and service providers, as it is necessary to put an end to the competitive and, to a certain extent, wild system in which units and services that integrate the SNS itself compete with the professionals in different conditions. It is essential to ensure the management and organization of competent health services and units and appropriate to the needs of users, to modernize buildings and equipment and to internalize services that are currently contracted outside the SNS with more costs and more timeliness. I mean, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, we must stop paying private people what we can do in the SNS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u49	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u50	... you need to have resources not to spend more paying others what we can do inside the SNS. The problems of the SNS, Mr. Members, we resolve with the increased capacity to train health professionals, whether in higher education or in the specific training of each profession, especially at the level of medical boarding, where there is an increasing problem of thousands of doctors without speciality. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it will already be about 2000 doctors who continue to be denied access to the specialty. These doctors without expertise, since they are already doctors, are the quickest way to train specialists. It is therefore urgent to open extraordinary competitions specifically created to integrate non-specialist doctors into our hospitals and health centres. Mrs. Members, none of the measures necessary for the salvation of the SNS is new and all of them have already been proposed by the PCP and we will continue to beat for them, knowing that this is a difficult battle for Portuguese and health professionals to know that they can rely on the PCP in defending the right to health and saving the SNS. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u51	The Bureau shall record two entries for requests for clarification, to which it will, I presume, answer together. To ask for clarification, you have the floor, first of all, Mrs Ana Isabel Santos of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u52	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, the initiatives presented by the CFP today do not appear materially different from those presented by the CFP Parliamentary Group in the discussion of the proposal for a State Budget Bill for 2022, approved herein. in this sense, without prejudice to the compliance with the rules laid down in the General Law on Public Works, the status of the SNS, to be approved by the Government, will regulate in a consistent manner the recruitment regime of the workers of the SNS necessary for the provision of health care, in relation to direct care and support activities. As for the initiative to save and value the National Health Service and to value its professionals, it is important to highlight the publication of the Office No. 6417 / 2022, which launches the Strategic Management Program of Human Resources of the National Health Service, which is based precisely on three axes that intercede: to consolidate the system of health professions, to promote the development of the competences of health professionals and to improve the environment and well-being at work. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u53	Mrs. Members, what is proposed here was exactly what was followed in the pandemic: more professionals, more autonomy in hiring, more investment in SNS, more appreciation of professionals. It is exactly the compromise that was left to us yesterday by the Minister in the debate in the Commission. The question is whether the opening of competitive procedures in primary health care for 630 nurses, 465 technical assistants, 110 operational assistants, 165 superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians is or does not value professionals and SNS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u54	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u55	I also wonder if the competitive procedure for doctors, having identified 1639 new jobs, 1182 for the hospital area, 432 for the area of general and family medicine, 25 for the public health area, is or does not value professionals and the SNS. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u56	To request clarification, you now have the floor of Mrs Inês Barroso of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u57	Mr President, Mr. Minister and Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, the left has now noticed that the National Health Service is not, after all, as well as they were claiming in the time of management and has claimed what the PSD has long denounced. That is, he wants to allocate to himself the mitigation of problems that are not new, but that are more, much more obvious now. In February 2016, with months of parliamentary agreement with the PS, it had already passed the mark of 1 million people without guaranteed coverage, the number of users without a family doctor fired year after year. Now, out of the equation, it bothers the PCP and BE very much that 1 million and 400,000 citizens are without family health team, but to us, PSD, it also bothers us. In fact, he never stopped bothering. The PSD has repeatedly presented proposals for solutions to ensure universal coverage and to reduce the waiting lists of consultations, surgeries and complementary means of diagnosis and treatment, which were progressively compromising users' access to quality health and in good time. The important thing, the focus, is people. Therefore, the PSD proposed the contractualization with private entities for the profitability of the means of response and activation of the means to respond to the needs. He then proposed the concept of an assistant physician, so that all users could have a team at the transitional stage in which it was not possible for each user to have a family doctor assigned. In both proposals, the Left Block and the PCP voted against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u58	They voted against the private!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u59	If you're so worried about solving the problem, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, why have they stopped the most assertive solutions and continue to put the matter with vindicated left-wing ideologies, above people's interests? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u60	To reply, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u61	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen Ana Isabel Santos and Inês Barroso, I thank you for the questions you have put to me and will begin by answering Mrs Ana Isabel Santos. Madam Member, the concern that the CFP has with regard to the status of the SNS and the involvement that the CFP has had with the progress — which we could still have gone further — with regard to the law of health bases, is that this status that the Government is defending and that the PS can in fact support represents a significant backwardness with regard to the law of health bases. More: what would be important was that, once and for all, this status would break with the promiscuity that exists between the public and the private, and what the government will do is miss out on this opportunity to end promiscuity, allowing the private to continue to feed and finance themselves by the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u62	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u63	This is the question we have to ask: what will the PS do with the absolute majority it has? Will you once and for all put an end to what cannibalism happens in private with regard to the National Health Service? Is this what is put on: will it or will it not end with this cannibalism that the National Health Service is being victimized by the private? As regards the opening of the competitions, Mrs Deputies, let me say that what is announced, the 1639 vacancies, are the openings that usually take place for the internal doctors, either at the beginning of summer or later at the other contest at the end of summer. It is important that we have conditions to preserve these internal doctors. Now, if these vacancies are not accompanied by incentives to fix them, we are sure that many of them will be empty. Mrs Inês Barroso, I would like to tell you that the CFP has never lacked proposals to respond to the difficulties of the National Health Service. The proposals submitted by the CFP had been approved and the public service today would have another capacity to respond to the attacks being made to it. I ask you whether the PSD follows the proposals presented by the CFP. But, Madam Member, there is no harm in what has made it clear, in the difference that separates us: you defend the large economic groups, we defend the National Health Service. Therefore, defend the contractualization with the private, while we defend that we do in the National Health Service what we can, without paying the private. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u64	The Bureau was informed that a delegation of the Party's Youth Organization for Animals from the Netherlands is attending our work. If you will allow me, I will address them a few words in English: I wish you the welcome, on behalf of the Portuguese Parliament, the members of the youth organization of the Dutch Party for the Animals, who are waiting our session. Thank you for your presence. [[General applause, having the PAN applauded standing.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rui Tavares of the Free Party has the floor to present Bill No 191 / XV / 1. a (L) — Amendment to Decree-Law n. the 28 / 2008, of 22 February, in its current drafting, which approves the regime of the creation, structuring and functioning of the health centres groups of the National Health Service, and to the Decree-Law No. 298 / 2007 of 22 August, which approves the legal regime of the organization and operation of the family health units, together with the Resolution Projects Nos 138 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a Regressre Saúde programme directed specifically to health professionals, and 139 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends that the Government encourage greater transparency in the private health sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u65	Mr President, Ministers and other members of the Government, dear and dear colleagues: in a recent debate on health I asked the Prime Minister what assurances he could give that we would not be all summer with closed emergencies and problems in hospitals and in the National Health Service, as we have seen in recent weeks. The answer was elucidative, because it was a non-response, i.e., there were no guarantees to give. Therefore, regardless of medium- and long-term plans for the SNS, what we are now discussing is a problem-solving issue immediately, a crisis in the immediate future. And the Free brings three types of response, which are intended to be short-term, to the problems of the National Health Service. First, we propose the creation of a Regressre Saúde program, i.e. the corresponding program to the Regressar program, but specifically directed to health professionals, who are already the ones who are most candidates for the Regressar program in their transversal plane, which can serve for a Portuguese to return to the country to, for example, open a store. Now, we need health professionals to come to our hospitals and, fortunately, there are many more people who can do another type of activity by returning to the country. We need to have more trained health professionals, but the truth is we also need to recover health professionals that we have already trained. Secondly, we recommend more transparency in the private health sector, because we compete with the private sector in Portugal, but the truth is that the SNS competes with blindfolded eyes. We know how much a health professional receives in SNS, but we don't know how much he receives in private. We know how many beds are available in the SNS, but we don't know how many are in private. I confess that I have some curiosity to see how the Liberal Initiative will vote on this draft resolution, since we know very well that with information asymmetry there is no real competition. [[Protests by IL Member João Cotrim Figueiredo.]] Thirdly, the Free defends that nutritionists and psychologists are included in the family health units, because what can also be done in the short term is to prevent, so that emergencies and hospitals are not then overwhelmed with health situations that could be prevented in the family health units in time. Let us now act so that we do not have to prevent it later.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u66	To present the Bill No. 192 / XV / 1. a (BE) — Strengthening primary health care with doctor and family team for all users and universalization of access to oral, mental and other health care, and 193 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Measures to increase the number of professionals and promote the stability of teams in the National Health Service, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block brings two initiatives that, in fact, would make the difference to fix professionals in the National Health Service and ensure better services to the population. One of them consists of strengthening primary health care, particularly in the elimination of quotas, which are currently impeded to generalize FHS in the country and to ensure the extension of the valences available in primary health care—in particular oral health, visual health, mental health and nutrition— by valuing access to these health care by populations through primary health care. The second initiative is in line with what Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo said recently. We have brought proposals to fix professionals in the National Health Service, in particular to ensure autonomy in hiring hospitals, which the government always says allows, but hospitals say that they cannot — in doubt, we believe more in hospitals – and that the status of risk and danger, which will have a wage valuation, is also implemented. But I wanted to take this moment to respond to Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, who said recently that «there is no news of chaos in the Dutch emergencies ». We are not satisfied with the chaos in the emergencies in Portugal or in other countries — I repeat, not in other countries! — but in the name of the truth, I must point out that the statement you made is not true.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u68	By the way, it's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u69	Just a small search on the Internet to reach two conclusions. The first, about the health debate in the Netherlands, is that nearly 100 patients die per year due to waiting time in emergencies and to recover the unacceptable waiting times for surgeries, treatments, etc. public debate on the possibility of sending patients to Germany is launched.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u70	It's further than from here to Badajoz!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u71	So from this point of view, the example you gave is not correct. And above all, he did not deny the statement I made: the OECD says that for the same health indicators — I repeat, for the same health indicators! — comparable to the same problems, as we have seen, between Portugal and the Netherlands, the cost of health in the Netherlands is higher than in Portugal. Therefore, the great pillar of the argument that management would be more efficient in the model of the Liberal Initiative is false, because management goes more expensive for similar health care. [[Protests by IL Member João Cotrim Figueiredo.]] But we want better health care, even because we know that the problem in Portugal is when we follow the examples that the Liberal Initiative brings. [[Protests by Mr Rui Rocha.]] Very quickly, the trailer, even from the draft resolution of the Arrival, will give a very concrete example: the Algarve is the area of the country where the privatization of health services is more advanced.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u72	What does that mean? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u73	It is not a matter of now and it is because it is a structural problem that is worth reflecting on. In order to see the size of the problem about 20 years ago, public investment intended to introduce radiotherapy and radiosurgery services into the hospital was refused. Two years later, the right-wing government decided that this service would be handed over to private people, and so on, from that point on to now. What is the result of the privatization of radiotherapy and radiosurgery services, which are very important for cancer treatments, which we know is recurrent and increasing in the country? The result was that, in this period, a public service for this valence has never been installed there, everything has always been handed over to private people. The private created a monopoly in the Algarve that, when compared in public competition with other realities, resulted in the delivery of this service to a Spanish entity in Seville. Question : are the Liberal Initiative, the Arrival and PSD in accordance with these measures, which stem from the health model they propose for the country? And now the PS is not ashamed of this reality, which also comes from the model that it has implemented in the country? We know that the PS will soon say, "we correct this and now it will be the same as being deprived to do the treatments", but, in fact, the result is one: whenever we give private people something that must be guaranteed by the State we stay in the hands of these private people and render worse service to the people.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u74	There's no evidence!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u75	That is the reality of the PS government and it is the reality of the choices on the right. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u76	Mr President, the Bureau records the registration, to request clarifications—it is a nice request! — by Mrs Sofia Andrade of the Socialist Party. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have heard from parties to our right and left, negative considerations regarding the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u78	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u79	Allow me, therefore, to remind you of the honourable Members. Members who criticize only the SNS that it was he who said 'present' in the fight against the pandemic. It was the SNS who was next to the Portuguese at the absolutely exceptional moment of our collective life, with professionals committed and dedicated to whom we should give a public recognition for the work they have done and do in favor of the well-being of the populations. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]] Yes, the SNS has constraints, we don't deny it. What makes us different is that the Socialist Party is truly committed to combating these constraints. It proves this is the State budget for 2022, which provides a boost in the investment in the SNS, in more than 700 million euros, which deserved the lead of the parties represented here, with the exception of the NAP and the Free. Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares, in the absence of a better argument to justify lead to investment in the SNS, now comes the Block accusing the Socialist Party of being fulfilling the dream of the right to destruct the National Health Service. Mr. Deputies, nothing more demagogic! The draft laws submitted by the Block enshrine, on the one hand, the adoption of measures to promote the stability of teams in the SNS and, on the other, the strengthening of primary health care. With regard to the first aspect, it should be stressed that the work of the Government is under way, in particular with a new status of the National Health Service. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u80	This is a fundamental instrument in view of the reforms that the SNS needs, from the allocation of greater autonomy to health centres and hospitals to the forecast of the full dedication regime, through the adoption of incentives policies for health professionals. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u81	In relation to primary health care there has also been a clear investment in recent years, which is being reinforced by the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ), in the order of EUR 466 million, for the adoption of measures such as the installation of 120 dental medicine offices or the creation of 45 integrated diagnostic and treatment centres.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u82	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u83	The mental health area, also referred to in these Block Bills, will be the subject of an investment of EUR 88 million, which will allow, among other projects, to create 40 community mental health teams.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u84	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u85	The question I ask you, honourable Member, is the following: does it not consider the time to stop joining your voice to those who only know how to attack the SNS, becoming part of the solution for strengthening the National Health Service and the provision of better public health services to Portuguese? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u86	To reply, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u87	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the question. I must tell you, first of all, that taking care of the SNS is not to sweep your problems under the carpet and pretend that there are no. That's what we won't do, and so we'll see who joins to whom to defend the SNS. With regard to the proposals to enhance professionals and primary health care, we will see whether the PS joins the Left Block or, on the contrary, joins the right, which hates the SNS, to vote against our proposals. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u88	To present the Bill No. 194 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Creates an exceptional scheme of late payments to national health service entities for the purpose of amending Law No 8 / 2012 of 21 February 195 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recognition of the career of health assistant technician, 196 / XV / 1. a (NAP) — Change nursing career, restate justice and value essential workers to the National Health Service and the Country, changing various diplomas and 197 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Approves the exclusive dedication regime applicable to health professionals, has the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I take the liberty of addressing and complimenting the youth of our brother Party, the Pinks! ( Political Youth Organization of the Party for the Animals), thanking you for your presence. As for what you bring us here, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, we must not fail to mention that they have remained outside an absolutely structural debate the vision and concept of health alone. The pandemic should have taught us that human health, the health of the planet and the health of animals are in fact one and therefore policies cannot have a narrow view, quite the contrary. Policies should have a vision that includes the perspective of health prevention, which also goes through cross-cutting policies to protect the environment, animal health and, of course, human health. With regard to the chaos of the National Health Service, it has absolutely structural causes to which the NAP intends to respond. First of all, in our view, there cannot be a need for sufficient numbers of health professionals to search when there are no suitable working conditions. That is why the NAP proposes that the exclusivity regime, provided for in the State Budget, be removed from the drawer and applied to doctors and nurses, with clear benefits, such as wage increases, holidays and time of vocational training. We also want the career of health care assistants to be regulated and nurses to be valued by giving them a special regime of penosity and setting maximum deadlines for opening tenders for the career of manager. [[Protests by PS MP Maria Antonia de Almeida Santos.]] Secondly, one cannot want a strong SNS when there is a law of late payments that absolutely blinds them to buy medical drugs and equipment and hire external services. The right to health is not met when, for example, a law limits a hospital to acquire dialysis services. Since 2019 the Court of Auditors itself has called for urgent action by the legislator, so the NAP, responding to this appeal, proposes the creation of an exceptional regime which is exempt from the Law of Commitments and Payments in Delay of Public Entities certain acquisitions for the SNS, so that no hospital ceases to respond to users due to lack of means. Finally, structural changes are lacking, but they do not pass, as they want to make some parties believe, by opening the SNS to the private business or privatizing it. These changes happen, yes, because SNS is no longer the national service of the disease and start, as the NAP defends, to bet on the prevention of the disease. It is about preventing today to avoid and win tomorrow, increasing the expenditure today to reduce it tomorrow, because health is an investment that cannot be seen as a cost.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u90	After we presented the draft laws and resolutions, we entered the stage of the debate itself. To intervene, you have the floor of Mrs. Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: They call us here invoking that we have ideological prejudices and ideological blindness regarding the reform of the National Health Service. They say that the SNS does not have conditions, that the private and social sectors provide better conditions and are better managed. «Ideological prejudice», this was the statement, but what we need to say here and now is that some people prefer to understand that we have complex structural problems, which do not have simple answers, nor in demagogy. For us, we favour action to adjective and find abundant examples of this in what has been brought. [[Protests by Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]] It should be noted that the list of criteria and methodology for classifying FSUs into three models is approved by a government member's office is nothing. [[Protests by Members of IL Bernardo Blanco and Rui Rocha.]] To say that there is no limit to the number of users registered in model C USF is nothing. To say that within 60 days of the entry into force of this Act, the Government shall regulate model C USFs, determining the compensation and incentives scheme, showing total financial irresponsibility. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by Mr Bernardo Blanco.]] To say that the urgent hiring of pediatric doctors for Faro is a necessity, that the hiring of general and family medicine doctors for health centres is a necessity, that the strengthening of technical means is a necessity and that the construction of the central hospital of Algarve is a necessity also is nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u92	Isn't that nothing? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u93	Let's see if we understand: no, because you don't say how you do it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As our humorist says, you speak, you speak, but you do nothing! [[Protests by PSD Members Ofélia Ramos and Sonia Ramos.]] Against this, the government, with responsibility, presented to the Portuguese a programme for reform and improvement of the National Health Service. Again, I insist: there are many people who are not interested in implementing this plan of intervention, improvement and reform of the National Health Service, with the conditions we now have, to make strategic changes that, moreover, do not deviate from those we always defend. Let's go to the facts and talk about what matters to the Portuguese. As for general and family medicine specialists—family doctors, which we prefer to consider, in a broader concept, as a family health team—in May of this year there were 10 million Portuguese registered in the SNS, when in 2015 there were 10 million. Is there a difference of 455 000 registered or not? There is. And registered with an assigned family doctor? Today, it is 9 million and 100 thousand, when in 2015 it was 9 million. Are there more users with a family doctor or not? There is. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And registered without an assigned family doctor? There are now 1 million and 300,000, in 2015 it was 1 million. Is there a problem or is there a problem? There, we don't deny it! We're looking after him. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u94	They're, they're, they're, they're,
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u95	Second fact: how many family doctors were in the SNS in 2015? There was 5138. And how many are there today? In May, even before the measures we implemented yesterday and will have to produce their results—that is why we worked— there were 5824. That is, there are 686 other family doctors. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Third fact: how many general and family medicine doctors are registered in the Medical Order? It's 8233. You know, maybe, how many are over 65?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u96	Many!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u97	It's 40 %. Is it with those who want to make the USF model C? Oh, my God! Is that what you want us to hire to provide health care in the Algarve? [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u98	Yeah, if they want to! Age doesn't make any difference!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u99	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have numbers and we have a plan. Fourthly, we have 462 potential experts this year. In 2023 it will be 457, in 2024 it will be 488, in 2025 it will be 500 and in 2026 it will be 507. At the same time, we are going through the demographic winter in this specialty, through the peak of the confluence of a higher probability of medical retirements. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] This year at a maximum of 798 ; for the year 304 ; in the following year 207 ; in the following year 96.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u100	What about solutions? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u101	Solutions? Oh, my God! 432 vacancies were opened for the specialty of general and family medicine, and we attributed an incentive of 60 % to 239 of them. You didn't realize that? Oh, my God! We talked about it yesterday. Some of them — 67 — had even more than 40 % incentive, because they already corresponded to areas lacking. For the other doctors, who were already in this area, we opened the possibility of moving quickly to what we all desired: models A and B, within the National Health Service, working as a family health team, with nurses and with other units, in an integrated way, with integrated responses to health problems. in these models that they propose, where are prevention and promotion, what do they talk about? Where do they fit? Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the action plan is very clear and involves a policy, means and a timetable. The regulations are the new Statute of the National Health Service, with a set of instruments that will change the way the National Health Service is organized today, because it has a better organization, a greater autonomy of intermediate management levels and means to motivate health professionals, through payment of performance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yes, we believe that the best payment has to be at the service of more care and better access. On the other hand, we have the financial resources provided for in the Recovery and Resilience Plan and its reforms. Everything on a perfectly defined calendar horizon, with middle officials, so we will be here for four years to respond. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u102	Madam Minister, the Bureau records the registration of five Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, request clarification. I assume you answer in two blocks.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u103	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u104	To request clarification, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u105	Mr President, Madam Minister, I am delighted to see you here, because even when the Left Block was considered a partner of the Government, no member of the Government had ever come to our power agendas, noting that the Liberal Initiative had more success in this matter. [[IL Member's laughs João Cotrim Figueiredo.]] I wanted to ask you three very direct questions, after this first question, more emotion: being ahead of the Ministry of Health for four years, and since you say that you defend the SNS, how does it feel that you have let the SNS come to a circumstance that allows this right-hand use of its weaknesses?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u106	What a shame! It was six budgets you approved!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u107	The following questions are about this set of concrete proposals and scheduled responses. Yesterday, the Minister said that she would provide for autonomy for the hiring of professionals in the picture by hospitals. First question: when? The second question concerns what you have already mentioned, when you said that you would defend the universalization of the USF, then the end of the quotas. When? On what date? Thirdly, he told us that he wanted to value professionals. How and when? I believe that these questions are direct, so I also thank you for direct answers.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u108	To make a request for clarification, Mr Rui Cristina, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u109	Mr President, after hearing Mr Minister's statements, I was clearly astonished, but denying reality does not help to solve the problems. The truth is that in the last four years, since the Minister was appointed, the number of users without a family doctor has increased by 662 000 and the number of participants in primary health care has increased by 332 893 in the same period, i.e. half! It is therefore misleading the argument that the increase in the number of users without a family doctor is due to the increase in the number of registered users. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u110	I also want to clarify something else: I have heard in the media that the Socialist Party is the father of the SNS... [[And who is it?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u111	Okay, but who built and erected the SNS was the Social Democratic Party, through Prof. Cavaco Silva. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] Just go to the country outside, to the country of reality, which is Portugal, and see the plaques of the openings there. It'll be very easy for all of you. [[PS protests.]] Ms. Minister, in 2019, said that the SNS had become a secure value, an anchor for the Portuguese and that despite the difficulties it was resistant to pressure. In fact, Mrs. Minister, what is in view of the Portuguese is that, with its management, the SNS is collapsing—it is dying! — but persons who do not have the financial capacity to go to the private must travel to the public to obtain such health care. The truth is that the SNS needs real structural reform and not promises of vain reforms, which will never happen. The Social Democratic Party has put forward a number of proposals in the State budget so that the SNS will not reach this critical state and the truth is that the Socialist Party has led all these proposals. The PSD presented proposals to reduce user waiting times in the SNS, objectives that the government has badly failed in surgeries, consultations and diagnostic methods. As for assigning a family doctor to the whole population, we are worse and do not look at ourselves when there will really be improvements. In the discussion of the last State budget, we proposed that an assistant physician could be assigned to users without a family doctor, using professionals in the private sector or the social sector. We defend the contractualization between the SNS and physicians of general and family medicine in the private and social sectors, so that such lists of users are assigned to accompany them. This was a proposal compatible with Mr. Minister's statements last May when she said that it was possible and that it could contribute to the universal coverage of patients. Unfortunately, however, the Socialist Party voted against this proposal. Now that the situation has worsened in hospitals, for the despair of pregnant women, children and all the sick without assistance, and that the government is taking a real "bath" of reality, I ask you if the government is available to reconsider this proposal of the Social Democratic Party. The other proposal of the PSD is the regulation of family health units of model C. The Ministry of Health says that it wants to review the logic of incentives and all the contractualization of model C FHS, enshrined in the law for more than 15 years, which means the hiring of health care with groups of private doctors, a proposal that should be extended to the hiring of other private entities and the social sector. We believe it would be a much more effective proposal, but if the Government limits the discussion only to defend the progression of family health units from model A to model B — whose implementation, above all, is dripping — it will not be able to respond to these structural problems. The Minister promised yesterday at the regimental hearing that the Government would review this scheme for the organisation and operation of the USF until the end of the first quarter of 2023. As such, what I want to ask you is whether the government will take advantage of the opportunity and also regulate the USF model C, conceived by the Socialist Minister Correia de Campos, precisely to increase the country's coverage of family doctors. Finally, the Minister yesterday took up the usual delay of the Government in sending the Assembly of the Republic of the Annual Access Report to the SNS, which should have sent until May 31st, and what I want to ask you is the following: can you take some date for sending this report, within the principle of the singularity that guides it, or should we sit waiting for the new executive direction of the SNS to do so, Mrs Minister? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u112	To request clarification, Mr. Jorge Gabriel, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u113	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, the IL has introduced...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u114	The IL does not exist! It's the IL!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u115	... a draft resolution entitled « Universal Electronic Health Register », for which we will have to agree that the possibility of access to user data not only in the SNS, but also in the private sector, as long as authorized by the respective holder, is a benefit to the user. Mr Minister, on the question of the format and architecture of the transmission system of these data, of the IL proposal,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u116	It's the IL!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u117	The honourable Member is talking about your proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u118	... we tend to disagree, at least in part, because the transmission of such data cannot be opened nor can it be allowed to any health care provider who, without more, access to them, contrary to what the IL seems to defend.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u119	Is it also the PS? This is unbelievable!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u120	This is because, in our view, such transmission and consequent access must be done in the most scrupulous compliance with the legislation on the protection of personal data. But also because whoever receives these data has to ensure that such system architecture, where they are received, is protected from any computer attacks and that such private providers operate in reciprocity system. In other words, not only private individuals can access the data available in the SNS but also SNS can access the data generated as a result of acts provided by the private parties. But, as we know, private providers often avoid transmitting this, as a way to preserve information that has no interest or that they do not want the Ministry of Health to have access. That is why the proposal put forward by the IL requires, in fact, to be conveniently reconsidered, even because — and addressing the question directly to you, Mrs Minister — the SNS already has a tool that will gradually and progressively make available to its professionals and users. This is the electronic health register, which will allow access to a panoply of information, regardless of where assistance is provided. Other digital tools, such as in the recent example of the provision of materialized results related to complementary diagnostic and therapeutic means, are still under development, integrated into the Non- Paperless Examinations project. Therefore, Madam Minister, in order to achieve this, I ask you: what are the latest developments in the electronic health record and what is its scope, not only within the framework of the paperless exams project, but even in other areas? What are the verbales allocated to these projects and what are the possibilities for continuing their development within the framework of the RPP? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u121	In reply, Mrs. Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, I would rather not be alone. As for the autonomy to contract, there is a specific forecast on this matter in the State Budget Act and there is a deepening in the project of the new Statute of the National Health Service. We believe that this aspect is absolutely essential for what we need to do. That is, we need that intermediate levels of management — whether they are primary health care, whether they are from the business institutions of the hospital sector — have this autonomy of hiring in their various scopes, either for term-resolved contracts for unforeseen replacements of workers, either for the satisfaction of the immediate needs of increasing work or, of course, for the supply of needs for indefinite time. We believe that, in the context of staff maps, business plans and budgets and also of management contracts — which I mentioned yesterday — will be approved in terms of the great minute and, as an instrument provided for in the Recovery and Resilience Programme, will be signed between business entities and health and finance protections — we will find the sufficient framework for this, autonomous but, of course, with rules. Regarding the issue of family health units quotas for this year— specifically for these territories where we recognize the existence of greater difficulties in the establishment of general and family medicine doctors—they are already planned in the Budget approved in this House, 130 new family health units. Just for these territories, I repeat. over the years that averaged between 2015 and 2021, we created 101 new family health units. Therefore, I think that the commitment to speeding up this process is absolutely clear when we say that, in a smaller set of territories, we assume, in the head, the creation of 130 new family health units in a three-year time horizon. However, we also know that the remuneration model of the family health units needs to be reviewed. This is what we are working on, as well as in the universalization of this model, with the commitment we have made in our Programme to ensure that at least 80% of the population is covered by this model until the end of the legislature. This implies, above all, betting on USF-A, because USF-B are transitions and therefore do not guarantee new coverage, but rather the same coverage. As for the issue of valuing careers of professionals, as well as being an aspect of our Government Program and the new Statute of the National Health Service, it is being made with very concrete steps to enhance dialogue with trade union structures. We always advocate that this was the form of setting up and approving new careers, approving specific remuneration schemes, approving specific work arrangements, replacing rights which were postponed by the entry into force of new careers, and therefore we are working on this. There have been several meetings and will continue to be held, because there is a specific timetable. Mr Rui Cristina, on the issue of hiring private persons, if I may, let us see: we already hire private persons for the provision of primary health care! The Regional Health Administration of Lisbon and Tejo Valley... I brought two cooperation agreements that exist, one with the Union of Portuguese Mercy and the other with the Holy House of Mercy of Lisbon. In fact, I do not know how to react when they excessively try to extrapolate differences from the point of view of our common interest in serving Portuguese and Portuguese. But we won't hire private people where we don't need them! Let us first try to use the public resources that we have at our disposal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We must have the perception...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u123	Who's hiring private are you!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u124	Sorry, it's not an ideological beer! It is a matter of responsibility for citizens in two aspects: the provision of care and the management of public money. You do not convince me that private managers manage better than the public, but that there are many people interested in not giving autonomy to public managers, so that this opens the way to other approaches, that I have already understood. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD MP Protests Rui Cristina.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u125	Let us be honest and clear: we will resort, whenever necessary, as stated in the new Health Bases Law. On the SNS report, you are absolutely right. The establishment of the SNS Executive Directorate will not be necessary until the end of July the report will be here. We're missing, once again, what I'm sorry about.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u126	Of course! They're always missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u127	It is true, it is always a document that is late. As regards the last intervention addressed to me on the issue of electronic health registration, which we call « Single Clinical Process of the User », this is of course a priority of this Government. The digital transition in health has EUR 300 million allocated, and yesterday I was told that we didn't see where we were spending them. Answer : it is in instruments of this type. They don't see each other soon, they just see each other later. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u128	To make a request for clarification, I now give the floor to Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, from the IL. [[IL rice.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u129	Thank you very much, Mr President, for giving me the floor. Madam Minister, I welcome your presence because it is another opportunity to try to get answers that we did not get yesterday at the regiment hearing. Above all, it was an opportunity to cause a jealous attack on the Left Block — that is why it has already been worth it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u130	Ah, they always share! They always share!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u131	But, Madam Minister, for those who said that he was talking about action and that he did not like adjective, let me tell him that he resorted: to insinuation, saying that "there are people who don't want to go ahead of the changes to be made" — we must not be sure, because our only interest is that people are treated in time and good; to manipulation, saying that the promise, that it was only a few months ago, of having zero Portuguese without a family doctor, became the promise to have at least one Portuguese with a family doctor; and above all, to discrimination. So, the age of doctors is determining whether or not they are available to do services in the USF type C, Mr. Minister? Is that the determination? Is the government that is defending active aging the same thing as it now says that, because of an age, there are doctors who will not be interested in type C?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u132	It wasn't meant to! It's the phrase of the day.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u133	The question I have to ask you, however, is not that, Minister. My question is about the SNS Statute and the CEO ( chief executive officer) of the SNS, who, as read in the documentation that the government has made available, will be « responsible for coordinating the care response, ensuring the functioning of the SNS network, monitoring the performance and response of the SNS, promoting the participation of citizens and representing the SNS ». I hope that this entity and this person who comes to occupy this place will have all the autonomy to do all this, of the utmost importance! But the question I ask is: if the CEO or the CEO of the SNS come to have autonomy to do all this, what is the use of the Ministry of Health? And if you don't have autonomy to do all this, what does the SNS CEO serve? [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u134	You now have the floor to ask for clarification on behalf of the CFP, Mr João Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u135	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you three questions. One of them has to do with health professionals, with the appreciation of their careers and pay conditions. Let me tell you that this is not structural, Mrs. Minister, this is basic. The CFP argues that the starting point must be what workers present, what they claim and that trade union structures have shown to the Ministry. The Minister for Finance has already said that the problem is not financial, therefore, Minister, I ask you: what is the reason why he does not heed the claims of wage valuation and the careers of health professionals? In the moments when we needed them, everyone hit them, today, when they need us, we turned their backs and left them with the same angry careers and precarious wages. in this sense, I also want to ask you about a matter that is decisive to break with the fragility of the National Health Service: facilities and equipment. Madam Minister, how does it justify that in 20 years they have closed or closed more than 4000 hospital beds? In the same period, the private opened more than 3000 beds. Tell us there, Minister, if this is not the private use of the weakening of the National Health Service?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u136	Exactly! [[Protests by IL Member João Cotrim Figueiredo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u137	Moreover, the Minister has submitted information that needs to be clarified. He said that the number of 5138 general medical doctors increased to 5824, Mrs. Minister, but we have a lot of difficulty in believing in the validity of these data and in them being the right ones. Why? I will give you the concrete example of the ACES ( Grouping of Health Centres) of Lower Alentejo, in Beja. It says on the website of the transparency of the National Health Service that we have only 13,000 users without a family doctor. Do you know how many doctors are needed for 13,000 non-family users? Eight. Do you know how many missing vacancies Mrs. Minister, still yesterday, told you that she was going to open for the ACES of Lower Alentejo? Ten. Do you know how many doctors we need in the National Health Service, Low Alentejo, in primary health care? 30 to 40. Tell us there, then, if we only have 13,000 users without a family doctor! We have to have a lot more. We have doubts about the data presented, either on the transparency website or on the BI (Identity Card) of primary health care, which are not reliable, and it is required that the Government present valid data so that, on their basis, we can work out the necessary measures to respond to the difficulties posed to the National Health Service. So, Minister, tell us there: indeed, what are the data we should trust? in those who present us publicly or in those of the population, who feel that they do not have the answer they deserved in the National Health Service? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u138	To answer, you have the floor to Ms.Minister of Health, Marta Temido.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo says that I question whether specialists in general and family medicine over 65 years of age can be hired. I never put it in question, but I do comply with legislation, a legislative framework that, in particular — and I do not understand these details — for the purpose of urgent work, allocates certain exemptions from nighttime or daytime urgency. So, I'm just shaping the way we can organize the answers, because the Ministry of Health defines policies, but does not do it as abstract. The Ministry of Health defines policies that originate from a legal framework, a social framework, a financial framework, and cannot only present inconsequential proposals. To rule is that. Different things will be managed, as executive direction, the National Health Service. Why? Because, over these years, especially during the pandemic period, we all realized the difficulty in integrating care, interinstitutional joints and interregional joints. The Liberal Initiative often criticizes the number of working groups and commissions that have been made. Well, many of them were done because we didn't have or have a structure that makes this assessment and that prepares these answers.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u140	Why don't we, Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u141	Therefore, what we want with the creation of the executive direction of the SNS are at the same time two things. On the one hand, we want this executive direction of the SNS to assume responsibilities and competences that have been assumed so far incipiently — for those who want to depolitize the SNS, departirize the SNS and have a more « private» management, perhaps this formula is familiar— by separating the political intervention from the technical intervention. And we also want to at the same time assign to the executive direction of the SNS a set of roles that are now carried out by other entities that have a large burden of tasks, including the Central Administration of the Health System, in terms, for example, of their role in managing the National Network of Integrated Continued Care and the National Network of Palliative Care, two responsibilities that over the years due to extinctions or reorganizations of the role of the State, after extinctions certain mission structures have been assigned to the ACSS. This is one of the skills we want to transfer, as well as skills in access management, for example, not in the field of bureaucratic access management, but in the field of waiting lists evaluation, from the search for alternative solutions for patients waiting for. In other words, not just a referral to valleys, insofar as — it must be said — there are many situations that do not even have an alternative response in the private sector, as you know. So once again, let's be honest. The SNS and, in particular, the government have succeeded — the numbers show that! — that, with the programme of recovery of the care activity cancelled during the pandemic period, the SNS began to produce more. You do not accept that, because you would like much more of the voucher system. [[Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Doo PS.]] The truth is that we have not introduced any limitation to the valley system. The surgical valleys come out when the patients are entitled to them, but in fact we have managed to get our professionals to operate more and consult more. Right, because you care about your users. Right, because everyone knows that during the pandemic there was a lot that was postponed. But above all, because they were also given incentives, incentives and support so that this could be done. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I turn to the questions that Mr João Dias raised about careers, facilities, equipment and data. On careers, it is worth stressing that we have made a huge effort towards hiring more professionals to SNS, which has resulted in more 31 000 professionals than in 2015. Now the time has come to look at other dimensions of how these professionals organize themselves, both the executive direction of the SNS and the careers themselves and the autonomy of organizations to manage their resources. That's what we're working on, but as long as time passes fast for everyone and as complex as problems are,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u142	He's got the unions!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u143	...we are with a government programme to implement 90 days ago. As for the facilities and equipment, just to give notice, we often talked about this in the National Health Service and, in particular, about the program of modernization of equipment, which we implemented throughout the year 2021, with a set of about 40 heavy medical equipment, which, as you know... [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u144	It was practically all implemented, although it does not have the most up-to-date numbers here.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u145	It's just projects, projects!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u146	Data! And the data I have are the ones I share. There is even a great spray in the SNS. Information is not always fully coherent—sometimes due to misalignment of dates, sometimes by misalignment of databases—but we share the information we have. This merit is due to another Minister of Health, who sometimes try to use it against me, not even in matters of ministers who have seen each other, even with the history to go through them, who has managed to put the SNS transparency portal to work. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is with the same spirit and with the same determination that I come here, to implement a government programme that has been elected, a budget that has been voted on and a PRR that has been defended... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...and to answer to the Portuguese, because there are many problems to solve, but we don't steal from them. We have the clarity to understand all its implications and all its potentially good solutions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u147	Knock your palms, beat them! People are in a nice spot in the corridors of the hospitals!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u148	For an intervention, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite now speaks of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u149	Mr President, Mrs. Minister of Health, Mrs. Members: « The SNS is very close to a serious crisis. » This statement was made in May 2019 by the suspicious former Minister of Health António Correia de Campos. A « serious crisis», he said a year before the outbreak of the pandemic. We assume the reality as it is: the socialist model of governance has failed. The Socialist Party has been in power for seven years. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] In the last 15 years, the Socialist Party has been 11 years in the government, interrupted only by the coming of the troika—which the Socialist Party itself dragged into our country, after shooting Portugal into a deep economic, social and financial crisis. [[PSD applause.]] in these 11 years, the Prime Minister, António Costa, was a member of governments, whether as a minister, whether as Prime Minister, but never, as before, felt such a lack of leadership in government. It is the disorientation of a Prime Minister who seems to be east of paradise and who doesn't know what is essentially going on in the country, refusing to talk about this country when he is out there, as today. I didn't know anything about the Lisbon airport decision, as before I didn't know anything about the serious health problems. It is time for Mr. Prime Minister to put an order on his team of ministers, and that includes Mr. Minister of Health. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u150	Oh! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u151	The Minister of Health has had direct responsibilities in managing the SNS in the last seven years. It is imperative to recognize that the government's health policies have failed and that the vision of the Socialist Party for the SNS is wrong. We need to change, we need to reform. If you do not change the direction of the National Health Service, then all the aspirations of, in the future, to have a universal health service, a health for all, will fall to the ground. Whenever serious situations occur in the SNS, no one is held accountable, nothing fundamental is changed. In health, as in all ministerial areas, the same is true: whenever there is a crisis or a problem, the government simply creates one more committee, one more working group, one more inquiry. [[PSD applause.]] Commissions, working groups, surveys that don't give anything! It's sand for the eyes, to see if the topic changes in the newspapers of the next day. This government never assumes responsibility for anything. The absence of consequences for serious planning failures that have led to chaos in emergency services is only the latest example. It is not enough to apologize, Mrs. Minister, it is necessary to act.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u152	Don't ask for that!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u153	Honestly, what we've been watching is everything but ruling. It is the policy of 'let go', on the health of Portuguese. There is not even humility to perceive what has failed and, as such, nothing essential changes. It's all the same. If the Government does not see the seriousness of the situation in the health of our country, as a citizen, I leave an appeal to the honourable Members. Members of the Socialist Party: do not merely defend your government blindly and make statements in love with the National Health Service. And you don't need to believe me. I ask you to listen to the people when they return to your districts, to your regions. talking to people will come to the same conclusion. The SNS is sinking and urgently needs those who defend the necessary changes, starting in each of you as Members of an absolute majority. The SNS is actually sinking and, like the Titanic, the government is the orchestra that gives us music while the ship sinks. [[PSD applause.]] Therefore, once again, I ask the Members of the Socialist Party: do not join this orchestra and honor your mandate as representatives of the people.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u154	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u155	They demand more from your government. [[PSD applause.]] I must say that the PSD is always available to contribute to the essential reforms for our country. The leader of the Socialist Party, Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias, said that in order to have a dialogue with the largest opposition party — the Social Democratic Party — on health reforms, the PSD had an obligation to say what was different from the Socialist Party. We've done it many times before, but we accept once again the challenge. The PSD proposes that a doctor should be immediately provided for all Portuguese who do not have a family doctor assigned. Mrs. Minister does not compromise with deadlines for anything. We disagree with the government. [[PSD applause.]] The PSD proposes changing the system of family health units in order to ensure the immediate change of all primary care units to model B FHS and, in more deprived regions, model C, essential measure to motivate doctors, nurses and other professionals. The Minister of Health continues, as so far, without compromising with deadlines or goals and closes the door to the USF model C. We disagree with the Government. The PSD advocates the creation of a special programme, as a matter of urgency, of waiting lists for consultations, surgeries and examinations, using all the capacity installed in the country. The Minister understands that the path within the SNS is sufficient, even knowing that we are far from recovering the lost path during the pandemic. We disagree with the government. The PSD defends negotiation with the unions for the review of all professional careers and hiring of more professionals where necessary, starting with nurses, but also by doctors and pharmacists. The Minister believes that negotiations with trade unions are a minor priority — in fact, she has never met with trade unions during the first two years of the pandemic. We disagree with the government. The PSD believes that it is essential to take as priority the construction of hospitals where current equipment clearly does not meet the needs and that we should not close the door to potential public-private partnerships. The Minister ended with PPPs, which resulted in more spending and worse service for patients. We disagree with the government. The PSD proposes the extinction of regional health administrations and their replacement by local health units (ULS), with its own budget and management autonomy. [[PSD applause.]] The Minister put the possibility of keeping the ARS in operation, even though they were still unable to properly plan the organization of emergency services from north to south of the country. We disagree with the government. The PSD proposes a new management and financing model, which encourages professionals to improve the population's health indicators, as well as defends the integration of the social security component in health, in order to create a new « Ministry of Health and Welfare ». Mrs. Minister wants to keep everything the way she is. We disagree with the government. Much more would be said, but let's hope it's enough for the start of the conversation. It is now up to the Socialist Party to say whether it wants to negotiate health reforms with the Social Democratic Party or whether it will continue to be closed in its absolute majority bubble. We therefore await your position, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me a final word addressed to the Government. Our country needs leadership. We need leaders with the ability and the courage to do what is necessary. If the government is unable to lead, then let it out of the way, to give way to whoever it is. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u156	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u157	Mr. Eurico Brilliant Days, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u158	Only for an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President, on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u159	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u160	Mr President, my name was quoted by the previous speaker, saying that I had said that we wanted dialogue with the PSD and that we should look at the PSD proposals, in order to know whether we would be prepared to do this. Well, I'm sorry, but the quote is incorrect.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u161	This is not an appeal to the Bureau!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u162	I just said that the first step would be to look at the government program and see if the PSD agreed with anything. on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his reply. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u163	Is this an appeal to the Bureau? Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u164	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u165	Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite, do you also ask for the floor to speak to the Bureau about the conduct of the work?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u166	Mr. President, I'm sorry, was it an appeal to the Bureau, that of the Socialist Party?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u167	Sir, it is up to me to find out.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u168	I am asking, Mr President, because I did not understand the regimental figure that was used, since it was not discounted to the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u169	I'm sorry, but I'm presiding, if you the Exa allows. [[PSD, CH and IL protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u170	It's all worth it now!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u171	Mr President, I'm just asking if it was an inquiry or a question.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u172	So, you want to make an inquiry to the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u173	My question to the Bureau, Mr President, is to ask for clarification, in order to know whether Mr Eurico Brillante Dias' intervention was an inquiry to the Bureau or a question.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u174	Mr President, a question to myself was certainly not an inquiry to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings, made with the broad interpretation which Parliament used to use... [[PSD laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u175	Mr. President, then, by appealing to the same regulatory amplitude, I just want to say that the PSD has presented ways...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u176	Mr President, I do not think this dialogue makes sense. I am not part of the debate, but you have a lot of time to intervene, if you want, but do not try to bring me to the debate, because I do not participate in it. So, if you have anything to say about the conduct of the work, please, you have that right, you have to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u177	Mr President, it is just to say that what Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias said could be set up as a question and what I presented in the pulpit was precisely what you wanted, i.e., I tried to find the bridges that separate us and what unites us. And for our part, we show openness to dialogue. The PS once again, closed in its absolute majority bubble, shows itself unable to dialogue democratically. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u178	Mr President, you have a request for clarification from the Socialist Party. To that end, Mr Miguel dos Santos Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u179	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, we have witnessed with some perplexity the position of the various political forces throughout this debate, which is a serious debate and which tells the country a lot. And in the whole debate—both today and yesterday at the regimental hearing—we have also heard a set of criticisms in the sense of a certain fixation of the Socialist Party, an ideological fixation. We do not have any ideological fixation, Mr. Member, we have a fixation to the program that was covered by the Portuguese on the last day of January 30. That's the only fixation! [[P.S.'s applause.]] But what we also believe is that the usefulness of this debate is even to discuss the reforms that are necessary for the National Health Service. And the PSD listed here some that I would describe in a word: « privatize! There are no hospitals, 'public-private partnerships' ; there are no family doctors, 'contracts in private' ; there are no family health units, 'rules C-type USFs'. [[PSD and CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u180	Don't! Let him die!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u181	Mr President, it is a perfectly legitimate position, but it would suffice to describe this whole position. And there is no ideological fixation or any problem with the use of the private, what the Socialist Party defends, as it has always defended, and is quite explicit in the Health Bases Act, which this House has approved, is that this resource is complementary and complementary to the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What the Socialist Party cannot ask for, because it is not fair to ask, is that a party that has been in its foundation, as it is in the defense of the National Health Service today contributes to its decapitalization and decreditation. For this reform, they do not count on us, Mr! Actually, they don't count. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But neither will we deny that the National Health Service needs reforms. We agree that we need reforms. These reforms are in the Government Programme, these reforms were announced yesterday, and over the last few days, by the Minister of Health, these reforms are in the Recovery and Resilience Plan. And question back: but the reform of primary health care, which, as was announced yesterday during the regimental hearing, can result in an appreciation of up to 60 % of doctors in deprived vacancies, is it not a structural reform? Oh, my God! An investment of EUR 90 million, contrary to what Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo said, in the construction of proximity units, in the establishment of 40 mental health proximity teams, is it not a structural reform? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u182	Of course it is! [[PSD and CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u183	Another 38,000 health professionals in the National Health Service is not a structural reform? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u184	Where? Oh, my God! It's just numbers! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u185	Mr President, it may not be the structural reform that you want, but the structural reform that you want, in fact, is summed up in a word. As for the recommendation you made to us that, when we returned to our electoral circles, we heard the people, Mr President, we heard the people very clearly on 30 January, and that is precisely what we are doing here, translating that will. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why, Mr President, I put the following question to you: are you available to abandon this erosion route of your relationship with the National Health Service, valuing your professionals? We know well what we want for the National Health Service: a National Health Service that is even for people, for people who need it and also for people who work there. this month and next November, medical finalists will make their national proof of access, the greatest academic challenge of their lives, which I know you know very well. After that, they will have to make a choice: if they have a National Health Service that is only a training opportunity or if they have a National Health Service that is a training for their entire career, for their whole life. We have no doubt of the way, Mr President. I ask you what is the path the PSD wants to follow. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u186	To reply, Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u187	Mr President, I thank Mr. Miguel Santos Rodrigues for the issues raised. Mr. Deputie, he speaks to the newly licensed students, medical students, who will take the exam of the specialty and who want to find a National Health Service that is up to it, and that is our concern, but it is under your leadership that the professionals are running away, that the young people are running away, and not only from the SNS, they are running away from the country. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] I always mistrust anyone who talks about ideological fixation 10 times in a speech. It's because they're actually ideologically fixed, thinking it's the only way. Our only fixation and concern are the patients. Our only fixation is to ensure that patients have access to the health they need. What does it interest me to argue that everything has to be public, if then there are no hospitals to answer? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]] We looked at these years of management, in which they were united with the Left Block and with the PCP, and these six years resulted in a Health Bases Act that changed zero for the National Health Service. It didn't improve at all! What matters, objectively, are the results! So, listening to Mr. Deputies, they are still locked in your bubble. He says that the way he heard the people, as a Member, was in the elections six months ago, he never heard the people again. It's good to hear, Mr. Deputies!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u188	It was five months ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u189	It is not enough to hear the people from four to four years! We need to work with the population every day. And I must tell you that, in fact, the SNS has to invest not only in gynecologists and obstetricians, but also in ophthalmologists, because you are objectively blind. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u190	For an intervention, Mr Eduardo Oliveira of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u191	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we are called upon to discuss a total of 20 parliamentary initiatives, most of which were discussed a little more than a month ago in the debate of the State budget. This should merit our reflection. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u192	If the proposals we are discussing today were discussed a month ago, if the positions of the various parties are consolidated in the votes and if we have an approved budget, which came into force a week ago, then what is the point of this debate? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u193	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u194	Certainly, it will not serve to defend the National Health Service. The National Health Service works, to the despair of some who criticize it so much, but who do little or did for it. [[Rice from members of the CH and IL.]] The National Health Service must be a design of all Portuguese. Portugal has a public health service that continues to be an example for the world. And, fortunately, he has a Minister of Health and a Government with concrete ideas and measures to defend a public health service that is increasingly effective and accessible to all. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Defend, enhance and strengthen! The National Health Service is and has always been a fundamental design of the PS and this government.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u195	That's why it's bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u196	We know and assume that there are structural and conjunctural problems in the SNS that have been aggravated by a pandemic that has affected us and conditioned us in the last two years.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u197	And before the pandemic? You're just talking about the pandemic!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u198	A pandemic that has also proved the resilience capacity of the SNS and that, honor is done, has demonstrated the ability to respond and adapt to the needs of all those involved, from the Ministry of Health to the professionals who were on the ground. It should also be noted that many responses to the problems that have been identified are covered by the Electoral Programme of the PS and the State Budget. The Ministry of Health has defined an action plan that aims to respond immediately to conjuncural problems, knowing that many of these problems are closely linked to structural problems, to be resolved in the medium term. Thus, we intend to hire more health professionals, particularly doctors, to respond to the most deprived areas of care. We understand that this recruitment capacity is closely linked to improving professional careers, but also to breaking barriers to access to different specialities. We do not rule out the possibility of using the private and social sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u199	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u200	But we assume that it will always be complementary and punctual, since the PS government bet will always be, and first of all, to strengthen the capacity installed in the National Health Service. The PS Electoral Programme, which is poured into the Government's State Budget, will have the necessary answers to ensure the future of the National Health Service. We need to strengthen the commitment to health promotion and disease prevention, as well as early diagnosis, as a fundamental design of a country that wants to be healthier. We want a proactive SNS, in which avoiding the disease will have to be its first objective. The more effective the early diagnosis is, the more the country will be able to save. On the other hand, it is essential that the new status of the National Health Service be approved so that we can create an executive direction of the SNS, which will be the guarantor of a network work, promoting efficiency and effectiveness in their responses. In order to strengthen efficiency and effectiveness, the different health units need greater autonomy and need a good link with the executive direction of the SNS, in particular with regard to the hiring of human resources. We want to associate the reinforcement of the contract with the improvement of careers, promoting the dedication of the professionals of the National Health Service. In this way we can retain talents, produce knowledge and research and promote the sustainability of the system. Finally, it is important to say that the defence and valorization of the SNS cannot be the flag of a single party force, but rather the national design in which everyone is involved. They count on the PS Parliamentary Group to put people in the center of the national health system and to do everything to ensure that health responses are increasingly excellent. The Portuguese can count on us and we will continue to take care of all Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u201	To make a request for clarification, Mr. Pedro Melo Lopes, of the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u202	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate brings me two sentiments: on the one hand, concern and concern and bitterness. With deep regret, it is with great regret that this debate begins, telling you, eyes in the eyes, that the news of the last days should not only embarrass the bench of the Socialist Party, but also drag us all to the discredit of the political class. And I say to everyone, because we have all been elected by the people and it is in us that the people have entrusted the mission of representing and defending, including me, that I have come to this Parliament with the mission to fight for the patients and for the dignity of their treatment, health professionals and their valorization, but every day I feel unable and powerless to help them. What has happened in this House, particularly on the bench of the Socialist Party, is not at all the defense of the interests of our patients or those who need to be treated. The media scenario mounted at the hospital door has exposed the real and serious problems of our health system. A deplorable media scenario, which is a third world, which is not a developed country, which is a country, where, as the saying goes, « home where there is no bread, everyone rallies and no one is right». Even so, televisions have not gone any further, because they could exude the lack of surgical material in hospitals, hospitals where there are no burdens on the surgeons, the operating blocks closed due to the lack of anesthetists... Still yesterday, in a hospital in the North, with disposable shirts and cloth pants, there are health centers where there are no gloves—you can imagine! — and finding a printer, a toner or a paper cast is like finding a treasure. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u203	That was in 2015!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u204	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PS has taken refuge in the language of the numbers, saying that more 137 000 consultations were made, plus 20 000 surgeries, as if that were not the precept of the SNS. The principle of the SNS is to do consultations and surgeries and, therefore, the problem is the consultations and the surgeries that we have not done, these are our concerns and these failures that make me sad and make me think that we are not all fulfilling the mission that the Portuguese have entrusted to us. What the Socialist Party should have done today, and not done, was to apologize to the Portuguese for failing at the basics. [[PSD applause.]] If we ever thought about seeing closed emergencies, if we ever thought about seeing citizens being prevented from fulfilling a basic right, citizens with denied access to hospitals, what the Socialist Party should have done today was humbly recognizing that it failed on the path to health in Portugal. But why did you fail? He failed, because the Socialist Party has no courage to make decisions. The Socialist Party wants to control health in the country from Lisbon ; the Socialist Party asks the executive directors of the ACES and, if requested 20, opens 5 vacancies ; the Socialist Party does not give autonomy to hospitals ; the Socialist Party is afraid of the word « meritocracy» ; the Socialist Party does not want to pay results nor wants to pay performance ; and the Socialist Party's bank continues to make a clique of support for a wrong strategy, which is making the Portuguese health system define. [[PSD applause.]] Finally, Mr President, I want to tell the honourable Members. Members who don't need to get upset about today's news, because if we had three airports yesterday we don't know how many airports we have today, but driving the country in this way, unfortunately, they won't be necessary, since no one will want to come to a country without health, without education and without public services and we still run the risk of letting the qualified Portuguese escape, who gain a misery in this country. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u205	To reply, Mr Eduardo Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u206	Mr President, Mr. Pedro Melo Lopes, I want to tell you one thing:...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u207	Are you going to apologize? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u208	...come here to this plenary talk about airports, when we're talking about Portuguese health, I think it's unacceptable, but it's okay. [[P.S.'s applause.]] You know I know the SNS inside. I am a health professional, I have been exercising until a very short time as a nurse specialist in maternal health and obstetrics, and I remember very well the difficulties that all professionals have experienced with your governance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But I also remember an unemployment rate of about 13 %. The Portuguese were penalized with cuts in wages and low pensions...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u209	Are you talking about the Socrates Eng? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u210	...and, without hope in the future, young people were invited to emigrate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u211	Keep talking about the Socrates Eng!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u212	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us hear the reply of the honourable Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u213	Keep talking about the Socrates Eng! I like to hear about the Socrates Eng!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u214	Mr. Pedro Melo Lopes, take a deep breath, please. Mr Eduardo Oliveira, please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u215	But it is precisely these young people that the Government of the Socialist Party has brought back and intends to continue to bring back. [[PSD laughter.]] We all know that the lowest investment in the SNS was with your governance and we all know that what the PSD wants is the privatization of the SNS. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u216	Mr Rui Rocha, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u217	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: Mr Rui Tavares is not here, but I am not going to miss the opportunity to answer a question you have asked us about transparency in the private health sector. The question was whether or not we would support this initiative and the answer is very simple: we do not support initiatives that violate the law, which call into question the privacy of data and which violate the principle of the reservation of personal data. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[Protests from BE Pedro Filipe Soares.]] Mr. Bloc de Left is excited, and I also wanted to tell you something else. In this debate they were able to defend two positions: the first was that the Liberal Initiative wanted an American, wild system, and the second was that we wanted a very expensive system, which is Dutch. Let's decide! It is that so much demagogy is not possible and it begins to be a little beyond acceptable. [[Applause from the IL.]] Well, I would like to recall that Mr Prime Minister, about two weeks ago — not so much — he promised that on Monday, 20 June, part of the problems of the National Health Service would be solved. It is important to have this present. Would you like to ask which part of these problems is that it is effectively resolved, not last Monday, but this week or next? And the answer is very simple: at this time there is no problem solved. One more promise that Mr. Prime Minister has not fulfilled and one more promise in which he has left the Portuguese badly because they continue to close emergencies, because the national health system continues to sink. And if there's anything we can get out of here, it's not that the PS and the government do like the Titanic orchestra, which continues to play, while the ship sinks, it's that they can hit palms already with the sinking ship, which is, in fact, extraordinary. [[Applause from the IL.]] What the Liberal Initiative here proposes, and I will stop in two of our proposals, is a solution to the deep problems of the National Health Service, which are dictated by the inability to manage the PS and its government and also by ideological blindness, which, we insist, has led to this profound crisis of the national health system. The first proposal concerns family doctors. And, in this regard, it is important to recall, contrary to what the Minister says, that this is not a promise from the Government of Antonio Costa that is not being fulfilled now, because of the pandemic, because of all the circumstances, is a promise made in 2016 and that had to do with the existence of a family doctor for each Portuguese in 2017. Well, we're in 2022. Who will be, Minister, the father of this child? Oh, my God! The answer is simple: the father is António Costa, the stepmother is Mrs. Minister, who was not there at that time, but already there is long enough and could have solved the problem, and the lords are sitting on that bench, right there on the left. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[Rice from PSD and CH Members.]] Therefore, the proposals that the Liberal Initiative brings here are to allow Portuguese to have a family doctor. If the National Health Service is not able to give them a family doctor until November, the Portuguese can use the private sector and the social sector to have a family doctor. The second proposal has to do with the recovery of care activity and, moreover, what we propose is that we do not insist on ideological blindness, that protocols should be concluded, that competitions be held, that involve themselves in the solution for surgeries, activities and medical consultations of the specialty the resources existing in the country and that, for once, the voice of the Portuguese is heard and not the voice of ideology, which is what has been done so far. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u218	Mr Bruno Nunes has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u219	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we have seen here the mix of a series of themes, we have seen to try to understand who the child's father is, and they shout who the father is... And, in this question of knowing who the father is, the way I see the National Health Service, there is one thing I'm sure: the father went out to buy tobacco and left the child in the hands of the Portuguese to solve the problem. [[Congrats from the CH.]] That's one of the truths! But even now, Mr. Eduardo Oliveira said we shouldn't be talking about the airport, because we've mixed things up. Don't! In fact, what happened was that you were able to mix yesterday's "roll law" with today's health issue: in the morning they treated health to a minister and in the afternoon they sent him to shut up, to see if he said that all this was unintentional. Mrs. Minister, I do not know if, eventually, the doctors you imagine for the family health units came by the Montijo airport or not, but, with the lack of doctors that occurs, I have no idea where you will find so many doctors for the 130 family health units that you have come here to announce, unless you continue to bet on the jobs and, at the same time, demonize them with the doctors of the boards. The task force has no responsibility for the fact that you have no management capacity to solve the problem and therefore it is necessary to use the services of the task force. And I'm going to give you an example: at the Beatriz Angelo Hospital a few days ago, we were in an audience and we realized that the doctors in the picture receive 17 € and the doctors in charge receive 55 €. Obviously, it is much easier to be a job in this country, and to work for the National Health Service idealized by VV. Ex., but do not demonize the task forces, who are trying to solve your problem. A few days ago, I saw a page on the social networks, called Pearls of Urgency, where, at a certain point, you should understand: doctors believe in the National Health Service and believe that one day they can return to the National Health Service, the only question is that they know that today, with you, this is not the day to return to the National Health Service. It is that neither the question of hospital emergency can be resolved by you, because INEM has the ambulances in total inoperance because of your responsibility, because there are no doctors. But explain to people, at home—and many people don't know about it—that, in the insurances that are paid, a percentage of them all are referring to the emergency, and that value is about 160 million euros. Nevertheless, the service — as you say, 'private' — is not resolved. Therefore, Mrs Minister, if we join EUR 158 million, which are taken from the Portuguese emergency insurance, plus the 142 million you spend on the costs of work, we are talking about 300 million mismanaged, between the money that comes in and out. The problem, and you haven't noticed yet, begins with the fact that you don't value doctors and pay them what they deserve to be in the National Health Service. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u220	I now give the floor to Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u221	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: We have already talked about several serious problems of the SNS, which has, of course, a problem in access: there are 1 million and 400 thousand Portuguese people who do not even have the way to access the SNS, because they do not have a family doctor and therefore what they do is go directly to the emergencies, filling up the emergencies and increasing congestion and chaos in those units. For the others, who are lucky to have a family doctor, the calvary begins: they wait for you to attend the phone, when they call the SNS 24 line; wait months to make primary care consultations; wait for months for the specialized consultations for which they are referred and, when finally, they are lucky to have this consultation, wait for surgery, wait for therapy, wait for cure. They wait, wait, despair and often—many times! -, time runs out before you finish waiting. We do not comply with this state of things and we want to start solving the problem immediately by the basis, which are exactly primary care. And the problem of lack of doctors and family doctors is not going to be solved alone. This year alone, it is possible to reform more than 1000 family doctors — general and family medicine doctors — and by 2024, more than 700. So the problem will get worse before it can get better. Without the use of doctors outside the SNS, we are in fact preventing more Portuguese from being able to access primary health care in time. And the Liberal Initiative, which, unlike the Government, did not give up the idea of having a family doctor for each Portuguese, presents in this debate a proposal—as Mr Rui Rocha has already mentioned—that, from November, guarantees access to family doctors outside the SNS. But this will be - it is hoped - a temporary solution, because the final and structured implementation, finally - that comes out of the paper! — of the family health units of model C, because the great illusion of the evolution of primary health care structures in Portugal in recent years is that, as structures with more autonomy and more decision-making capacity are adopted, the quality of the service improves and there is an increasing degree of adherence of professionals to these structures. Official data of May 2022, from the Ministry of Health itself, show that there are already more USF of model B than model A, proving the adherence of professionals to this model. Therefore, the next step is to move towards the implementation of model C, whereas today the proposal of the Liberal Initiative aims to make, amending the 2007 decree establishing the legal regime for the organization and operation of the USF. in it is included the regulation of the USF model C, with the corresponding degree of autonomy, with the corresponding degree of independent organization, differentiation in the remuneration model and more incentives to professionals working there, adapting the model of financing and legal status accordingly. It is also ensured that these structures will have the necessary quality quality and control through program contracts with the ARS that will monitor them, and will be monitored by the ACCSS and inspected by the IGAS ( General Inspection of Health Activities ). In addition, they will be required to certify in terms of quality and safety and to be believed within three years. Therefore, with all this acquis, model C family health units will certainly be an important contribution to improving primary health care. The possibility of having longer hours, the multidisciplinary nature of their professionals, the scope of care provided, the variety of care schemes, all this will contribute to a better service to the citizens of these family health units and, also, in the emergencies, that they will help to alleviate. For us, getting to do this was actually starting to save the SNS. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u222	For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Sara Velez of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u223	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members : I would like to begin my intervention in this debate, as a thematic mix pot, proposed almost a meter, which intends to discuss, in just over two hours, 20 legislative initiatives ranging from access to human resources, equipment, networks, communications, among many other subjects, but, I said, I would like to begin this intervention, recalling the words of the Minister, yesterday, in our statutory hearing, when she told us that it is up to all of us, from left to right, to create the conditions for the National Health Service to function well, with respect for the health professionals and their users. That is, at least, the record where we are and we will never get out of it. The National Health Service has always been a priority of the governance of the Socialist Party and that is why, year after year, we have never stopped reflecting on those that were the budgetary priorities of the last six years. In this regard, I would like to point out that this year's budgetary reinforcement is even the greatest of all. It was indeed this investment over the last few years that allowed us to go through the biggest health challenge in our recent history — a pandemic — without the SNS having broken down, broken down, that some have come to announce and even declare. But no, the National Health Service resisted, never collapsed, as it was found in other latitudes, always responding to those who sought it, having had an internationally recognized benefit, of which is an example the national vaccination strategy. It is this strengthened National Health Service, which we defend in the past and which we continue to affirm in the future, which allows us to have considerable levels of recovery of care activity today and which are evidenced in more consultations, in primary and hospital health care and also in more surgeries. It cannot be said seriously that this Government and this Minister do not respond to the problems they face when, even in 2020, a programme of incentives for the recovery of assistance activity — quite affected by the pandemic — was launched, which allowed an additional production of the SNS of more than 142 thousand consultations and 70,000 surgeries, with incentives of EUR 74 million for professionals. This, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is to respond with measures, at the right time of the problems, when they occur. The debate we are bringing today results from a series of difficulties that are not, at present, structural and yes, need profound reforms to be resolved. We all assume it, and apparently we all know it. All of you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! Already in 2015, Minister Miguel Macedo said that chaos, then, lived in emergencies every year and that it was the mirror of the problems of the SNS. The subject is not new and therefore certainly will not be new to any of us. It is not even a national singularity, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, because the same problem is faced by other countries in Europe, some of which are Members of the European Parliament. Members even like to use it to make comparisons, but which, on this subject, I have not yet heard them use them to make any comparison. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the reforms that need to be implemented to deal with these difficulties, and which have already been presented to us, respond to a substantial set of needs identified in many of the initiatives under discussion here. The national health status will bring two important measures at the level of human resources: first, the creation of an executive direction of the SNS, which will lead to a better and more rational management of resources and health professionals; second, the creation of the full dedication scheme, which will create wage incentives for health professionals, thus contributing to their fixation in the SNS. In this regard, I would also like to mention the increase of 60 % in the remuneration of the disabled vacancies, when the coverage rate of the family doctor is less than the national average, and which will cover 249 jobs for young doctors who specialize in family medicine. I would also like to refer to the ongoing negotiations with the representative entities of the sector on remuneration as well, but also to the investments that are planned under PRR — significant investments, which will create better conditions in primary care facilities, provide more and better equipment for hospital units — and also all the measures that the Government has come and continues to develop, as happens, for example, in the area of oncological diseases. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is the way we intend to continue to travel, committed to SNS and its valorization and defence, to ensure that all Portuguese people have access to better health care, constitutionally enshrined and priority rights, always in our political action. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u224	For an intervention on behalf of the IL, Mrs Carla Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u225	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: I know that today's political day is the implosion of ministers and chaos in government, but here's the issue of implosion and chaos in health. And we have several challenges: how to recover the huge waiting lists, access to primary care, and solve the ongoing care. We also know that about half of Portuguese people have health insurance and ADSE (Instituto de Proteção e Assistência na São Paulo, I.P. ) and the reduction in demand on public providers did not increase the quality of public service. on this topic, I would like to say very directly to the Left Block and to the PS, that both here come to grips with the liberal popes and the popes of privatization and private, that there is one basic thing that distinguishes us: we liberals, we want, yes, the privates and the social sector, but for a question of freedom of choice; you push the Portuguese to the private because of the deterioration of the SNS. [[Applause from the IL.]] Yes, we need to look at the SNS of the present and the future. Our first proposal that I am going to talk about here is that of the universal electronic health register, which allows any provider, of any sector, to have access to clinical information. This is very important for cost efficiency, for there is no need for duplication of diagnoses, for the smallest consideration, for example, of incompatibilities in polymedication, but there is a fundamental aspect: it is that clinical information is itself a restriction on freedom of choice of providers and, therefore, for us, is important. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not forget that the data is not from the SNS, the data is from the person, the data is from the user. Therefore, the Liberal Initiative defends a national health system in which the user has to be in the center. And it makes this freedom of choice for providers—where and by whom they want to be cared for—that the user also has access to their data. The second proposal, of the five that we are presenting here today, is about the regularization of late payments, and it is a proposal that also translates the state to which the State has arrived. What we want is to draw up an early regularisation plan, even in 2022, of all late payments and outstanding SNS debt to its suppliers. The State shall undertake to settle its commitments to suppliers on due dates and, if it does not, shall pay interest on a due date. Here too, there is a situation of rupture: systematic contractual failure, debt of unsustainable value, a financial share. This proposal is part of the financial disorder that this State has reached. The SNS has no financial autonomy, the true Minister of Health, in Portugal, is the Minister of Finance, and the public system is held by creative captives, by a system of chronic subordination, that the UTAO (Technical Budget Support Unit), for example, describes as one of the impediments to sound management, saying that it is to be remembered that this practice does not provide technical managers, SNS managers, the appropriate conditions for the pursuit of the objectives outlined. They have fewer financial resources than they need and do not know when or where they will be strengthened. However, I remember more skills: business-hospitals constitute suppliers' debts, debts are directly contracted by SNS entities and are then paid with capital increases. These are just examples of what is happening in the financial system in the field of health. It is, therefore, a problem of the present, but it is not only about money. Reminder: SNS has more money, more professionals and less customers and a debased benefit. It means that it is a problem of political management and lack of reform.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u226	They're not customers, they're users!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u227	And, yes, we can call customers, because citizens, taxpayers are customers of all of us! We serve and represent people, as many Members often seem to forget. Continuing, we need to talk about the future of the SNS. How do you intend to end the excessive dependence on the SNS of the Ministry of Finance? How to control the money? We must not fear decentralization, deconcentration of power. And, yes, if you have already realized, for example, that the North ARS have worked better, have no fear of competition, have no fear of models such as those defended by the Liberal Initiative, which advocate competition between the ARS. I recall, again, what UTAO says: without a structural and integrated correction of all dimensions, bottlenecks in the care activity will continue to be a reality for users, workers, managers and suppliers. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, here is the question of how. It is that we are sure that there are solutions, of which we are not sure is that they are capable of implementing. In conclusion, it is not just the liberals, it is not just the best practices in the countries of Europe, it is not only the entities such as UTAO or the health sector that confirm it, it is the evidence of day by day, and it is a real shock: the SNS is in a state of emergency and, yes, it needs to be saved, but it is not with a higher dose than what shot it into the emergencies. It is that the path that is being made is the SNS in SOS and, contrary to what they say, the SNS, at this moment, is not for everyone. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u228	Mr Pedro Frazão has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u229	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let me tell you, Mrs Health Minister, that I have great consideration for you and even some personal sympathy. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u230	In fact, I see that we woke up this morning and we both choose the yellow color, because it is actually the color of medicine. But the Minister, who uses the color of medicine and brought to this debate the color of medicine, did not bring answers, which was what we wanted to hear here today, we wanted to hear answers and we wanted solutions for what is happening in health in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mrs.Minister, I am not going to tell you again about what all Portuguese already know, that is the disaster that exists in emergencies, waiting lists for surgeries, consultations, suspended ultrasounds at the Hospital de São João for pregnant women in the second quarter or the intensive care units that have now closed at the Hospital de Santa Maria, the largest hospital in Portugal. Today morning, a note sent to the editorials, by the Union of Doctors of the South Zone, realizes that, due to the lack of the minimum number of doctors, the intensive care unit has closed. The speaker displayed a sheet with a newspaper news. What I wanted to hear is the Minister saying here how she will give freedom to the Portuguese, freedom of choice and access to health, freedom so that they can take care of more and more, rather than kill, rather than euthanasia. We know that perpetual imprisonment is an anti-constitutional issue and that we cannot talk about this House, as long as euthanasia and abortion is all at large, it is all at will. [[Congrats from the CH.]] With the lack of solutions, Minister, do you know what I conclude from this debate? It's just that the Minister and the PS are negationists. They are negationists of what is happening on the ground and are negationists of the escalation of the disqualification that exists in the National Health Service. For the Minister, everything is a small number—as I said yesterday at the hearing—or it's just an embarrassment when people die in emergencies and hospitals. They are also negationists of COVID-19 mortality, when compared to other countries, and are also negationists of extra-COVID-19 mortality. For this reason, Mrs. Minister spoke of demagogy, spoke of adjective, but hospital administrators criticized the government for lack of strategy and the Portuguese Health Systems Observatory also says that lack of access to health care, lack of human resources and are in danger of public health. Do you also think these bodies are demagogues, Minister? Oh, my God! Ms. Minister, there is a lack of doctors in the SNS, but there is no lack of doctors in Portugal, because Portugal, by OECD numbers is the eighth country in the world with more doctors per capita and with the highest number of faculties. So what exists is mismanagement of the Minister and the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u231	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u232	Mrs. Minister, we've been wasting more and more millions for decades. Finally, to conclude — thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance — I will give you a warning: the Minister is the CEO of health and if she is to replace herself she is only assuming her own incompetence and her own incapacity. The Minister caught this controversy on the planes and, perhaps, it should be heading to an airport and catch a plane. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u233	For an intervention, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Health, António Lacerda Sales.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u234	Mr President, Mr Ministers, Mrs and Mrs. Members: Mr João Cotrim de Figueiredo is not present at the moment — there is Mrs Joana Cordeiro and the rest of the IL Parliamentary Group — but I would like to say that, yesterday, in a regiment hearing with a duration of more than five hours — as you well remember, because they were present — we had the opportunity to clarify the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, in particular the Members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Members of the IL, on many doubts about various matters which have been raised here today. For that reason, Mr. Members, this ruling debate in nothing adds to the last debates on health and only represents a political number of the IL... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...to, in order to ride some circumstantial problems of the SNS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u235	Circumstantial? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u236	... make the political marketing number of the National Health Service privatizing and liberalizing fury. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[IL protests.]] In fact, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo and other Members of the IL, if you would allow me, I would even have some care to have scheduled this power debate for today,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u237	Calm down!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u238	... because, if they had been careful to read an article yesterday, 29 June, from a British technical-scientific magazine, from the UK, The Lancet Public Health, they would have seen the conclusion of a study referred to there. I am reading, so that they can interiorize and make your reflection deep: "The increase in privatizations between 2013 and 2020 has been linked to the highest mortality rates, indicating a decrease in the quality of health care during that period. » It is yesterday's June 29th article of The Lancet Public Health. Think about it, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! [[P.S.'s applause.]] I'd say, Mrs. Members, that this privatization fury and the attempt to diminish the role of the National Health Service that the IL defends are far from being effective and efficient and to ensure the quality of the service provided.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u239	This one's really good!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u240	Mrs. Members, the SNS is over 40 years old, with evidence given to the service of Portuguese, contributing to more accessibility and better health outcomes. Even when there are circumstantial difficulties in the National Health Service, the solution is to correct, to reform, as it is now being done to counter these difficulties, because the course of the National Health Service is a positive course. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That's it, sirs. Members of the Liberal Initiative, which we are doing today, and yet the role of the social and private sector and the existence of possible intersectoral cooperation. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue to believe, as when we set up the National Health Service, that this is indeed the best solution. We want a modernized, reinforced SNS with motivated professionals, with means and resources, as we are doing and as we will do in the course of this legislature.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u241	It's already Monday!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u242	This is the way we have it, sirs. Members, to prevent market failures, and we are certainly sensitive to the fact that this bet can be made in the National Health Service, to protect our citizens, our population, including the most vulnerable bands. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I'll take advantage of it, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to speak of an issue which is of interest to our population and also to the Portuguese, in particular to a range which is indeed vulnerable. As Mrs Sara Velez pointed out recently, oncological diseases represent the second cause of mortality in Portugal and the main cause of potentially lost years of life, adjusted for morbidity. I would therefore like to say that today the proposal for a national strategy against cancer for the 2021 - 2030 decade has been put into public consultation, aligned with the European Plan to Combat Cancer, which aims to promote the reduction of the incidence of neoplasias. We now look forward to contributions and, with the involvement of health professionals, civil society, patient associations and the rest of the community, we hope to be able to improve this strategy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u243	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u244	Mr. Rodrigo Saraiva, would you like to speak for an appeal to the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u245	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u246	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u247	Mr President, it is not to comment on this speech, which is no longer to bury the head in the sand, it is of perfect negationism, I just wanted to ask the President to inform the Government and, in this case, the Secretary of State, that the debate that is taking place today was requested by the Liberal Initiative at the Conference of Leaders of the day 1 of the month that is now ending, that is, a month ago. In any case, it would certainly not be cancelled by any scientific article of opinion that has emerged and that has read in English on any website. [[PS protests.]] It was a month ago, we weren't sleeping, we didn't stick our heads under the sand. In time, we really want to solve the Portuguese problem, and when you come to this House, you should report. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[PS and L protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u248	The date of marking of the date of the debate is clarified.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u249	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u250	Mr Rui Tavares also calls for an appeal to the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u251	Yes, Mr President, for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings, in the interest of a clear vote. Recently, the Liberal Initiative referred to the Resolution Project No 139 / XV / 1. a, of the Free, saying that I would vote against, given a question that had to do with data protection and I must make it clear that, when in this draft resolution there is a reference to staff remuneration, the Free does not, of course, refer to the remuneration of the individual x or y, but to wage tables, and in this sense we will work in the specialty, if the project is approved. In the case of any other parliamentary group with the same impression, I leave the clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u252	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let me try to dissuade the various parliamentary groups from making abusive use of the petitions to the Bureau. To close the debate on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, I will give the floor to Mrs Joana Cordeiro, but with the permission of the Liberal Initiative, I believe that I can ask the services to activate the electronic quorum verification system. Mrs. Joana Lambeiro, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u253	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members : We are now closing the debate on the SNS, in which the Liberal Initiative presented a set of proposals that allow us to initiate a health reform in Portugal and provide the Country with a genuine national health system. It's in the hands of the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in particular those of the honourable Members. Members of the Socialist Party, change the paradigm of access to health for all people. A paradigm in which the owner or managing entity of the hospital to which the patient is addressed will be irrelevant, because the choice will fall to the one that is most convenient to him. A paradigm in which we pass a health focused on the provider and the state for health focused on people and on the provision of better care, on the existence of alternatives and on freedom of choice. And because the approval of these proposals depends solely on the Socialist Party, I direct myself directly to this bench. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you are in your hands to approve a set of concrete proposals to solve concrete problems that need immediate solutions. And if you really want to solve the problems of the SNS, this can only be the way. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is in your hands to end the scourge of waiting lists. It is unacceptable for someone to live a year waiting for consultation or treatment in the SNS, often in suffering, with resources available and already installed. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is in your hands to prevent thousands of people dying prematurely, as a result of delays in early access to a diagnosis or treatment. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is in your hands to resolve the chaos in the emergency of obstetrics and thus to reassure all future women mothers, families, at such an important moment as the birth of a child. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is in your hands to prove that you care about people's health and not the maintenance of an exhausted model. So we appeal to you to abandon the ideological bias in which you pretended to believe only to please your former management partners. Mrs. Members, it is in your hands to decide on the present and future of health in Portugal. If the PS is so proud to have founded the SNS, it is time to contribute so that it does not sink. There is no longer enough vain proclamations about saving the SNS, you need to save it itself. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u254	This item is concluded and we are going to come to the item on the vote on the Rules of Procedure. I ask the services to close the quorum verification and to advertise the result. [[Pause.]] We have quorum, but I wonder if any Member of Parliament or some Member of Parliament has not been able to register. [[Pause.]] All of them were able to register, including Mr Bernardo Blanco of the IL, which did so by non-electronic means, so we will then begin the votes. We will begin the period of deliberations, beginning with the Vote Project No 109 / XV / 1. a ( presented by the Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport and subscribed by a PSD Member ) — Greetings to the national participation in the Canoeing World Cup, in particular Fernando Pimenta for the conquest of four gold medals in the Canoeing World Cup, which will be read by Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u255	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Portugal had an exemplary participation in the Taça do Mundo de Canoage, highlighting the conquest by Fernando Pimenta, last May 29, of four gold medals in Poznan, Poland. Fernando Pimenta, double Olympic medal, was imposed at the end of K1 5000 m, K1 500 and K1 1000 m, to which he joined the triumph in the mixed test of K2 500 m, next to Teresa Portela. the triumphs of Fernando Pimenta are still joined by the medals won by João Ribeiro and Messias Baptista (silver in K2 200 m), Francisca Laia (silver in K1 200 m) and Kevin Santos (bronch in K1 200 m), in the same competition. by winning four gold medals in one day, the limian canoist of Benfica achieved a fact unpublished in the modality, highlighted by the International Canoeing Federation, and which puts the canoist to boot for the new Olympic cycle Paris 2024, at the top of the world elite. Fernando Ismael Fernandes Pimenta was born on August 13, 1989, beginning the sport practice in 1993, at the swimming, at the Limiana Sports School, where he trained for 9 years. In 2001 he joined the Lima Bridge Water Club. His first National Title was in 2004 in K2 Cadete and the following year began to obtain his first titles in K1. Also that year he joined the national cadets team, where he made his first international test and obtained his first international medal, the Gold Medal in K4 500 m. In 2007 the season ended with a junior European championship in K1 1000 m and a second place in K1 500 m. In 2009, he won the European title in K1 1000 m sub-23, obtained his first internationalisation as an absolute senior with an excellent eighth place in K1 1000 m at the European Championship and still was the Vice-Champion of the World Marathons in K1, sub-23. 2010 was a year of some boat experiences of the national team. Competing in K2 1000 m and K2 500 m in the European championships of elders and sub-23, where he obtained the European title of K2 500 m sub-23, and at the World Championship it was also the Vice World Champion of elders in K2 500 m. Fernando Pimenta won the silver medal in K2 1000 meters at the London 2012 Olympic Games, along with the athlete Emanuel Silva. In the Olympics of Tokyo, in 2020, he won the bronze medal in the K1 1000m category. In 2017, he is a champion of the world in K1 5000, in the Czech Republic ( the day before, he had already won the silver medal in K1 1000 m ). In 2018, it was bivouaced from the world, in Montemor-o-O Veil, in K1 1000 m and K1 5000 m. In 2020, during the Szeged World Cup, Fernando Pimenta won his 100th medal in international competitions. And last year, after the Olympics, K1 1000 m World Champion was slaughtered. Fernando Pimenta received the titles of Grand Officer of the Order of the Child D. Henrique, Commander of the Order of Merit and Grand Officer of the Order of Merit. To this exemplary journey Fernando Pimenta adds the conquest of four medals in one day, which, in addition to being unpublished in the modality, is also the reflection of the vitality of the modality in Portugal, patent in the facts achieved by the Portuguese canoists who, in total, brought from Poland seven medals, setting up the best Cup of the World always for Portuguese canoage. The Assembly of the Republic welcomes the athlete Fernando Pimenta for the conquest of the four gold medals in the Canoeing World Cup on May 29, 2022, in Poznan, Poland, and expresses the congratulations to the athlete for his exemplary and continuous journey, wishing that all future competitions continue to mirror their commitment and dedication to sport, as well as to national canoeing, which, by placing on the podium of the important competition the canoes João Ribeiro, Messias Baptista, Francisca Laia and Kevin Santos, shows once again the vitality and quality of the modality in our country. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u256	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We will move on to the general vote of Bill No 108 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Strengthens the safeguard of public interest, autonomy and independence of regulation and promotion of access to professional activities by amending Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January and Law No 53 / 2015 of 11 June.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u257	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u258	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u259	Mr President, the question I would like to ask is on the above-mentioned vote. The vote script refers to draft Law No 108 / XV / 1. the Socialist Party is still in public appreciation, the duration of which is due until the next 9 July. I would like to ask Mr President a question on the vote, because what legislation determines is that initiatives that deal with labour legislation and put into public assessment should not be discussed or voted on as long as that assessment is under way. However, this is a matter which has been discussed in the Assembly of the Republic and in the previous Parliament — not going to meet that which is our opinion — has come to an understanding and agreement among all, that the CFP has also accepted, that at least the original initiative which is scheduled at the time of its vote, has the public assessment concluded. I am not referring to the initiatives being taken, because in earlier times these initiatives — even ours — will also be included. Our question refers to the understanding that it was agreed that the original initiative, i.e. that which gives rise to the agenda, at the time of the vote, or at the time when it is to be voted on, will have the process of public assessment completed. I put this matter to the Bureau, taking into account the legislation that is in force and in anticipation of it now, because this is a problem that will be present next week, in particular with the Government's proposal, whose public assessment is only expected to end on 22 July 2022.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u260	Madam Member, my understanding is as follows: by reading Article 470. that of the Labour Code and the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I believe that it is absolutely clear and taxive that we cannot conclude our process, therefore, the overall final vote, of any legislative initiative subject to the hearing of workers' organisations without the deadline for this hearing being passed. I should like to remind you, Mr President, of previous legislative acts in which I was a Member in which this practice was customary, that voting can be done in general, since the process is not completed. The process cannot be completed without the representative organisations of workers wishing to be able to pronounce themselves. However, this question has not been raised at the Conference of Leaders and I do not know whether any parliamentary group wants to oppose this interpretation. Does the PS Parliamentary Group wish to oppose it? [[PS laughter.]] No, but you have the right, you have the right! The Members are registered. Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, Pedro Filipe Soares and Paula Santos. Then, in order to register, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor, to whom I would ask to be brief.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u261	Mr President, very briefly we agree with the reading that Mr President makes and adds an argument. In fact, what the case law of the Constitutional Court, which has already been called upon to pronounce itself specifically on how the hearings should take place, has concluded that what has to be guaranteed is that the outcome of these hearings is taken into account in the legislative process, and this occurs at the stage of the speciality. Therefore, provided that, before the closure of the specialty, and especially before the closure of the overall final vote, the process of hearings or negotiations or any other form of participation is completed, the constitutional norm is complied with. Of course, when the calendar permits it and when the discussion has not yet been scheduled or took place, this could be accommodating. In view of the fact that the debate has already taken place and that the guarantee of participation and influence of the decision taken by the House is not jeopardised, we agree with Mr President's reading and this interpretation which the Constitutional Court has made on the rules in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u262	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u263	Mr President, I am enjoying this speech by Mr Pedro Delgado Alves and Mr President's interpretation, which I will explain very briefly. The previous interpretation was quite well summarized by Mrs Paula Santos. It has been in force for several legislatures, at least until my memory goes, and it is that this right of hearing, of participation in the legislative process, would not be stuck in the discussion in general provided that the vote only took place after the end of this public hearing. So, what was normally done? The diploma was deposited with the committee without a vote and was expected until the end of this public hearing process. It seems to us here that it would make sense to follow the same practice. In fact, we see no reason for it to be changed, because the urgency period for public hearing was not even requested, something that could have happened, reducing the debate on this matter from 30 days to 20 days. However, this was not requested. If that had happened, this problem would not have arisen today. On the other hand, our interpretation of public participation which is constitutionally envisaged does not occur only if the legislative process is not completed, because participation is in a useful time, and the useful moment is when the specialty begins. However, this speciality begins when we take the vote in general. We therefore disagreed — and I would like that position to be clear — of the position taken by Mr President and which was defended by the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u264	Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u265	Mr President, just to say that we do not follow the interpretation that Mr President makes on this issue because the rule refers to the vote and the first vote that we will have in general, and does not refer to the overall final vote. We therefore believe that this initiative should only be voted on after the public assessment period.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u266	Mr. Paulo Mota Pinto, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u267	Mr President, just to say that we follow the interpretation that the Socialist Party has set out here, in the sense that the Constitution only speaks of the right of participation in the drafting and the Labour Code says that it can only be discussed and voted but does not say that voting is, if it is the vote in general, if it is any vote, if it is the vote in the specialty, if it is the overall final vote. Without prejudice to the fact that the best practice might be to conclude the public assessment before, in our view it is neither unconstitutional nor illegal to allow the conclusion of the period of assessment to take place after the vote in general, while the examination takes place in the specialty. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u268	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u269	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u270	Mr President, it is to say that, given the doubt that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is rising, I urged the committee to call for the discharge without a vote, and there is no objection to the initiation of the procedure in the specialty, not generating this doubt which is generating here. I therefore do not understand why the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group demands that there be a vote in general today. This oral request would make all the difference and we would solve the problem here.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u271	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u272	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u273	Mr President, it is just to say the following: agreeing with the vision that Mr President wants, both Mr. Mr Pedro Delgado Alves and Mr Paulo Mota Pinto mentioned, it is important to have the notion that there is a practice, not only in general as in the specialty, that these processes, when referring to labour legislation, precede the vote itself in general. I would like to draw Parliament's attention to the following: despite the case-law of the Constitutional Court, it is a little wrong for us to violate the documents which are in Parliament's own database. I shall quote what is next on the Parliament page, on the intranet, on the public consultation of hearings, which on page 16 says: « A good practice in this field is to avoid scheduling the vote in general on an initiative until the deadline for its mandatory public hearing has not yet elapsed. However, in the summary of a 2011 Leaders Conference, this conclusion was reached: "In contrast to the other legislative initiatives that require hearings, in relation to the core of labour legislation, public hearings have to precede both generality and specialty, in accordance with the Labour Code. Do not keep on seeking. ” Personally, I disagree, but this is parliamentary practice and, above all, that is what is contained in the documents we have in our parliamentary database, so I do not see that no ruling by the Constitutional Court can honestly preclude this practice. I therefore believe that, legally and regularly, the solution would be to go down to the committee without a vote, but it is obviously up to you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u274	Thank you very much, Mr. I have listened very carefully to all parliamentary groups. The arguments produced are not, however, sufficient to change my interpretation. I wonder if there is a parliamentary group that would like to resort to the decision to move forward with the vote in general. [[Pause.]] There are none, so let's vote in general. Obviously, the best practice, we all know, is to respect the deadlines, even if they are indicative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u275	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u276	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u277	Mr. President, I apologize for asking you again,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u278	You don't have to apologize for exercising your rights!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u279	... but his words indicate exactly that we must respect what is contained in the legislation and what has been the practice. Therefore, this general vote should take place only after the public assessment and the initiatives here can follow the way down to the committee without a vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u280	I understand, ladies and gentlemen, but the question is not that: there is a general vote that is planned. The proposed parliamentary group did not require the committee to be discharged without a vote, and I must therefore decide whether or not I am moving forward with the vote in general. I see no reason not to move forward, although, of course, we are far from the best practices, because best practices would scrupulously comply not only with the law, in a literal sense, but also with our own information to the public. But that is not the point, what I have to decide is whether or not I accept the vote in general. I accept it for the reasons I indicated. I see that there are parliamentary groups that very legitimately disagree, but no one understands that we are facing a case that obliges us to vote in plenary of appeal of my own decision and so I will move forward with the vote in general. Therefore, we will generally vote for Bill No 108 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Strengthens the safeguard of public interest, autonomy and independence of regulation and promotion of access to professional activities by amending Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January and Law No 53 / 2015 of 11 June. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, IL, PAN and 3 PSD (Alexandre Poço, Hugo Martins de Carvalho and Sofia Matos), votes against CH and abstentions from PSD, PCP, BE and L.]] The bill goes down to 10. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u281	Mr President, I would like to speak for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u282	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u283	Mr President, it is to inform me that I will deliver a vote statement specifically on the question of paid internships, in particular legal stages.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u284	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will now vote, in general, on Bill No. 9 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Establishs the mandatory remuneration of professional internships for access to the exercise of the profession by making the first amendment to Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January and the statutes of various professional public associations. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE, the PAN, the L and 3 PSD (Alexandre Poço, Hugo Martins de Carvalho and Sofia Matos), votes against the CH and the PCP abstention.]] The bill goes down to 10. the Commission. We proceed to the vote on an application submitted by the CH, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Labour, Social Security and Inclusion, without a vote, of Bill No 177 / XV / 1. a (CH) — eliminates unjustified restrictions on access to regulated professions and sets limits on the duration and organization of internships. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on a request submitted by the IL to the Committee on Labour, Social Security and Inclusion, without a 60-day vote of Bill No 178 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Regulatory reform of professional public associations, combating corporateism and democratizing access to professions ( first amendment to Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We continue with the general vote of Bill No 141 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Amend the Charter of Fundamental Rights in the Digital Age to ensure compliance with the right to freedom of expression. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CFP, BE and L were rejected, votes against the CH and abstentions against the IL and the NAP.]] We will vote, in general, on Bill No. 179 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Protects freedom of expression online. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE and the L and with the abstentions of the PS and the NAP.]] The general vote of Bill No 180 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PS ) — Simplifies the regime of protection against misinformation by ensuring its articulation with the European Plan of Action against Disinformation, making the first amendment to Law No 27 / 2021 of 17 May, which approves the Portuguese Charter of Human Rights in the Digital Age. [[The vote was taken by votes to PS, PSD and PAN, votes against IL and L, and abstentions to CH, PCP and BE.]] We continue with the general vote of Bill No. 181 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Regulation and implementation of model C family health units ( amendment to Decree-Law No 298/2007 of 22 August 2007 in its current wording ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the PS, the CH and the IL and the abstention from the NAP.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 127 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Plan for the regularization of late payments to suppliers of the National Health Service. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and BE were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH, the IL, the PAN and the L and the abstention from the CFP.]] We will vote for Resolution Project No 128 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Recovery of care activity. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the CH and the IL and abstentions against the PSD and the NAP.]] We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 129 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Family doctor for all users. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the L and votes against the PSD, the CH, the IL and the NAP.]] We will vote for Resolution Project No 130 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Universal electronic health register. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the BE were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH, the IL and the NAP and the L abstention.]] The general vote of Bill No 148 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (CH) — Access of citizens to consultations and additional means of diagnosis and therapy in good time and in accordance with their needs. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CFP and the BE were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH and the NAP and abstentions against the IL and the L.]] We turn to the general vote on Bill No 187 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Autonomy of the establishments and units of the National Health Service and extension of the authorisation for investment and unplanned expenditure. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CFP, BE, PAN and L and abstentions from the PSD, CH and L.]] We continue with the general vote of Bill No 191 / XV / 1. a (L) — Amendment to Decree-Law No. 28 / 2008, of 22 February, in its current wording, approving the regime of the creation, structuring and functioning of health centres groups of the National Health Service, and to Decree-Law No. 298 / 2007, of 22 August, which approves the legal regime of the organization and operation of the family health units. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CFP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the IL.]] We will move on to the general vote of Bill No. 192 / XV / 1. a (BE) — Strengthening primary health care with doctor and family team for all users and universalization of access to oral, mental and other health care. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE and L and abstentions against the CH and the NAP.]] We continue with the general vote of Bill No 193 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Measures to increase the number of professionals and promote the stability of teams in the National Health Service. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the IL were rejected in favour of the CFP, BE, NAP and L and abstentions from the PSD and CH.]] Let's vote now, in general, Bill No. 194 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Creates an exceptional scheme of late payments to the entities of the National Health Service, for the purpose of amending Law No 8 / 2012 of 21 February. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CFP, BE, PAN and L and abstentions from the PS, CH and IL.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 195 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recognition of the career as an auxiliary health technician. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]] We will continue, with the general vote on Bill No. 196 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Change the nursing career, restating justice and valuing essential workers to the National Health Service and the Country, changing several diplomas. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of CH, BE, PAN and L and abstentions from the PS, IL and the CFP.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 197 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Approves the exclusive dedication scheme for health professionals. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CH and the IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions against the PSD and the CFP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 66 / XV / 1. a (CH) — By immediate hiring of health professionals to the Algarve region, ensuring that obstetric and pediatric services do not end. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE and the PAN, and abstentions of the CFP and the L.]] We will now vote for draft resolution No 103 / XV / 1. a (CH) — For the protection of pregnant women in health care and at work. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH and the IL and abstentions of the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L.]] The vote on draft resolution No 133 / XV / 1. a (CH) — For the allocation of a doctor of general and family medicine to all citizens. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and BE were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH, the IL and the NAP and abstentions to the PCP and the L.]] We will now vote for draft resolution No 134 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Saving and valuing the National Health Service and valuing its professionals. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 138 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a Regressre Saúde programme, specifically aimed at health professionals. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CH, IL, BE, PAN and L and the abstention from the CFP.]] The draft resolution is down to 9. the Commission. The vote was followed by draft resolution No 139 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends that the Government encourage greater transparency in the private health sector. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CFP were rejected, votes against the CH, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions against the PSD and the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u285	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u286	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u287	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to announce that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a joint declaration of vote on these initiatives that we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u288	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We now vote on the Resolution Project No 14 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government carry out an annual update of the legal protection fee table in accordance with Article 36. the, paragraphs 2 and 3 of Law 34 / 2004 of 29 July. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CH, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u289	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u290	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u291	To announce a vote on this last vote, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u292	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 100 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Recommends that the Government carry out an annual update of the legal protection fee table. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE and the PAN, and abstentions of the CFP and the L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u293	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u294	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u295	To announce a vote on this vote, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u296	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We are now voting on draft resolution No 58 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Recommends to the Government the increase in shelters available as emergency responses to victims of domestic violence. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE and the PAN, and abstentions of the CFP and the L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u297	We will now vote on a request by the Committee on Education and Science to request a new assessment, in general, for more than 90 days, of the Bill No 90 / XV / 1. a (L) — I commend the duty of the institutions to initiate a competitive procedure for the functions performed by the doctors when the contract is concluded. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I now give the floor to Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha, to make an announcement.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u298	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is only to realize that Mrs Edite Estrela has accompanied our work by videoconferencing because she is in prophylactic isolation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-30.u299	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, having no opinions to vote, we are in a position to inform you that the next plenary session is on Wednesday, 6 July, having on the agenda Question No 1 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — On general policy, focused on solutions for the defence of the purchasing power and the living conditions of the people, blocking the increase in prices and ensuring the increase in wages and pensions. I wish everyone a good weekend and the PSD a good congress. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 37 minutes.]]
