ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, we already have quorum and all parliamentary groups are already represented, so that we can start the session. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries to the public. If there is no file, we will start the first item on the agenda, which consists of political declarations. The first political declaration is for the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival and Mr Frazão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, in the middle of 2022, the socialist majority has a government, a budget, a parliamentary bench and a President of the Assembly of the Republic. In other words, they have the absolute responsibility to recover the National Health Service (SNS), which is found in a sick body, the fruit of six years of governance, in a left and bamboo cord. The word given by VV. Ex. has been very unhonored. They say they're going to do, they're going to reinforce, they're going to equip. All statements of intent, words of pure political propaganda, typical, indeed, of socialist governments. Many intentions, many words, but practical results: zero! The pathology that affects the National Health Service has a pathognomonic signal. I repeat, so that Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias can distribute a photocopy of any medical dictionary: this pathognomonic symptom is the report on mortality in 2020, prepared by DGS ( Directorate-General for Health ) and known recently. in it, it was shown that there were six peaks of mortality and more than 14% of deaths than in the previous six years. The COVID-19 was only 4. the cause of death in 2020 and only explains two of the six mortality peaks verified. Now, with this state of health in Portugal, I want to address three topics. The first is proof that, for these left benches, ideological prejudice is more important than the health of Portuguese themselves. The proof of this is the report of the Court of Auditors of 14 May 2021. in this report, the Court of Auditors concluded that hospitals in public-private partnerships of Cascais, Braga, Vila Franca de Xira and Loures were fully integrated in the National Health Service and that generated for the state a saving of 203 million euros between 2014 and 2019. But the ideological blindness of the Socialist Party, together with that of the extreme left party, decided to end these partnerships, only because they were of private initiative. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The Court of Auditors even recommended the application of the performance indicators of these partnerships to all hospitals in the country. And the management government, what did you do? The government has completely ignored this recommendation and ended with this model in Braga, Vila Franca de Xira and Loure, where the degrading conditions of access to health are now newspaper news every week. For example, at Braga Hospital, half of the emergency team heads and some of the obstetricians resigned,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u3	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u4	... there is still physical assault on health professionals and there are patients who wait 12 hours for an emergency. At the Loures hospital there are no anesthetists and increased the waiting time for consultations and examinations in oncology. At Vila Franca de Xira Hospital there was an authentic band of orthopedics and nurses, and today, while we are talking, the workers in that hospital perform a 24-hour strike. However, this Court of Auditors report went further and pointed out that without these health management models, the National Health Service would not be able to maintain financially sustainable, particularly as regards waste, which is more than EUR 1000 million per year. Whoever suffers, sirs. Members, Members of Parliament and Mr President, are the sick. Unlike you, nothing moves us against the public or against the private. What we want is a health system that responds to the needs of Portuguese people. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Secondly, we need to talk about health infrastructure and encourage this majority to do more and better. The promised hospitals of Eastern Lisbon, Seixal, Sintra, central Alentejo and central Algarve will have to leave the role. They also promised the construction and modernization of 100 health centres, up to 2026. The Portuguese will be here to evaluate and will have a very careful supervisor in arriving, because the reform of primary health care has already taken more than 15 years and continues to comply. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Of the three points I bring, the latter is serious, emerging and if it entered an emergency of any hospital it would have an incarnate bracelet. This is about the management of human assets in health. There are not enough health professionals in the public sector in Portugal. The full dedication scheme provided for in the SNS Statute is purely and simply not functioning. However, the government does not know what it can count on, who can attract or which the universe of professionals is captivating. In fact, since the publication of the law in 2015, the National Inventory of Health Professionals is still about to be done. It would be a tool for managing human resources in health, public and private, to create a true human resources strategy for health in Portugal. Well, so many years have passed since 2015 and nothing has been done. You can't plan a resource that you don't know. For example, how to plan, if, in the next two years, we will have 1800 family doctors reformed and today, 1 million and 300,000 Portuguese are already without a family doctor! Is that what you're talking about? I shall conclude, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The arrival presented 32 proposals in the area of health for this State budget, some of them specific for palliative and continuing care. Valid proposals which have been rejected by this House! Nothing the Portuguese did not expect from a bench that wants to promote death by euthanasia rather than promoting and caring for life. They assume that it's cheaper to let die than to take care of. You said 'austerity kills', but euthanasia is nothing more than the most austere way to die. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Is it with her that they want to solve health problems? The one who has no access to relief, who asks for death, because this is not necessary to invest in palliative care or continuous care! In the corridors of hospitals the monkeys will decrease and the ambulances will no longer stand in line nor wait for the return of their own monkeys, where the patients wait for hours in line.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u5	It's all worth it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u6	He wants a health that is always for life, for care, for relief. Anyway, arriving is for the health and life of the Portuguese. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u7	For a political declaration on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mrs Joana Cordeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Yesterday, on 1 June, the World Day of the Child was celebrated. This day was officially established in 1950 with the aim of raising awareness of children's rights. on that day, it was recognized that all children, regardless of their country, social origin, gender, ethnicity or religion, have the right to love, to grow in an environment of peace and to improve their living conditions, with a view to their future development. However, in 1959, the United Nations passed the Universal Declaration of the Rights of the Child, which tells us that the child: will enjoy special protection and will benefit from opportunities to develop - physically, intellectually, morally, spiritually and socially in a healthy and normal way, in conditions of freedom and dignity; has the right to grow and develop with good health; has the right to adequate food, housing, recreation and medical care; has the right to education that promotes its culture and allows it, on equal terms of opportunity, to develop its mental skills, its sense of responsibility and to become a useful member of society; must have full opportunity to play and to devote to recreational activities; must, in all circumstances, be the first to benefit from protection and relief. We know that, throughout the world, so many of the principles of this Declaration are still to be fulfilled, which is not, at all, acceptable, but much less expectable that some of these non-compliances occur in the so-called developed countries. We focus on reality in Portugal. In 2019, 1, 6 million people lived with incomes below the poverty threshold and the younger were the age group that presented the highest risk rate of poverty, even after all social transfers. With the pandemic and the current situation of war and inflation, the scenario did not improve. in this context, with regard to education — particularly important for children — the report of the study requested by this Assembly of the Republic to the National Council of Education reads: "Pre-existing inequalities have posed added challenges to children and young people from more disadvantaged family contexts. The different socio-economic conditions and access to digital equipment, the worsening of socio-emotional and well-being conditions, among other factors, seem to point to an increase in educational inequalities during distance teaching. Do not keep on seeking. ” Recently, a study published by IAVE (Instituto de Evaluación Educação educativa ) showed worrying results on the existence of significant difficulties in learning. Having made this diagnosis, there is no doubt in how thousands of children are not benefiting from the same means and opportunities, which guarantee all their physical, intellectual and social development under the same conditions of freedom and dignity, as indicated in the Universal Declaration of the Rights of the Child. There is no doubt in how the economic growth we had in recent decades in Portugal did not allow thousands of parents to provide their children with the comfort and opportunities they desired. There is no doubt in how anemic economic growth does not support a social state that allows all children to access, in the same circumstances, health, education or extracurricular activities. In addition, there is no doubt as the inequalities in access to education, which were already screaming before the pandemic and which were enhanced in the last two years, are the critical factor that has tied thousands of children to a cycle of poverty for another generation. There is no doubt in how delays in the recovery of learning, which we have insisted on, represent all less the effort for children to be the first to benefit from special protection. And there can be no doubt about the negative impacts on children's development as a result of closing the children's parks, limiting sports practices or forcing themselves to use masks in schools, measures that were not scientifically recommended and to which liberals opposed themselves in due course. When, here, we have respected the principles of the Universal Declaration of the Rights of the Child! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u10	In the face of all this, we must assume that we are failing our children. In the Liberal Initiative, we say, without any problem, that, yes, your economic policies, statists and directors did not generate any more wealth or opportunities. Your health model does not respond in time to needs and your education model continues to condemn thousands of children to social stagnation because, no, the social elevator is not working. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u11	What they can never say is that failure in the face of thousands of children is the result of economic growth based on private initiative, because this has never happened. They can never say that we failed our children because their parents were able to choose the school they thought was the best, because they could never do it. And they will never be able to say that the recovery of learning has been due to a concrete, calendarized plan and with concrete objectives, as the Liberal Initiative has always defended, because up to now this has not been implemented. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: No one in this Assembly of the Republic can claim that he loves and defends more the interests of children than anyone else here. However, it is a fact that the policies pursued so far have not been equally successful in the development and well-being of all children. These policies, supported by many of the present, will be condemned and rejected by many children today, adults tomorrow, when they feel that they do not have the dues and fair opportunities. We can all do more and better: if the raiser of social mobility comes back to work, but for that, we must succeed in generating the wealth that we do not generate today; if the state leaves the path of anyone or any company that wants to invest in Portugal, generating jobs and economic growth; if we can generate a real market economy and not an economy of interests between some groups of society and the state. We can give families hope if they know that they can thrive through their work, with the realization of their dreams, but especially if we give their children a perspective for the future, which will pass through more opportunities and greater freedom of choice. We're still going in time, we don't let any kids stay behind. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u12	The Bureau recorded three entries for clarifications, in particular by Mrs Carla Madureira, Mr Bruno Aragão and Mrs Joana Mortágua. In order to formulate the first request for clarification, Mrs Carla Madureira of the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, when we celebrate World Children's Day, we are celebrating the rights of children, of all children: to play, to health, to education and to housing. The first years of life of all children have a profound effect on their future, their brain development, their health, their happiness, their ability to learn, their well-being and even their professional qualification. It is the government's duty to ensure basic rights for all children, but we have seen a perfect defeat of this socialist majority. The government is failing children and their families. In the good socialist way, the announcements are bountiful, the promises are many, but the implementation of the measures fails across the line. [[Protests by PS MP Maria Antonia de Almeida Santos.]] There are children at risk of having their meals compromised in schools, because the government is paying the authorities about half of the cost per meal that companies are charging for next school year. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u14	The value has not been revised and the authorities face the lack of candidate companies in public tenders. There will be no food in the school canteens. At the end of the school year, there are about 7000 students without a teacher, at least one discipline. The Government is denying thousands of students the right to equal access to education. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]] The government promised free daycare for all children, but it didn't. It is not just a matter of failing to fulfil an election promise, because by lightening its responsibilities, the government is compromising the development of thousands of children, especially the most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u15	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u16	I will finish, Mr. President. It is exactly the Liberal Initiative that we want to ask which model they advocate for our children. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u17	To request clarification, Mr Bruno Aragão of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Joana Cordeiro, you are absolutely right: there is no doubt. There is no doubt about the way we have done, there is no doubt about what public school is for children, there is no doubt about which is the most qualified generation ever, there is no doubt about which school system has generated the most qualified generation ever, I pass the redundancy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u19	And unemployed!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u20	More: there is no doubt about the indicators of infant mortality, there is no doubt about the prenatal care we have,... [[Protests by CH Deputies Pedro dos Santos Frazão and Rita Matias.]] ... there is no doubt about the whole social action support system, either for children or then in the transition to higher education. You are absolutely right, Mrs Deputy, there is no doubt.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u21	He has no children, of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u22	But there is also an issue on which we have no doubt, which is the way we must continue to do. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u23	That is, in fact, the debate we can have. If they want to look back, we can try to buy — and use the same expression — the "mantra do not govern" of the Socialist Party and its policies, but, curiously, then - we are interested in saying that, after all, we have the most qualified generation ever.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u24	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u25	The question that we should ask and repeat is this: what are the policies that have prepared the most qualified generation ever? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u26	And unemployed!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u27	It was always the public policies of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u28	Don't say shit! [[It's the truth!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u29	It was always public policies that sought to ensure equality of opportunity for all children from many years to this part. And this final part changes everything! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]] Therefore, Mrs Joana Cordeiro, regardless of the overallity she has sought to give to her intervention, the question is very simple: what the Liberal Initiative has to tell us is what it would change, in particular, and what effective results awaits these changes, because the past results are clear and evident. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u30	To ask for clarifications, you have the floor of Mrs. Joana Mortágua from the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let me try to anticipate the answer of the Liberal Initiative to the question on which proposals they have to carry out the rights of children. The honourable Member said that what the Liberal Initiative wants is for the State to leave the front, but I would like to exercise on what would happen, if the State were to leave the front, relative to the right of children to education, to the right to health, to child poverty. I should like to know if you agree with me that, if the state were to leave the front, we would have a reality of poverty and inequality in access to education and health much more like the levels that exist in the United States than those that exist in Europe. [[Protests by Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]] I would like to know whether the honourable Member thinks that it is in the liberal model of access to education—where anyone can pay goes to the good schools, while the poor, who are marked by racism and class differences and prejudices regarding their families, go to the schools of the poor — which realizes the right to education. We will conclude that the Liberal Initiative does not want the State to leave the path to the right of children to education. Don't! The Liberal Initiative believes that the State pays for the education of children, only does it not want to pay for public school, or, indeed, that the State pays for private schools.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u32	It's cheaper!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u33	So we will begin to see if what the Liberal Initiative wants to defend is the right of children to education—to a universalist education, in the liberal and republican principle—...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u34	To the best education!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u35	... or the business of education, in the neoliberal perspective, which makes every school owner can decide, when each family arrives with the check-in in hand, which is the student they want for their establishment. We will see if this will not have the same result of class inequality, racial inequality, gender inequality, that is, if it will not have the same result of social reproduction of inequalities. [[CH and IL protests.]] What we want, yes, is that the State is putting itself on the path of social reproduction of inequalities. It is not enough to deliver a computer to each student so that suddenly there is equal opportunity, because there are students whose mothers are fifth year old and their mothers have taught. There are students whose parents are at home because they work 8 hours a day, but there are students whose parents work from 5 hours in the morning until midnight. Therefore, equality of opportunity is not what the Liberal Initiative thinks. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u36	In reply, Mrs. Joana Cordeiro has the floor, which has three minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I brought this issue of opportunities for our children to debate because it should concern us all and the first step in solving many of the problems is to realize that they exist. When we hear Mr. Bruno Aragão from the PS, it seems that everything is okay. As someone has already said, we live in a pink world of the Socialist Party in which it seems to be all right, but the truth is that policies are not working. From the moment that not all children have the same opportunities, policies do not work. Could we have made a way? Sure! It would be bad if some indicators had not improved, but children do not have all the same opportunities. Mr. Bruno Aragão said we have the most prepared generation ever, but we also have the most emigrant generation ever. If people were well, they wouldn't emigrate! [[Applause from the IL.]] [[PS protests.]] So that's what I have to answer. Mrs. Joana Mortágua, when I said that the state has to leave the front, I meant that it has to leave the front of the investment. We cannot complicate all bureaucracy, because if we continue to complicate the lives of businesses and people who want to prosper, there will, of course, not be economic growth that resists. I would also like to comment on the following: Mrs.Jona Mortágua knows, as well as I do, the neighborhood Second Torrão, so I would like to see, in her words, whether the children who live there, in those conditions, have the same opportunities as other children who do not live in that neighborhood. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u38	So you're done with the state? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u39	Of course they don't have and of course the state isn't solving the problem of those children, because during the pandemic, while they were at home... [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u40	There's a need for more state!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u41	Don't! Until we have an economic growth that allows us to have a state that solves the problems...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u42	It takes more state to solve the problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, dialogue is not possible. The clarifications have been requested, the honourable Member is now responding and we all have to hear. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u44	What I wanted to mention is that we cannot continue to do the same thing as up here and hope that suddenly everything will be resolved, because that will not happen. Regarding the comments on the model we defend, just look at countries like the Netherlands,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u45	Say more, more!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u46	You want me to say all the liberal countries? [[BE's protests.]] So let us do the opposite: let us know in which countries the policies you defend have resulted.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u47	Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u48	Say one!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u49	These policies are still not working. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u50	Thank you very much, Madam Member, even for respecting the time limit. For a political statement on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor. I call on all the Members and all the Members. Members who create conditions so that we can hear each other. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Universal Declaration of the Rights of the Child was proclaimed by the United Nations ( UN ) on 20 September 1959, but only in 1989, with the adoption by the UN of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, ratified by Portugal the following year, is that the child has become considered a full citizen. Consecrates our Constitution of the Republic in Article 69. the, which is the responsibility of the State and society to protect children with a view to their integral development, in particular against all forms of abandonment, discrimination and oppression. All children must be guaranteed rights: protection and special care; love and affection; respect for their own identity; difference and social dignity; to be desired; physical integrity and security; adequate food, clothing, housing, health, education, culture, sport; play in a free and creative way; free times and participate in life in society; grow in a harmonious and balanced way; be accompanied by their parents and mothers in all stages of growth and development. This, among many other rights, is reflected in national and international diplomas, which, so often and so often, do not emerge from the role. In our country, the daily life of thousands of children continues to be marked by various forms of denial of rights, violence and discrimination. Not because it is fatal, but because successive governments have refused to take measures that fully effect children's rights, as well as different governments have deepened a path of desponsibility of the State in guaranteeing children's rights and in exacerbating the living conditions of workers and the people. A limitation and denial of the rights of children that is inseparable from the limitation, denial and atrocity of the rights of parents, especially of working parents and mothers. Yes, because we can't talk about the rights of children without talking about the rights of parents.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u52	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Nearly a quarter of children and young people up to 18 years of age live at risk of poverty and social exclusion and, for a child, poverty is more deeply affected than material deprivation. It translates into difficulties in access to health, education, quality housing, a healthy diet, in time with parents and family, reproduces the lack of hope and compromises the development of each child and that of the country itself. These are numbers that have everything to increase, at a time with an inflationary escalation and a brutal increase in the cost of living, which already translates into more difficulties of families in accessing essential goods and services. It is a serious problem, that the Government of the absolute majority PS does not want to solve or face. The poverty of children is the poverty of their families and their resolution requires structural measures, not charity or socialism. What is required is the general value of wages, the increase of the minimum wage for the €850 in the short term, but also the end of all instruments which, in the public and in the private, have served not to increase workers' wages, including the expiry of collective bargaining and deeply devalued careers and ponds. Children and parents need time to live together. Parents need decent hours and children of time to play, to be with family, friends, to socialize. To this end, it is necessary to reduce working hours to 35 hours, combat the abuse of night work and shift work, eliminate hour banks and all the mechanisms that disrupt working hours, because this deregulation of working hours and this dehumanization separates parents and mothers from their children. It's not like you're running 24 hours a day or seven days a week—like anyone wants you to do it! — that children and parents need. They need, indeed, the extension of the free of charge of day care centres, a public network of day care centres that ensure the universality of this right and other social equipment that promote its development. Children need stability conditions in their lives and the work precariousness of more than 1 million workers in our country has a direct translation into their children's lives. In addition to delaying the choice of many to have children, for those who have instability in their bond there is uncertainty as to the living conditions that can assure their children, the doubt about the future and what they will be able to provide. The fight against unemployment, the eradication of precariousness, a path of full employment and employment with rights is essential for working parents and mothers to have the necessary conditions to have their children they wish, in conditions of dignity. Children need: a valued public school, close proximity, which is a motivation space for learning and growth; they need a National Health Service that ensures medical and family nurse care for all, with close responses, pediatricians, dentists, nutritionists and psychologists in primary health care; social security has all the conditions to assume their social protection functions, ensuring the universality of family allowance and all the necessary protection in situations of social vulnerability; a conditional housing and that does not suck the whole wages of the parents to access it; that culture and sports are not treated as ornaments or only for some, being, yes, accessible to all, ensuring their integral development. Children need more maternity and paternity rights, that those who exist are not hit and that have children no longer to be seen — as it is by many employers — as an obstacle to the availability of workers. Yesterday the World Day of the Child was marked with this intervention, the CFP reaffirms its commitment to deepening the rights of children and their full realization, so that children will grow and develop in harmony, so that they will be guaranteed the right to be children and to be happy and that parents may be present and accompany all those moments. They are not privileges, they are the rights of children and parents and therefore inseparable. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u54	The Bureau shall record three entries for clarification. I would like to ask the honourable Member if she would reply together.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u55	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u56	To ask for clarification, then you have the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN, who has two minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome all those present. I cannot but mention the day yesterday, which we pointed out, the Day of the Child, and, in that reference, strengthen our commitment to the protection of the rights of children, in particular the right to children, which is fundamental and must be respected and renewed at every moment, especially in our legislative action. With regard to the issue brought to us by the CFP, which also dealt with the previous intervention, we cannot help but distance ourselves from the so-called liberal eldorado, which seems to move away from the state as a fundamental element of the fight against poverty, particularly child poverty, and in access to education. He is, in fact, fundamental. Where would the children be and the fight against poverty if, during the pandemic, the state had been furnished? But on the issue that the CFP brings to us, we would like to make it clear that the NAP argues that it is essential to extend the supply of public day care. Given that this network covers only about 48 % of the offer, on the one hand, and the waiting lists we still have in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto, on the other hand, which means that 4 out of every 10 children do not have access to the public daycare system, the NAP argues that, while public daycare is not kept free, the State should be guaranteed the possibility of protocoling access to that same public support to parents who, by meeting all requirements, have to put their children on a private daycare centre. We ask whether the CFP accompanies us on this issue. We know that they have some ideological prejudice about this matter, but given that we are talking about families that meet all the requirements so that they can effectively be supported—we are not talking about supporting the private sector, but rather families! — whether or not they are available to meet this NAP proposal. Nor can we stop bringing up another issue that has not yet been addressed, but that is related to sexual crimes against minors. We spoke on Child Day and the sexual self-determination of children is fundamental. The NAP has launched an initiative to extend the time limits for the prescription of sexual crimes and, as such, I ask the CFP if it is available to monitor and protect children, also in this dimension.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u58	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs. Cristina Mendes da Silva of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u59	Mr President, I welcome the honourable Members and the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Diana Ferreira, the Socialist Party has made a path in protecting the best interests of children. As proof of this, yesterday a vote of greeting to the World Day of the Child, presented by the Socialist Party, marked all the way and all the process that has been done since Portugal signed and ratified the Convention on the Rights of the Children on 21 September 1990. However, we can distinguish two types of children in our country: those who are completely protected in the family environment, with response from public school and everything that is public services, and then some children who are really at risk. For those at risk, we have protective committees for children and young people, in operation in all municipalities, as well as a set of social support and authorities, which means that, in each municipality, the social network can have measures that act on all resources, specifically in some territories with some specificities, so that there is control of the risk of poverty in relation to the situation of children. However, we had at the budget sessions a vote for the guarantee of childhood, and I must remind you, Mrs Deputies, that the Communist Party voted against. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u60	What? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u61	He voted against! More: the guarantee of childhood was not invented by the Socialist Party. The guarantee of childhood was indeed a recommendation from the European Commission, signed by all 27 Member States, and we are planning to reduce child poverty. As you know, reducing poverty, increasing training and increasing employment are three of the major strategies we signed at the Porto Summit. According to us, the fight against child poverty will be the highest priority, since we know that children are accompanied...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u62	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u63	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I was saying, support for the family in reconciling professional life with family life will be the backup that will make today's children not poor people in the future and make the best contribution to our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u64	Mr Nuno Carvalho, from the PSD, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u65	First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr President, Mr President. Members and the PCP, thanking you for the subject you brought. The subject is quite relevant, even because, when we think in our country in a vision of the future, it is clear that the issues related to children, their rights and their own protection, expressed through the family environment, are fundamental. They are fundamental in a country that has to defend the growth of birth and in which, a little while ago, the words of the Prime Minister — and the honourable Member is reminded, until they have been addressed to you and your parliamentary group — the words of the Prime Minister have been promised free daycare. Clearly, there was an authentic flop and the Socialist Party Member did not have the courage to mention when she spoke about what the Socialist Party Government had been trying to do on such an important issue as that of children's rights. I would like to ask you whether, in fact, you believe that what is being poured out in this State budget reflects, at least, the promise of the general free of charge of day care centres. He'll definitely think he's not. A number of proposals were therefore put forward by the PSD Parliamentary Group, with an almost unanimous vote on the opposition, only with the abstention of the Liberal Initiative, and even with proposals from other parliamentary groups. Addressing Mrs Diana Ferreira, I find it essential to refer to a particular situation, which is that of children coming from Ukraine as refugees. About a third of Ukraine's refugees are minors and this is a situation that, of course, must concern you very much, because it is the result of an invasion. I ask you if you agree that it is indeed a consequence of an invasion of Ukraine by Russia. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to note that we have listened very carefully to the questions of the Socialist Party to the CFP Parliamentary Group, we have listened very carefully to the promises of the PS Parliamentary Group and the Government on the issue of children and what we realize is that the freeness of day care is a real flop. As far as this is concerned, perhaps you may also say whether or not you agree. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u66	To answer, in 3 minutes, you have the floor of Mrs Diana Ferreira of the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u67	Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, the PAN, Mrs Cristina Mendes da Silva, the PS, and Mr Nuno Carvalho, of the PSD, for the questions they raised to the CFP on my political statement. I begin with the last questions put by Mr Nuno Carvalho. On the issue of free daycare, it is increasingly evident that, if it were not the insistence and persistence of the PCP in ensuring the freeness of daycare, it would never have been achieved. It is something we have defended for a long time and insist that it should have practical effectiveness. But I also remember that, when the law which guarantees the freeness of day care was passed, the PSD could have resolved the injustice that many children today feel when they were denied the same freeness if it had, in its entirety, approved the PCP proposal that guarantees the freeness of day care for all children, regardless of the income scale. At the time, the PS did not have an absolute majority and the PSD abstention denied thousands of children the right to day care. That's why the ladies are here. PSD members also have responsibility for the injustice that today many children and families live in access to daycare...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u68	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u69	... and in many problems that will feel, even more aggravated, at the beginning of the next school year. It is obvious that the Socialist Party does not want to solve this issue, but it would not even be a problem if, in the last legislature, the PSD had approved, in the specialty, the proposal of the CFP, ensuring the free care of all children, as we have always defended, and not in groups or benefits, as is the case at this time. On the question of refugee children, Mr President, let me tell you that all refugee children, women and families in our country are looking for a response to situations that have forced them to escape from their countries, of course, to have all their rights safeguarded. Ukrainian children—such as many other children coming to our country, coming from many parts of the world, fleeing from war, from situations of hunger, from situations of poverty— must also have proper reception in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u70	And condemn the war? Don't you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u71	We have always had the same position in relation to all children, all women, all families, regardless of nationality, ethnicity or options they may have. Mrs. Cristina Mendes da Silva, of the Socialist Party, agreed that she would evaluate the votes expressed in the Budget before making a few statements such as those she did. It is that the CFP voted favourably, in the field of specialty, the proposal on child guarantee. In fact, this proposal was adopted unanimously! Those who voted against practically all the proposals of the CFP were the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. More, the gentlemen. Members deny that the compensation proposed by the PS for family allowance could go further than the values entered in the State budget. The gentlemen. Members deny children a free daycare and a public daycare network.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u72	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u73	I will finish, Mr. President. The gentlemen. Members reject the wage exploitation that thousands of workers need in our country so that child poverty can be effectively eradicated.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u74	And the six PS Budgets you approved?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u75	Therefore, whoever denied the rights to children and families was the PS, with its absolute majority. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u76	It was the PS, the PCP and the Left Block!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u77	For a political declaration on behalf of the Left Block, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is a housing crisis in Portugal. In the main urban centers, buying home is for millionaires and the income is worth more than the salary. Housing today is not for young people, but it is also not for old people, it is not for poor people, but it is also not for remedy and it is for middle classes. They transformed housing into a privilege, rendered the real estate to speculation and wildness of the liberalized market. They overcrowded the cities, expelled the small trade, and none of this was done by chance. There is a housing crisis in Portugal and she is responsible. We recall 2011, when the IMF ( International Monetary Fund ) landed on the Portela, and the years in which we live under that austerity programme that today both PS and PSD strive to reject, in almost childhood discussions of « the blame is yours », « no, it is yours » and « who says it is who it is ». Anyway, the ladies. Members know how these discussions take place in Parliament. Austerity lowered prices and opened the door to the big business of real estate investment funds. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] The income law expelled people, while a winning campaign was set up to attract foreign buyers. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The golden visa scheme was created, the measure of the tax benefits to non-residents — created by José Socrates — was promoted, the local housing was welcomed, the public estate was sold, the large hotels cities were flooded, the rules were created more favourable for investment funds. The real estate speculation that precipitated the crisis was not a fatality, it was a political project on the right that the Socialist Party welcomed, despite all the promises. Despite evidence of corruption, PS government ministers continued to promote visasgold for this outside world, from Russia to China, millionaire houses in exchange for residence permits and the guarantee of anonymity, a must-see offer, especially for those seeking to wash the wallet and the image. Despite international embarrassment, the non-normal resident regime continued for years to exempt the richest pensioners from tax in other countries. New real estate funds have been created and more hotels and local accommodations have been licensed in historic centers. Mrs. Members, who do not confuse the debate: if, between 2014 and 2016, the number of local accommodations in Lisbon tripled up to exceed the capacity for more than 100 000 people in a city where 500 000 people live, and if in some of the parish in Lisbon there is more local housing than houses to live, this is not due to the small owners who sought to survive the troika. It was the large investment funds and the large international companies that benefited millions from the transformation of housing into business. And what was the result? Oh, my God! Let's look again at Lisbon. The city that dedicates more houses to tourism than Barcelona today is 3. the most expensive thing in the world. You heard me, ladies. Members, Lisbon is 3. the most expensive city in the world and this is due to the criminal price of housing in a country of shameful wages.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u79	It's not just pay that's embarrassing!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u80	But not only in the capital lives the housing crisis, as the inhabitants of Porto, Évora, Coimbra or Algarve well know. It is a crisis that was partly built on an illegality and who says it is the Supreme Court of Justice, which concluded the obvious: in fractions destined for housing should not be allowed to carry out local housing. [[Congratulations from BE.]] I well know that this statement is a shock to all who think that the privilege of unlimited profit is a right that overlaps all others, including the right to have a decent home and bearable prices. We know that this is what the most radical neoliberals think, who live well with the gentrified, elite cities, destined to a hand full of privileged, but we do not understand that this is the choice of the Socialist Party, which fills their mouths to speak of a revolution in the housing. So far, the reformist momentum of the PS, which has been in the last few years, has resulted in 1,000 houses built. It's a drop of water in the ocean of the problem. What we want to know is whether the PS is going to watch the permanent loss of tens of thousands of houses in silence, as the great owners definitely change the nature of the buildings, from housing to commerce, for the sole purpose of fleeing the law and the judgment of the Supreme Court. We have heard the words of Minister Pedro Nuno Santos, saying that he understands the problem, but does not compromise. Anyway, you're going to study! We know that whenever you want, the government does and, when you don't want, the government studies. Still, the Left Block brings an elementary proposal: a moratorium that prevents, in areas of greater population density — I repeat, in areas of greater population density! — Houses shall not be permanently lost for commercial purposes. [[Congratulations from BE.]] We have a housing crisis and all houses are necessary. The right and privilege of unlimited business cannot exceed the right to a decent housing, a luxury to which most people living in large cities today cannot access. We live in a crisis that needs urgent action. We know how neoliberals will vote. The question is this: with whom will the Members of the Socialist Party stand? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u81	Thank you very much, Mrs Deputies, for having contained yourself in the time it was assigned to you. The Bureau noted the inclusion of four Mrs in order to request clarification. Ladies and gentlemen. How do you intend to respond, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u82	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u83	To make the first request for clarification, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto of the Liberal Initiative has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, the local housing has democratized access to the revenues of the tourist accommodation and about 90% of the local housing owners are small owners. The local accommodation allowed anyone with an apartment to benefit from the tourism boom. The local accommodation fed this boom of tourism, because it brought an additional capacity of accommodation, without which this boom would not be possible, and fed all the jobs that have been created in the sector in recent years. Local accommodation rehabilitated the city center, where a few years ago no one wanted to live. Local accommodation was an essential exit for many people who lost their jobs during the crisis and found in the management of local housing an alternative of personal and financial valuation. The local housing allowed many people, for the first time in their lives, to become owners, because they could make their property profitable. The hate of the Left Block to local accommodation until it is understood in this general context that you have hatred for economics and profit, but it is hard for me to understand that you want to return the tourism sector to the large hotel chains. It is difficult for me to understand that they are fighting against the democratization of tourism revenue. It is difficult to understand that they have supported the injection of billions of euros into an airline providing a service that would be easily replaceable, but they agree to destroy housing capacity that would take decades to rebuild. It is difficult for me to understand that they want to destroy a housing capacity that easily turns into housing, in cases of tourism crisis, which does not happen to hotels.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u85	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u86	I will finish, Mr. President. It is difficult for me to understand that they want to take the floor and the meaning of life to people who have seen in the local accommodation a professional alternative. It's hard for me to understand, or maybe it doesn't cost, because, for the Left Block, people are smaller victims than their hate to profit. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u87	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Marcia Passos, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, first of all, we thank the subject that brought about the debate, but we regret that it is based on the prejudices that the Left Block is already getting us used to, the prejudices against the owners. In Portugal, the problems of housing, renting, local housing and tourism are not solved with restrictions on property rights and this insistence of the Left Block is even too worrying if it is not subject to any weighting. But it is also worrying that we distort reality and even the very meaning of the Supreme Court's judgment, forgetting that in Portugal we have a separation of powers which, first and foremost, causes a judgment of the Supreme Court to be respected which has effects only and only in a given case. Therefore, any legislative measure to circumvent the meaning of that judgment and of what the judges have decided will be a precipitate. This is the first repair we make. On the other hand, we are naturally concerned about all the investment that many owners have made in their fractions, with the much investment that has been made in tourism in Portugal, such concerns that the Left Block does not follow. So, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, I ask you: is the Left Block available to rethink the regime of local housing in a serious way, based even on law compared to what is done in other legal systems that can be good examples, ending once and for all with this prejudice against the owners? What affects the judgment of the Supreme Court is something that concerns only horizontal property. Changing the fate of a fraction, its use, in a PH (horizontal property) is not so easy and therefore it seems to me that what the honourable Member said reveals some ignorance of the law that allows to change the end of the fractions. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u89	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Maria Begonha of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Mariana Mortágua asked who the Socialist Party's Members would stand up and I remind her that it was the Left Block that rose right in the last two Budgets, the Budgets with the highest public investment in housing. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Madam Member, how does the Socialist Party stand? What do we defend? There is consistency here: as you know, there was no Socialist Party until October 2021 and now another Socialist Party. Together we have created a new legislation for housing and a new generation of policies, just so that there is a distinction of public policy. The honourable Member, for this small debate, has certainly been able to see the difference. Such a revolution that Mrs Deputies is attempting to diminish and devalue is indeed a revolution because it is the biggest public policy, the largest national public strategy that has ever been inhabited in this country, precisely Mrs Deputies, to respond to the housing shortages she speaks of and very well. Is there a crisis in housing? She's obvious, Mrs. Member, we never denied her. We know that decades of de-investment, liberalization, de-regulation and privatization—which is not confused with the politics of the Socialist Party— resulted in a housing crisis, also for the middle classes. And that is why this public policy strategy of making housing a pillar of the social state—for which, until recently, the Left Block and the left partners also seemed to want to contribute—makes the difference as to what existed before. Today we have a policy that not only responds to middle classes but also to young people. However, Mrs Deputy, this is indeed a delay, because we know that it is a strategy that has the difficulties that Mrs Deputy speaks of and that we have never denied. What we do not do is give up this strategy, because there is no silver bullet and because the issues of local housing containment models are necessarily relevant. We do not steal from the debate, but there is no silver bullet to solve the problem of the speculative market and the lack of access to housing. Mrs Deputy and the Left Block are well aware of the work that has been done by the Socialist Party to reverse the paradigm that existed: instead of alienation from public heritage, rehabilitation of public heritage, of all, for affordable lease and so that it may be available to respond to the shortcomings we have.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u91	Mrs. Deputy has to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u92	The final question I put to Mrs. Member of the Left Block is the following: really, when she says that the Liberal Initiative would not make it worse, is it lack of memory or lack of imagination? Do you think the Liberals would do no worse than the Socialist Party? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u93	I would like to draw the attention of the honourable Members and the Members. Members for the fact that, having voted today, there will be a quorum check. To manage time so that parliamentary afternoon is useful to all, I ask for maximum restraint in regiment times. For a request for clarification, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u94	Mr President, I welcome Mrs Mariana Mortágua on the subject of debate. In fact, access to housing in our country is a problem that has worsened in recent years, as a result of the wrong political options of successive governments that have treated housing in a commodity logic, not a rule of law, and that have left the answer to this problem in that market. However, this market does not guarantee, it does not answer, it is not a solution to solve housing problems in our country. The problems affecting housing in our country are greatly aggravated by the absolutely speculative prices, as a result of the intervention of the real estate sector and real estate funds. Of course, the issues related to golden visas, the tax regime for non-standard residents and the accelerated growth of local housing have had a profound negative impact, not only on the reduction in the number of housing available to respond to the needs of our population, but also on the increase in price for values that are incompatible, taking into account the low incomes that are taken from our country. The honourable Member brings here a very concrete question about the impact of local housing on urban areas and it is indeed very significant. We have already had the opportunity to intervene in this area, which has led to elitisting and pushing families of lower incomes into areas far away from their places of work, which is a problem. We believe that urban areas, cities, villages must be for all layers of the population and that there can be no elitisting that has occurred.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u95	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u96	I will finish, Mr. President. I would just like to point out that State intervention is essential. We believe that public investment in increasing the supply of public housing is also essential as an intervention line to ensure access to housing for all. I would like to ask the honourable Member about her perspective on this matter. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u97	In reply, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u98	Mr. President, we know the prospects at stake here. The cities are beautiful, the cities are recovered, the cities are modern, they are cosmopolitan, they are full of tourists, they are pleasant. But where do people live? It's just that in cities people can't live because they can't afford to pay the rent and they can't buy home. People don't have a place to live. Ladies and gentlemen accuse the Left Block of prejudice! Lisbon is the third most expensive city in the world! There are frescoes where there are more houses in local housing than in housing. And we're the radicals?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u99	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u100	Is it radical who wants to defend the right to housing and a home for people to live? Radical is paying 1000 € for a basement in Lisbon when the minimum wage is 700 €! That's what's radical, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations from BE.]] Radical is to find a home in Lisbon or in Porto. Radical is not defending the right to housing. Mrs. Members, you can stop using the small owners and those who have experienced difficulties with the pandemic as an excuse, because I must tell you that many of these people, many of their children, their grandchildren, their uncles, their friends, today, cannot live in this city and today are impoverished because of the price of housing. Mrs. Members in Portugal, like the statistics brought by the IL, 90 % of entrepreneurs are small entrepreneurs, and then there are the other 10 % that control the whole economy. The same is true in the local accommodation. Few are the cities that do not control local accommodation — few are them! — and all of those who make it open exceptions to the small owners. The Block defends these exceptions. There is, yes, a place for small owners who want to rent their house in part of the year or just part of their house, but there is no place for a business that ends with the right to housing. Mrs. Members, the difference between us and the difference between the right and the PS, in this case of local accommodation, is that there are those who think that priority is business and what remains is for housing. We think that priority is housing and what's left is business. There are those who think and say that they have nothing against housing since housing does not question the right to have local accommodation. We say we have nothing against local accommodation, since local accommodation does not question housing. Both are ideological choices, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The choice for local accommodation is an ideological choice, it is the choice that puts the privilege of business above the right to housing. The choice we make is different, it's the choice that defends housing. The Socialist Party speaks of houses built, in affordable income, in the purchase of heritage. Question : Where are the houses? And where do people live? It's just that the problem has only worsened in recent years and people still have no place to live. Therefore, Mrs Maria Begonha of the Socialist Party, I ask you: does the PS want to solve the housing problem without risking real estate interests? in this case, it is exactly the same as neoliberals. Unless the PS is willing to regulate the local accommodation, to control a business that has become excessive and that is challenging the housing, it will not be able to intervene in the centers of the cities where the problem becomes felt. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, that is all that is at stake here. The choice is very clear. Is it business above the right to housing or is it the right to housing above the business? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u101	For a political statement on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since the INE ( National Institute of Statistics ) publishes data from national accounts, the economy has never grown as much as in the first quarter of this year, overcoming the growth of all the countries of the European Union. [[Rice from Mr. IL Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]] This result allows the country to exceed the results before the start of the pandemic by 1, 2 %, all of this after two years of confinement, definitions and profound uncertainties on the evolution of COVID-19 and its impact on economic activity. This behaviour of the Portuguese economy has made a decisive contribution to its internationalisation, whether through exports or through foreign direct investment. After 35 % fell in exports of goods and 54 % in exports of services, this quarter secured the return in real terms to the values of the fourth quarter of 2019. More: the confidence of investors in the country has always been consolidated, even in periods of pandemic crisis, with extraordinary external investment results, revealing a great ability to attract and retain foreign direct investment. If by 2020 Portugal was already in the top 10 of the most attractive European economies, the same study in relation to Ernst & Young, reveals that Portugal has climbed two spots in the ranking, having exceeded countries such as Poland and Ireland — imagine. [[Repeals of CH Deputies.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as I think it is easy to understand, none of these events happened by chance. The good performance of the Portuguese economy in the period 2016 - 2019, where it was possible to converge with the European Union, reduce the risk of poverty and resume the bet on qualifications, was interrupted for reasons other than us all, through the public health crisis that hit the planet. In the face of the extraordinary hardships faced by the Portuguese, the signs of robust recovery that are now presented also reflect the goodness of the measures undertaken, whose main focus was not only to ensure the maintenance of citizens' incomes, avoiding the collapse of the internal market and the living conditions of people, of course, but also to create all conditions for the essential of economic activity to be preserved in order to ensure its start-up as soon as the health conditions so permit. Despite the high and low levels that COVID-19 has provoked and, now, of the new constraints brought about by the war that amplified the inflationary tensions, Portuguese can take pride in their country. The largest trade fair in the world of industry, Hanover Messe, where it shows what is best done in this field, has Portugal as a partner country, with a massive presence of innovative companies capable of competing in the demanding international market. Germany's invitation to Portugal is on the one hand the recognition by the very competitive German industry of the maturity and competitiveness of this sector in Portugal. On the other hand, it is an unquestionable opportunity for our country to affirm its capacities for innovation and production, talent and resources available in an increasingly demanding environment for global reorganization of value chains and for deepening digital and green transitions. This opportunity will help to consolidate the contribution of the external market to economic growth and will give new impetus to the diversification of our economy, which has, in programmes such as the mobilization agendas, an acceleration of innovation, the creation of new products and the strengthening of our competitiveness. Hanover Messe will leave no room for doubts that, by paraphrasing the slogan chosen, Portugal makes sense to invest even more, develop and deepen industrial partnerships of international character, strengthening the levels of foreign direct investment that finance our economy, creating jobs and adding more innovation. Portugal also makes sense to buy more and thus reach the target of 50% of GDP exports (gross domestic product) in 2025 — doubling this contribution in just over 20 years — and thus relaunching the sustainability of our economic growth. The positive net exports that occurred in a few years during the governance of PSD/CDS were, above all, the result of the fall in imports from the erosion of the internal market that placed the Portuguese at risk. With the PS in the Government of Portugal, we will place external demand at the heart of our concerns, but, as in this first quarter, the increases in imports will reflect the needs of our citizens who, despite the crisis, have not seen their outstanding incomes. Mr President, we are moving towards a change in the standard of our economy, precisely with the contribution of industry, driven by innovation that allows us to diversify, add value and increase GDP through external demand and private investment. If in 2021 the Portuguese GDP has reached the highest level since 1990, the results of this quarter and the European Commission's spring forecast allow for a new record of around 5, 8 % to 2022, the best forecast of the whole European Union. Moreover, there is no doubt that one of the most visible aspects of this recovery is in the contribution of exports and investment and in particular of foreign direct investment, which in 2021 verified a new maximum of EUR 2, EUR 7 billion. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The presence of Portugal in Hanover as a partner country is a sign of the country's affirmation, but at the same time a responsibility not to stop, nor to change, the path that is being made. It is a path that, we know well, can only be successfully done if we have competitive companies and with innovation capacity, because they create wealth. But it can also only be done with qualified people and adapted to new challenges.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u103	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u104	Mr. President, I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The mobilization agendas should be on the ground before the summer, the capitalisation of companies should accelerate and the new fiscal incentive for recovery will help to promote investment, along with the tax benefits for structuring projects. With this framework, which joins the reinforcement of public investment, which creates conditions for the attractiveness of the country, we can maintain our ambition to progress in value chains with the manufacture of products of greater value added and thus increase the economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u105	Mr President, you have five requests for clarification. I assume you want to answer in two blocks.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u106	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u107	The first request for clarification belongs to Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Carlos Pereira, I am very surprised to see your reference to Portugal's celebration of finally recovering pre-COVID levels. I take advantage of the fact that I am a lot of youth in the galleries to remember an image, which circulates a lot on the Internet, of someone who celebrates, very happy, a conquest, to see, in the end, that is the third classified. The honourable Member is here celebrating the fact that Portugal has been one of the last countries of the European Union to recover pre-pandamy levels. It was only in 2022, when most European countries had already done so in 2021. That's no reason for us to celebrate. Mr President, I think it is very ironic that the PS comes to talk about external trade and its enormous advantages, because it was precisely during a PS government — after a recovery in which the current balance balance finally became positive, in 2012 or 2013 — that both the current balance balance and the commercial balance balance have not only fallen and have become negative in the last two years. So here we see the PS celebrating a huge victory of our external trade, of our exports, when what happened was exactly the opposite. That is, they celebrate, on the one hand, one last place and, on the other, one thing that they did not contribute at all—in fact, they only contributed to us being worse than before. But my question goes in the direction of another story: I cannot share literature, but it is important to emphasize that even authors in whom PS recognizes itself, like Paul Krugman, admit that a strategy to replace imports is dangerous to any country, because it diverts resources from productive sectors to others.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u109	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u110	I shall conclude, Mr President. However, we have a Minister of Economics — yours! — which defends one of the strategies that have caused the most poverty in this world outside and which is a protectionist strategy that goes against exactly what Mr has said there. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u111	Mr Ventura has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u112	Mr President, Mr Carlos Pereira, I begin to understand why the PS and the Liberal Initiative have some proximity. In fact, they both have one thing in common: they didn't realize anything about what they said! [[CH's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u113	They don't understand any economics!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u114	This is noticeable in both cases: nothing was noticed of what they said. [[Congrats from the CH.]] But there's something I've heard. [[PS protests and CH counterprotests.]] They love me, Mr. President, they love me!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u115	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us hear the speaker.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u116	Mr President, I will ask you for a 15-second tolerance for the time that has been taken from me.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u117	You've spent more than 25% of your time and you haven't said anything yet!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u118	Mr Carlos Pereira, there is one thing I realized, and I will say this in very clear language: we are on the right track, we are on the way to success and congratulations to Portugal — that is what you said. So I will give you figures that, yes, the Portuguese should know, Mr. In the last month, imports—are not exports, they are imports! — in Portugal more than twice as many exports have grown. However, the PS brings international trade to debate in this plenary. That is how his intervention should have begun: today, Portugal matters more than it exports, forgive Portuguese companies, forgive Portuguese. That's how I should have started! But there is more, Mr, I will do the portrait of the country in which you live: it is the country in which companies, for each euro of salary they pay, have to pay 1, 71 € on this net salary. I will repeat that I understand: for every net euro of salary, companies pay 1, 71 €. Tell me, where are we competitive? In none of our lands we are competitive! And you know that very well, as the PS knows very well. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. Deputies, Portugal today has 9. the highest tax burden of OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) — to 9. the highest in the OECD! — and this describes everything but a competitive country. Yes, it describes a country that crushes companies, crushes their dynamic forces and destroys those small, medium and large entrepreneurs who want to invest in Portugal. However, since you mentioned a study by Deloitte, I will mention another by Ernst & Young, who says, Mr, that the Portuguese tax system is 3. the least competitive of OECD. This is neither conversation nor literature nor images that no one perceives, it is very clear, Portugal is 3. the least competitive of OECD! How do you answer this?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u119	Mr. André Ventura, already with the 15 seconds of tolerance that you have requested, has exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u120	I will finish, Mr. President. Finally, Mr President, I would like you to answer this: how does it say that a country is on its way to success when we have the highest tax burden — 31, 5 % — of the OECD? That's what I'd like you to answer. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS protests and CH counterprotests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u121	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for a request for clarification. [[CH protests.]] The Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party now has to create conditions for us to hear the next speaker. Mr Rui Tavares, you have the floor. It has one minute.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Carlos Pereira, we rarely have a request for clarification here that is even a request for clarification. Well, this is one of these times. I do not know what the PS position on the Energy Charter Treaty is. I asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who told me that he should ask the Secretary of State for European Affairs. If I had asked you, I would say-CL-I should ask Mr Prime Minister. However, on this Treaty — which, in the 30 seconds which I have now taken into account, has been signed in Lisbon and which holds us to fossil fuels in Eastern Europe and large conglomerates, which places countries that are replacing fossil fuels with renewable energy, which Italy and France have already proposed to denounce, Portugal, as far as I know, has not yet taken a position. The question is: is this topic debated by the Socialist Party? Do you have a position on him? If they have, what is it? If you don't, why don't you?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u123	Thank you very much, Mr, including for being kept in regiment time. To respond to these three requests for clarification, Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor, which has 3 minutes to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, André Ventura and Rui Tavares, thank you very much for the questions that presented me. Starting to answer, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, before answering directly to the question, I would like to make a brief note, only my own, almost personal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u125	You didn't understand anything either! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u126	Mr Guimarães Pinto — and this has been obvious during the last few sessions — whenever he rises from his chair to make an intervention, a question, makes a great effort to almost glorify his intellectuality. [[CH's laughs.]] I tell you now that I am not going to create any restrictions on this, I think it is very good to do so, because it is something that has to do with each other, as you said one of these days. Each one is what it is, and I have nothing to do with it. However, all the Members who are here have been elected legitimately, have the arguments that they have and dispense with the sequence of literature that you are trying to systematically deliver in this House. If you have no respect for yourself or for your bench, have it for at least these people who are here, who have been elected, and for the Portuguese people! [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to the question itself, let me say the following: neither do I understand the hatred that the Liberal Initiative and Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto have for the success of the Portuguese economy and its performance. [[Rice from Mr. IL Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]] That is because you cannot find a single good argument for what is happening in the Portuguese economy. He can't! During the various speeches that you are making, there is not one argument that you are presenting to this House and to the Portuguese saying that Portugal is fine. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u127	You spend all of us!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u128	And it is curious that, not finding a single argument, every day the opposite is true, Mr President. Not only is the reality against it, but it is so much other literature that you do not distribute in this House, too. Part of this literature is precisely a study by Ernst & Young, who Mr. André Ventura tried to quote, which actually says that Portugal not only entered the top 10... [[CH protests.]] ... of the most attractive European economies — and I think that should not happen, Mr President! — as this year, the place has moved to the 8th place, in front of which you often speak, like Ireland or Poland, that you have already said systematically that you have passed over Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So once again, Mr President, something Portugal must be doing well for this to happen. Moreover, Mr, the reality is contrary - when he says that in the first quarter of 2022, we had the greatest growth in the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is true that we have not been able to do as quickly as other countries, but the forecasts indicate that we will do better, and this shows that the measures we are taking are good. And the gentlemen. Members of the Liberal Initiative have not yet presented any better measures to ensure that the Portuguese will get better.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u129	It's coming down more and then going up more!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u130	Mr. Deputies, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u131	I shall conclude, Mr President. Mr. André Ventura, I understand that you did not understand anything that I said, because you just said something absolutely unbelievable, that is, that Portugal had the highest tax burden on the OECD. Mr President, it is not true, I advise you to see it better. [[CH protests.]] Mr Rui Tavares, it seems clear that Portugal is the country of Europe which, everyone acknowledges, does not support and invest in fossil fuels. That seems more or less obvious to me. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u132	For a request for clarification, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Carlos Pereira, I welcome this on the subject of the debate in the Assembly of the Republic. I would like to begin by saying that there has been a reality that the epidemic has left much more obvious and much clearer for our country, in fact, was the deep external dependence we have on a set of goods. But it also made clear the productive deficit that our country has and the urgent need for policy and investment in promoting and encouraging national production. Normally, when the issues of economic growth are raised, it is customary — including by the Socialist Party — to refer to external trade. Obviously, this is an aspect of the economy that we do not devalue, but should be placed in a perspective of reducing the trade balance deficit, replacing imports by national production and promoting and draining national production. These central objectives require an active policy to defend national interests within the framework of the Community institutions and other international trade bodies and the diversification of external economic relations, in particular the deepening of the Portuguese official language countries. But there is another issue which is now very acute, given the escalation of prices, given that there are risks of breakdowns in supply and scarcity of goods, and that we are faced with imported inflation, and that it is linked to measures guaranteeing national sovereignty. It is necessary to combat the country's enormous dependence on food, energy, equipment, means of transport and medicines. As far as European sovereignty and external trade are concerned is concerned, the fundamental question is, as I said before, how we will replace imports by national production. It was on this issue that I would like to hear from the honourable Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u134	Madam Member, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u135	I will finish, Mr President, just ask me to finish the idea. How are we actually going to advance in this direction the production of more food, what do we need, medicines, equipment, means of transport? This is, in fact, the central issue of promoting national production, and I would like you to refer to it as well. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u136	For the last request for clarification of this intervention, Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira, of the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u137	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Carlos Pereira, it is always a pleasure to hear it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u138	Thank you!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u139	In fact, there is no country in Europe to impoverish more cheerfully than Portugal! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u140	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u141	With the socialist government, we go from victory to defeat and to the tail of Europe. I was listening, and I was thinking about what our exporting companies would think, when they hear the government glorify the result of their efforts to keep up with it, to promote exports and to grow again! I imagine what they won't think! [[PSD applause.]] Portuguese companies grew up despite the government and not with the government! But, Mr President, exporting companies obviously need support, particularly in matters related to logistics and also to maritime logistics. The truth is, as you know, the fruit of the pandemic and not only, all the costs inherent in this type of logistics, particularly freight and containers, have increased exponentially. This is a fact. At the hearing of Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, it was asked what concrete measures the Government had to support or mitigate this type of cost and thus support such exporting companies with which you fill their mouths. The Minister gave the most socialist of the answers: a working group. [[PSD laughter.]] There is nothing more socialist than a working group. It doesn't work out, but it's adjourned. [[PSD applause.]] Now, how do we know that the subject requires something more than a working group: Mr President, what concrete measures for support for companies in the field of logistics does the government have? Or don't you have any? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u142	You have now 3 long minutes Mr. Carlos Pereira to respond to requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, first of all, I thank Mrs Paula Santos and Mr Paulo Rios. By going directly to the many questions of Mrs Paula Santos, I would like to say something very important to me: on the side of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, we will not, in any way - quite the contrary, disregard all the policies that we will implement in support of the economy have this intention - of the importance of external demand and of the external market. That, in our view, is absolutely essential for the growth of our economy and is, in fact, decisive for the sustainability of that same growth. We believe that strengthening exports — which has indeed occurred over the years in which the PS has ruled — is very important in order to consolidate convergence with the European Union. That is, in fact, something that we will not rule out, as I said, we will continue to create measures and policies that promote these same exports, and the gains we already know more than 40% of GDP has been in exports, which is really very important. Another important thing, of course, is what the honourable Member has said and that we also share as a concern, which is, of course, to ensure that we maintain a balanced external balance. That happened to the pandemic. We have had problems during the pandemic, which we all understand, it is not worth discriminating them, but we have to go back to this course, which is indeed very important. The measures we have implemented, for example, the mobilising agendas, which allow for the creation of new products and new businesses, are indeed measures that enable national production to be consolidated. National production is not only agriculture, of course, has other kinds of valences, and we are truly betting on these kinds of approaches. I think that's the way. Mr. Paulo Rios, the issue of economic growth has again returned to the PSD bench. The honourable Member did not fall into the temptation to say that Portugal has diverged, others have already done so. Portugal had converged with the European Union, from 2016 to 2019, ceased to converge during the pandemic and reconverge at this time. The effort that has been made is in this sense. The honourable Member is not right when he says that exporting companies are growing because they do. There are measures by the State that have been implemented and that are naturally supporting these companies. I would like to recall that it was with the pandemic and with the extraordinary contemplatives of the pandemic that this government has implemented a set of measures whose aim, as I said from the first hour, was to ensure the maintenance of our productive capacity. The result we have today of export records was precisely because these measures have resulted.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u144	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u145	These measures have had results and now that it has been possible to resume activity we are having significant export growth above the European Union average. The same goes for investment. I must say, for the sake of truth, that it is not true that companies do not confirm this. In fact, I have an article here, which came out of one of the national newspapers, which basically also says so.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u146	Do you have literature? Oh, my God! I hope it's good!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u147	It speaks precisely of some cases of companies which, in some way, recognize the efforts made by the Portuguese State to ensure this way of increasing exports, ensuring the improvement of the external market and, above all, of successive foreign investment records, which you like to hide, hide, not talk about in it, but which are shocked for everyone to see that they are, of course, the success of the Portuguese economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u148	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u149	Mr. André Ventura, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u150	It is to make a request to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u151	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u152	Mr President has already asked us not to make Parliament a school, but, as we were accused of missing the truth, I would like to ask the Bureau, please, if you would not mind distributing the study of the Tax Foundation to the Socialist Party’s bench — since you want to talk about studies! — which says that Portugal has the highest average tax burden in the OECD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u153	Average! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u154	Let's get this study to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u155	Thank you, sir. For a political statement on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Last weekend, from north to south of the country and in autonomous regions, thousands of citizens participated in the direct elections of the Social Democratic Party, which resulted in the express election of Luís Montenegro as the new leader of the PSD, under the motto « Accrediting », believe that our country can return hope in the present and in the future, be to the new generations, be to the families living with difficulties, be to the older ones, who feel so often abandoned. To believe in Portugal : this is the guiding motto of the new elected leader of the PSD, Luís Montenegro, to which we, Members of the largest opposition party, echo from Parliament to the Country. [[PSD applause.]] But it is legitimate for this vision to raise doubts in many of the citizens accompanying this debate outside the Assembly of the Republic. Certainly, many will be asking: "Why should I believe in politicians, parties? Do not keep on seeking. ” We witness the inability of our economy to generate wealth that can reach all Portuguese. People work, work and feel they can't get out of the same place. Worse, many parents look at their children and realize that they risk leaving them poorer than the previous generation. The dream of guaranteeing our children a more comfortable life than we ourselves have had today is a mirage, and everything has been aggravated by two years of pandemic and now by the astronomical rise of the cost of life. Thousands of citizens and businesses are in a state of suffocation, with a government unable to present solutions to the needs of Portuguese people. Today, it is indeed difficult to believe in a better future. After seven years of Socialist Party governance, we have witnessed unprecedented degradation of public services in our country. This is the case with the increase in electricity and fuel prices, which endangers essential services of the State. The absence of government measures to minimize this impact leads to the failure of fire associations to perform critical functions, such as effective firefighting and patient transport. The reality is that patients in Portugal have less and less access to health. The Prime Minister has failed all the promises made and today there are 1 million and 300,000 Portuguese without a family doctor assigned. [[PSD applause.]] Just yesterday, Leiria's hospital closed the emergency service doors because of a lack of personnel. Health professionals are leaving the public health system because they are tired of being ill-treated by the SNS that they themselves helped build. [[PSD applause.]] The only place where the government takes health as a priority is in speeches, but promises do not heal sick. It is also the case of education: the government has promised daycare for all, but only 48 % of children between zero and three years of age have access. Worse, the government's inability to appreciate the role of teachers has led 30 000 students to be without at least one discipline today. Denying access to education for these children is denying them the future. [[Protests by PS MP Maria Antonia de Almeida Santos.]] But in the meantime, the Recovery and Resilience Plan ( PRR ) will arrive, the so-called « European bazauca », with billions of euros seeking to solve much of the country's problems. The plan has hardly begun and they are already beginning to sound alarm signals. The RPP Audit and Control Committee notes that the lack of staff is one of the main weaknesses in combating fraud in European funds. I mean, money comes, but no one controls it. We've seen this movie in the past and never ends well. We have a government led by an old minister of justice, but even Portuguese have access to a functioning justice. It is simply unacceptable that there have been processes waiting for treatment for more than 10 years, in some cases more than 20 years, in administrative and tax courts. This compromises our credibility as a country. Companies leave the country, potential investors flee and citizens who do not have their own means always lose. This is simply not worthy of a rule of law, no longer to speak of the saga of extinction or to extinguish the Service of Foreigners and Borders ( SEF ), at a time when the country receives thousands of refugees from the war of Ukraine. Still speaking of injustices, we see daily how social security insults pensioners in our country, people who have worked their entire lives, have reached the age of reform according to state laws, but then it is that same State that ignores them and pushes them to bureaucratic waiting lists. Sometimes you have to wait two or more years to have access to the pension that is from them by law. How do you explain this? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]] How can a government be so insensitive to those who have worked their entire lives, to the elderly in our country? Oh, my God! Honor be made, however, to the Socialist Government. There is an area where it is particularly competent. I really risk saying it must be the best in the world. There is no tax authority as effective as ours charging taxes. It is a pity that the government, which is so capable of charging taxes, does not understand that this entails the duty, obligation, to guarantee quality public services for all. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u157	Despite government failures, despite all this, the PSD calls on Portuguese not to give up. Poverty and lack of ambition must not be the fado of Portugal. With reforms, vision, leadership and determination, it is possible to aim for Portugal in the front platoon of Europe, in which all citizens can fulfil their potential. A better future is possible. We believe it. Believe me, too! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u158	The honourable Member has five requests for clarification to which I assume he responds in two blocks. The first request for clarification is from Mr Rui Tavares of the Free, who has 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u159	Mr President, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, continuing today in my path of genuine requests for clarification, I would like to give you an opportunity to clarify, in essence, what is the great question of the electorate, for a long time ago, about the PSD and its strategy for one day to return to government, as its legitimate ambition is. In the elections for PSD leadership there was a candidate who made it clear that, in his leadership policy, he excluded the party sitting on the far right of our Parliament...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u160	What does it have to do with it?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u161	Mr. President, if you could ask the party that is sitting on your extreme right, in view of your side, to let me finish making my request for clarification...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u162	Is that a request for clarification? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u163	Mr. Deputies, please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u164	It is the purest request for clarification. The other candidate, who finally won the elections, never clarified whether or not this party would be included in his policy of government alliances. [[PSD protests.]] The question, dear colleagues of the PSD, is not whether they are focused on public services nor are they focused on returning to government. It is a very simple question: do they or do they not include this party in your policy of government coalitions? Are we going to be clear on this until the next PSD Congress?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u165	Join the Congress as an observer.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u166	The debate is alive in the benches which, from a purely visual point of view, are at my right hand and will continue in the order of the regiment, now being the request for clarification to the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, with the floor Mr Pedro Pessanha.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u167	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, the PSD parliamentary board says, well, that it is concerned about the conditions under which health services and public services are located. Since this government took office, public services have suffered brutal degradation, with a particular focus on health and social security. It is also critical of the PSD to delay the state identification services or the state of transport, because, despite the reduction in social pass prices, the fact is that companies do not offer conditions of dignity to users. However, your bench has abstained from voting on proposals which have been put forward by the House and which are going to meet those of you and our concerns. In other words, they abstained in our proposal to implement a waste control system in the public sector, which would allow to cut where there is surplus and supply failures where they exist; they abstained in our proposal to hire health professionals for the Algarve region; they still abstained in our proposal to begin immediately the construction of the hospital in the Algarve. As such, we were surprised. They don't consider it, VV. For example, is it important that there is efficient and controlled management of state fats to deal with an increasing, degradation? The hiring of doctors for deprived areas and the construction of new hospitals, which would allow time to wait for assistance in consultations, surgeries and complementary means of diagnosis, are not important and will not meet your concerns? It is that we have the idea that ideology is first and only then will the citizens come. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u168	Thank you very much, Mr President, for having been contained in your regiment time. I now give the floor to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block to make a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, I would first of all like to stress here the "Korean" love that Castelo de Paiva has for Luís Montenegro and also welcome his election as President of the PSD. I must tell you that, knowing the Castle of Paiva well, my homeland, I know the evils that the PSD, when it was in government, did to the council. Let me give some examples of the reality of public services at that time: Castelo de Paiva had a court in operation, became more closed than open; Castelo de Paiva had family doctors for the entire population, became missing family doctors; Castelo de Paiva had health centres to function and a permanent service and no longer had. This is all when the PSD was in the government...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u170	These services were closed by Socrates, not by PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u171	It could continue, because this was the reality of public services and these were the difficulties that public services faced when the PSD cut, cut, not to meet the demands of the troika, as the PSD leader told us, but to go beyond the troika, because this was an ideological vision of the PSD. [[PSD protests.]] Luís Montenegro here in this Parliament, in this bench, with the country watching the public services at risk, with public officials being fired, with brutal emigration of the younger and unemployment at rates never seen in the democratic period, said: "Well, the country is better, people are worse! Do not keep on seeking. ” Now, Luís Montenegro, who is the new leader of the PSD, will put people back in your country analysis? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u172	Mr President, thank you very much for the discipline in the use of time. To respond to these three requests for clarification, Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u173	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful for the questions put and record that the only party that welcomed the new PSD President was the Left Block. It is curious, in a house where everyone invokes the need for democratic greetings, that only one party has done so. We appreciate the greeting. As for what Mr Pedro Filipe Soares came to do, at the end of the day, was an attempt to study history, we returned a decade ago. But it is worth it, then, that way in which the PSD, in fact, had to run a program that was imposed by the troika, because of the circumstances in which our friends of the Socialist Party left us.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u174	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u175	However, what we cannot forget — and that is what Mr Pedro Filipe Soares is talking about — is the set of problems that began to arise at that time in the courts, in health, in social security. The truth is, however, that you were already part of a government solution and, after almost a decade, we are worse than we were at that time. That's the point. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Deputy spoke in family doctors, but today we have reached a level where we have exceeded the number of Portuguese people without a family doctor by 2015. This leads us to Mr Pessanha's question, which I am grateful for, which addresses a number of health issues that are particularly relevant. The PSD defended and presented a set of proposals, which were all piped, as we know, by the absolute majority of the Socialist Party, so that competitive processes by the government will be initiated — zero cost! — to fulfill the promises in a set of hospitals in this country, including that of the Algarve. As far as hiring professionals is concerned, I have to tell you the following: if the National Health Service does not change its management model — and this is what the Democratic Social Party defends — unless it does not respect professionals, if it does not create conditions for professionals to want to stay in the SNS, these professionals will continue to leave. What happens today is that many professionals, many colleagues, doctors, leave the SNS to earn less, because they go to places where they will be respected, to have flexible schedules and to have working conditions. [[PSD applause.]] It is a profound change that this Socialist Party ignores that it is really necessary. I shall end with the question by Mr. Freeman, Rui Tavares. I think the joke is always, Mr. President, the extreme-left parties asking about the extreme-right, then the extreme-right asking about the extreme-left... [[PS and CH protests.]] We, fortunately, have a very beautiful garden in the back of the Palace of Saint Benedict, the Mr. Members can go to recreation, they understand the extreme parties, because the Democratic Social Party is concerned about the future of the country. I have just made an intervention about the feelings of parents who have children and who look at them knowing that they will leave them poorer than their own generation and the concern of Mr Rui Tavares is the Arrival and the extreme-right parties. There is a disparity here between what is the policy and the real problems of the country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u176	Mr João Dias, from the CFP, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u177	Mr President, Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite, I would like to congratulate you on the subject you have brought us here. In fact, the PSD has already used this holophoto technique. It places in the light of the holophoto the belief that he is truly concerned about the problem of the Portuguese, but behind and in the dark is that they are the true intention and the true policies of the PSD. When the PCP presents proposals and solutions to enhance professional careers, do you know what PSD, government and PS also defend? Performance assessment systems in which health professionals would take about 100 years to reach the top of the career. When the PCP approaches wage valuation as a fundamental element to fix professionals in the National Health Service, what the PSD defends is precariousness, it is freezing. And that is what is at the back of the holofote and that Mr here refuses to talk. Therefore, Mr President, you must be quite happy, you must be quite happy even with the policies that are followed by the PS Government. We criticize the PSD for defending them, but we also criticize the government because it could have already reversed measures, many of them started by the PSD government, but it has not yet done so. When the PCP presents the answers needed to fix more health professionals, because it is essential to have health professionals in the National Health Service, in particular when we present measures such as exclusive dedication or incentive to fix in the regions and in the deprived vacancies, the PSD rubs the hands of satisfaction... Mr. Member, in Alentejo, one of the regions of the country, if not the region of the country with the highest suicide rate, in the opening office of the missed vacancies, there were zero vacancies for psychiatry and pedopsychiatry ; vacancies for pedopsychiatry in the whole country. And vacancies for public health—and I remember that we are leaving a pandemic—you know how many vacancies have been opened for public health? Seven! For example, the honourable Member spoke here at the Leiria Hospital Center where the shortage is 41 vacancies. Do you know how many vacancies have been opened by the PS government? Six! At the West Hospital, they call for 80 % breaks to meet emergency care needs. In fact, to cover these needs are contracted to companies — and you so much like to use this regime — 298 000 hours. Do you know how many health professionals, how many doctors are required to hire to meet the needs of the surgical and basic emergency service of the West Hospital Center? 155 doctors, sir! I conclude by asking whether or not this is the perfect way that you also like and defend as the government. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u178	Mr Rodrigo Saraiva has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u179	Mr President, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, in his own person, for having made the political statement, I transmit to the entire PSD Parliamentary Group our greeting to the new leadership of the Social Democratic Party, hoping that it will in fact represent the possibility of building an alternative together to the Socialist Party. Secondly, I cannot fail to mention here that I was very surprised by Mr Pedro Filipe Soares' sympathy for North Korean votes because he thought that sympathy was more with Albanian votes. But let us, then, go to the PSD's political statement, welcoming the honourable Member for bringing here a subject to which the Liberal Initiative has devoted much attention and for having also been one of the conclusions of the recent debate on the State budget. For us, it is quite clear that this is a budget that will reinforce what has been known in recent years, which is the degradation of public services. Therefore, we are very aligned with this concern and are also aligned with the diagnosis that you have made in your intervention, by referring to the degradation of services to the level of civil protection — particularly in firefighters — health, education, PRR-related problems — a lot has been focused on the part of the management, but we could still remember the part of the option, where more than 80% is allocated to the state, as if the state were the solution for everything! — justice, SEF and social security. We are very aligned with the diagnosis you made, but also a good diagnosis would be expected of a person who is a doctor, so we agree there. I will therefore ask you two questions concerning the part of the prescription of solutions. The first of the two questions was whether, for example, this new leadership that the PSD will also bring about an evolution in the PSD discourse, so that it can also accompany us in various areas, particularly in health, education and social security, and so that it is possible for all of us to begin to understand what everyone says, that public services are actually understood as services to the public, which means that they should not be an exclusive State, that they can be open and that, on the limit, they can be indifferent to the citizen who uses these services who is the provider of these services.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u180	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u181	I'm sorry, Mr. President. The second question is whether they are also available for an amendment, in fact, in the tax system, because, as it was well remembered, now in the debate of the State budget, it is impossible to lower taxes with this system of IRS (tax on the income of natural persons) because with any change to be made « ai, that will move in the rich». [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u182	Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u183	Mr. President, thank you to the honourable Members. Deputies João Dias, of the Portuguese Communist Party, and Rodrigo Saraiva, of the Liberal Initiative, for the questions and thanks in particular to Mr Rodrigo Saraiva for the greeting by the election of the new leader of the Social Democratic Party. I note that the Socialist Party has no doubt about the degradation of public services, since there was no question... [[PS protests.]] Is there still a question from the Socialist Party, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u184	Mr. Deputy, I was dealing with a small incident that was taking place in the gallery. Mr. Deputy asked me, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u185	I will then be pleased to keep a specific round in order to be able to respond to the Socialist Party on this matter, if Mr President so understands. [[PS protests.]] Mr. João Dias, of the Portuguese Communist Party, raised a number of questions here, but began with a matter that we reject at all. The honourable Member has come to this House to say that the PSD 'pretends' — it was his words — he pretends to be concerned about people, because he has other obscure interests behind him. That's what I realized. The Communist Party says that we pretend to care about people, but you are the gentlemen who turned their backs on the people of Ukraine in the face of the invasion of Russia. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u186	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u187	The people? Oh, my God! If you stood up for the people, they wouldn't send any more weapons there! You're defending a neo-Nazi regime!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u188	They have come to us, and they actually have this ability to turn the game. [[PSD applause.]] In fact, when we look at the reality of the facts, you and the Members. Members of the Communist Party were involved in a government solution with the Socialist Party, signed an agreement, joined for years in a government solution that simply did not want to know about people. You guys have always put the ideology in front of you. Mr. Deputie is a nurse, he brought health issues here, but he prefers people to be in line for consultations, exams, and surgeries...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u189	But what are the solutions? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u190	... from what you see your situations resolved, because you refuse to let people go to the social sector or to the private sector. [[PSD applause.]] And Mr. Deputy comes to speak in public contests of health professionals, saying that there are no vacancies for public health professionals and psychiatry and out there. With what you should be worried about, more than that — and this is serious — it was the fact that there are vacancies that are then empty. People don't compete in competitions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u191	Why? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u192	And you know why? Because the National Health Service that you left as an inheritance, along with the Socialist Party, for this country, is a National Health Service that separates health professionals from them.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u193	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u194	Just look at the case, Mr. Member — today's data — of more than 5500 nurses... [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u195	Mrs. Members of the CFP Parliamentary Group have already made the request for clarification, now they have to hear the answer. Please, Mr, because you also have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u196	Thank you very much, Mr President. Sometimes it's also useful to listen and not just to talk. As I said, more than 5,500 nurses called for accountability. Do you know what that means? You know? It means that they are nurses who say: "We will not stop treating patients, but we have no conditions in the National Health Service to guarantee patients who will have access to the treatment they need and deserve. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD applause.]] This is not worthy of a rule of law and that is not what our Constitution promises to the National Health Service! That is why Mr Rodrigo Saraiva of the Liberal Initiative — and to conclude, Mr President — I would like to say to you that there is a will of the Democratic Social Party here to work with partners on issues on which we share a view of health, education and social security. There is a way to ensure that ideology does not serve as a barrier that prevents solutions from reaching those who need the most, the most vulnerable, the Portuguese that they face every day with public services that simply do not work. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u197	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u198	Mr. Eurico Brilliant Dias, would you like to use the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u199	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau. Unfortunately, there has been some misunderstanding, but we had the conviction that Mr. Luís Soares was registered to make a request for clarification to the PSD, in particular...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u200	Did you remember now? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u201	... not only because the issue is interesting, but also because the framework of the speech of the Member concerned at the beginning the recent election of the President of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u202	The honourable Member knows that my criterion is always the same. Therefore, for the sake of political debate, I do not mind giving the floor to Mr Luís Soares if no parliamentary group opposes. [[CH protests.]] Is that enough?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u203	Mr President, I would like to take the floor for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u204	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u205	Mr President, we are not going to oppose Mr Luís Soares speaking, but what is true is that this is a feature of the Socialist Party and it is no longer the first time that happens. We know that they have an absolute majority, they are 120 Members, but they have an obligation to remember. It is not only when Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite attacks the Socialist Party who remember that they are also registered to request clarifications. Here, there are rules. But for our part, we do not mind Mr Luís Soares asking for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u206	All right. So there is no parliamentary group if I oppose—and this is not an out-of-time inscription, it is a matter of communication between the first row of the Socialist Party’s bench and the Bureau—I will give the floor to Mr Luís Soares, to ask for clarification, and I pray you respect the two-minute limit. Then I will also give the floor to Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, who wants her to answer. Please, sir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u207	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I thank all parliamentary groups for their tolerance in correcting this step. The first note I wanted to leave was precisely to greet President Luís Montenegro, the new leadership of the PSD, for whom I have a personal esteem, and to wish the greatest success. Then I wanted to tell Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite that it took seven years — seven years! — to believe again in the future. That's what I told us. It is appropriate to say « dead king, put king». We therefore really hope that it will be now that the PSD will meet again with social democracy and, as we have seen today, with the defence of public services. It is that what we have of memory is precisely the opposite: dismissals in the Public Administration; increase of 35 hours to 40 hours of work; a set of cuts in wages, and not only in the Public Administration ;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...and, as you said, impoverishment. Today, with the Socialist Party, the Portuguese again believed that it is possible to live the day following better than they lived the day before. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today, we don't tell the Portuguese that they have to impoverish. Then, Mr President, it is also necessary to say — and I sincerely say this — who is interested in the speech that public services do not respond. It is that the idea that is behind a speech in these debates is always the idea that there is a hidden agenda, not only in the PSD but in the parties on the right. And that needed to be absolutely clear. It must be made clear that the PSD today makes the act of contribution, schedules the need to discuss public services, because it truly believes in the Public Administration, in the role of the State and in what it means to combat inequalities, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And that is not clear today. With regard to the National Health Service, just say the following...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u208	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u209	I will finish, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u210	So, finish it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u211	With regard to the National Health Service, there was a moment last week when the PSD could have been re-founded with the defence of public services, having voted favourably a State Budget which, in health, gives more than 700 million euros. And what did the PSD do? The PSD once again voted against this State budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u212	To reply, I have the floor of Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u213	Mr President, I thank the House for allowing this extra round of questions from the Socialist Party and thanking the Socialist Party for the new leadership of the PSD, in the person of Mr Luís Soares. After the greeting, he said something about « dead king, put king». I don't know if you were remembering Tó Zé Seguro, or someone like that, but certainly wasn't from the PSD bench. [[PSD applause.]] Mr President, in fact, in view of the seriousness of what I said to that pulpit — because I think it is serious what I said, and Mr acknowledges that it is — for example, when he said that a person who ends his contribution career is two years or more waiting to have access to the pension to which he has the right, there is not a word from the Socialist Party and therefore we know it is true. When they promised daycare and pre-school for all children and then we see that the proposals that are on the table only resort to the social sector, we know that this will not solve the problem in four years, but we did not hear a word from the Socialist Party. When he said that there are waiting times in 10-year-old administrative and tax courts, 20-year-olds, a serious problem in justice, which affects all the fabric of social trust between citizens and the state, there is no word of the Socialist Party. When we can not, in a reasonable time, mark the renewal of the citizenship card, there is not a word of the Socialist Party. [[PS protests.]] The honourable Member is coordinator of the Health Committee, he knows from the waiting lists that grow for consultations, surgeries and examinations and there is indeed no word from the Socialist Party. So, Mr, what I have to tell you is the following: what we believe is not in the matter of the State,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u214	It's private!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u215	...we believe in Portuguese and believe in the potential that exists in Portuguese to be able to do what is necessary. [[PSD applause.]] When we talk to the gentlemen. Members of the Party...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u216	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u217	Thank you, Mr. President, I will finish now. When we say that the Socialist Party has an ideological barrier that prevents the country's progress, it is because they do not trust people, do not trust institutions, do not trust companies, do not free the potential that exists in our country,... [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] ... and that the Social Democratic Party will release when one day it is again being government of Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u218	For a political declaration, on behalf of the Party Persons-Animal-Nature, Mrs Inês Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u219	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since 2014 the abuse of pets has been punished in our country. This amendment, brought to this House by the hand of the PS and the PSD, at the time deserved the consent of the parliamentary majority, as well as the successive amendments that have taken place, which also merited the same consensus. Moreover, the last of these amendments, in 2020, with the empowerment of the « death » damage of pets in relation to the aggravating circumstances that could lead to this damage and the adaptation of the Code of Criminal Procedure, at that time deserved the unanimity of all the political forces in this House, including the same political forces as this Parliament today. It happens that, on May 5, the third time, the unconstitutionality of the criminal norms of our Criminal Code that put the abuse of pets was declared. There were three specific cases of maltreatment, the same rules, the same section and the same decision. at this moment, we do not know how the question will be appreciated by the plenary of the Constitutional Court advisers, but we want to believe that it will not let the country fall into what would be a huge civilizational retreat, a real journey in time, by before 2014, when killing a pet or mistreating it for pure pleasure or cruelty were no crime. And because it is important to recall what is really at stake, I am summarising the first specific case that was based on this whole decision, using the facts proved and contained in the judgment of the Evora Court of Appeal. Year 2016. The bitch was kept running. Having not been sterilized, no pregnancy or health care has been prevented. At the end of the pregnancy period, seeing that the bitch began the delivery process, her detainee decided not to ask for veterinary assistance. After several hours of the bitch's suffering, she decided to tear it apart. from its interior removed at least six young, three of them alive, leaving two fetuses inside its pelvic cavity. The bitch, still alive, covered with blood and fluid, with extreme pain and in great suffering, was kept lying on the floor of the backyard. Regardless of his status, his detainer put all six kids in a plastic bag in the trash container. The bitch and her cubs are dying. These are the facts proved in a specific case, if it has reached the Constitutional Court, but there are others, such as the one of Santo Tirso or the one of the three-year-old Roxy bitch, killed by the boyfriend of her mistress, in a context of domestic violence, with a stab in her chest, naked and torn apart. A screaming case that reminds us of the link between the abuse against animals and the ill-treatment and cruelty against people. This connection, moreover, is already studied in several countries, and also in Portugal, and recognized by entities such as the Federal Bureau of Investigation itself, which makes it clear that, in cases marked as psychopathy, ill-treatment often starts in animals, ending up escalating violence to people. Having heard these facts — all of them proved in court — it is impossible, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that the non-criminalization of these conducts can be regarded as corresponding to a minimally evolved society and to be declared unconstitutionality of this regime. Society adapts itself, is dynamic, evolves and interprets too conservative and literary of the law, even though of the Basic Law, they do not co-operate with this evolution and the social pulse. I recall that, before this regime was approved, there were several initiatives of citizens who arrived at the Assembly of the Republic, gathering thousands of signatures, and specifically calling for the criminalization of animal abuse. We firmly believe that there is a legal good protected by criminal norms, including the life and physical integrity of animals, and this justification, even if it has its primary source in environmental law, constitutionally enshrined, is not exhausted from it, it is also supported by collective and diffuse rights and interests, as often happens in other types of crime, such as lenocinium, or even trade rights. It is no longer acceptable for animals, while living beings who have hunger, thirst and feel pain, to be treated as inanimate objects and whose importance ends at the limit of our own convenience. When the suffering or pain of an animal is at stake, the right cannot be alien or close the eyes, and this is clear when the prohibition of animal abuse begins to be understood as a true general principle of international law. Our Criminal Code, in our view, is indeed inadequacies in this area, which do not deal with the absence of a legal good to be protected when it comes to animals, but rather with the lack of adequate legal goods, in particular those of the other animals, other than pet animals. In spite of the legal status and the numerous complaints of ill-treatment and abandonment that are made annually, the Criminal Code has not yet followed developments in the criminal law of other countries or the challenge of civil society which is calling for this legislative amendment, in particular with the extension of criminal protection to all animals sensitive and not only pets. The functional and subjective criterion, as we know, hinders the interpretation and application of criminal norms and, so far, of the constitutional foundation of this limitation. Therefore, the NAP has again presented a legislative initiative which, based on and inspired the existing Spanish model, aims at correcting the one that is a horrendous injustice of treatment among animals that do not feel differently. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with an issue which, as I have already mentioned, has merited broad consensus from this Parliament. We have the opportunity to densify the existing regime for the protection of pets, to extend it to other animals and to do it without losing sight of the objective and without allowing ourselves to be led by the deviant noise of that same objective. This is not just a matter. The fact that we have the possibility to be here, to represent a party that has in its name not only the defence of persons, but also of animals and of nature is a demonstration that people are interested and will never accept any backwardness in relation to the protection of animals. Animals, in their fragility, have no way of defending themselves and civil society expects all of us, in this Chamber, to defend and protect them. We know that there is a broad consensus, particularly that which has already been generated between the NAP and the Socialist Party in the previous legislation, to extend the criminalization of ill-treatment to all animals. We hope that the other political forces will join us all.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u220	Madam Member, the Bureau shall record three entries for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u221	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u222	All right, Mrs. Deputy. The first request for clarification belongs to Mr Paulo Ramalho of the PSD. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u223	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, a word for Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, because it allows us to clarify the subject here in some way. First note: I am pleased — I think we are all left — that the honourable Member recognises that the legislation that is in force and has allowed the introduction of Article 387. the Criminal Code, and the criminalization of animal abuse, occurred before the NAP exists. That is, before the NAP existed, the PSD and other political forces, such as the Socialist Party, were already interested in these issues. In fact, recently my colleague João Marques reminded me that he was with Mr Antonio Maria Pereira of the PSD, who for the first time in 1995 created a kind of animal rights law.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u224	Well remembered! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u225	On the other hand, it is very important to realize that this is an issue that concerns all of us, including civil society, municipalities and also farmers, Mrs Deputy, because often Mrs Deputy forgets those people who produce food of animal genesis. In the case of municipalities, I want to tell you that, for example, there are municipalities of the PSD, such as the one of Maia, to which I and my colleague Márcia Passos belong, which even has canine parks and is currently building a centre of excellence for animal welfare, which means that we are making our way in the right direction. Secondly, I would like to tell you that, for example, in terms of agricultural holdings — perhaps it is a fact that the NAP is little known — we have at present, Mrs Deputy, more than 80 % of dairy farms or dairy farms certified in animal welfare. So I can't understand how you're here asking you to extend the criminalization of abuse to pets...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u226	You didn't realize it was anything we were talking about! You didn't really understand anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u227	... to all animals, including production animals.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u228	Mr President, you have long exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u229	In conclusion, I just wanted to leave the next question: how does the honourable Member intend to change the issue that I brought here today? Through a constitutional review? Through a simple change of law? What is the solution you have in mind at this time? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u230	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u231	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, we welcome the initiative that brings us, but I would like to leave two previous notes: the separation of powers leads this House to have to pronounce itself and deal with the jurisprudence of the higher courts, notably the Constitutional Court, once produced, amending what it has to change, in order to make corresponding to the interpretation which it has to interpret, but, secondly, it should also be prudent to wait for the final decisions. And it was at this point of detail that I would like to emphasize two or three things. There are, in fact, three cases in which the Constitutional Court, in concrete supervision, felt that it was unconstitutional in the rule that criminalized the ill-treatment of pet animals, which is now Mr. Deputy, was the subject of legislative intervention by the authorship of the Socialist Party and the Social Democratic Party, in particular by Mr. Cristovão Norte and myself, which we signed the initiative in 2014. However, what the Constitutional Court noted was two things: there is no understanding among the judges who agreed that there was unconstitutionality. Some of them felt that the legal good was lacking, as the honourable Member pointed out, but curiously, the majority did not meet there, but rather because some others felt that the law was indeterminable, it did not have sufficient destabilities. This is no longer an issue which is insufficient to Parliament. We can and should take into account the state of the art of the parliamentary work of previous legislatures, in particular those in which there was even an agreement between the Parliamentary Group of the PAN and the Socialist Party on this matter, to do two things simultaneously: to clarify in detail the concepts, so that there is no doubt, and then, as regards the aspect which the honourable Member has referred to, eventually, to extend the scope of protection to other species, also to make it absolutely clear that the economic activities which must be exceptional, as is the case in Spanish law, will remain exceptional. And this is the consensus that it is possible to continue to meet in this House. The 2014 consensus, moreover, was quite broad, because criminalization was achieved practically only with the votes against the CDS, and the creation of the Statute of the Animal Company or, better, with the Statute of the Animal, distinct from the status of things in the Civil Code, achieved unanimously in the next legislature. Therefore, Madam Member, what I have to ask you is whether on the one hand you do not think it is preferable to wait for the final conclusion of what is now the case-law of the Constitutional Court before we move towards amendments that may not be necessary, and...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u232	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u233	I will finish, Mr. President. On the other hand, I ask you whether it is not preferable to take the firm steps that have been taken, prudently, by strengthening the protection in the Criminal Code, in the Civil Code, but always saving balances which, fortunately, this House, in the past, has managed to guard. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u234	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, from the Left Block, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u235	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, the issue that brings us here is relevant and relevant because, on the one hand, it may call into question a law which has a very broad scope in this House, and this concerns us, and on the other, it may call into question the defense of animal welfare, opening up space for a full brutality over the animals we thought the law itself had helped to transform as part of the past and not as part of the present. There may be a constitutional problem, but we cannot have a complete answer to this question, because there is still a need to answer your sovereign, who is the Constitutional Court at all. With the possibility of bypassing this constitutional difficulty, changing the law to make it more determined in what is meant by animal abuse, I believe that we can follow this path before we leave for a constitutional change. And I think there's an extended space in this House to get us to track this path successfully. We know that in this space, in this House, there are those who rise up against the rights of animals—and this legislative process will demonstrate—because there are people who confuse the rights of animals with an eccentricity of those who respect living beings, and we respect living beings, we respect conscious beings, we respect animals, but from this point of view, what life has already shown us is that in society and here, in Parliament, we are able to achieve large majority in defence of this modernity and this progress, and I believe that we will continue to do so in the future. That is why, Mrs Deputies, the question I leave to you is this: is the PAN, is the Member available for us to be able to deepen this legal amendment, with a view to making it more determined, in the law, what do the ill-treatment of animals and thus respond, in a preventive manner, even to another decision that may come from the Constitutional Court? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u236	To reply, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u237	Mr. President, thank you to the honourable Members. Mr. Paulo Ramalho, Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves and Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares asked me questions. I would begin precisely by the PSD to tell Mr. Paulo Ramalho, with due respect, that he did not hear anything I mentioned and did not actually realize what we were talking about. Of course, I did not call for breakfast the economic activities that settle on the animal holding. And, despite what may be ideological differences, I referred to the Spanish model, which is a model where there are other activities that in nothing are associated with animal abuse outside what is strictly planned. Now, it is this densification that the NAP defends and is this path that we really think we should follow, as I said, without noise and without deviation from the objective, because we are talking about respect and sensitivity to other living beings who are also able to suffer. What we cannot admit is that, if the law expressly states that an animal should not be subjected to ill-treatment, regardless of the purpose for which it is arrested, it does not make sense for the legislator to follow that same amendment. I would also like to note that the NAP not only recognises that there have been steps taken here by a large majority, which are going to densify the existing regimes, such as this is the way we should be doing — and this is at stake in the questions raised by the honourable Members. Mr Pedro Delgado Alves and Mr Pedro Filipe Soares — despite the ideological question of defending that, in a revision of the Constitution itself, even herself, extended to other subjects that we have already talked about, such as the age of minors to vote or that of matters related to illicit enrichment, constitutional dignity should also be given to animal protection. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, that is not the debate we are having here, the debate we are doing is that of the imminent decision by the Constitutional Court, and that we do not know what decision is going to arise. There is, however, a path for the legislator to make, in particular, the clarification of the legal goods in question and the densification of the existing regime in order to effectively prevent future situations. The NAP is available to take this path, in fact, we have already presented an initiative aimed at extending the Penal Code to all animals and, within this initiative, as well as to those which other parties may present, we believe that there is a path that the legislator can take to prevent these situations. It is a duty we have, in the face of the imminentness of an incomprehensible civilizational retreat. We believe that the Plenary of the Constitutional Court — despite the separation of powers and with all due respect to us by the Constitutional Court — cannot have such insensitivity or create a loud omission in our legal order which calls into question the preventive purposes of penalties, on the one hand, but also that which is, often, the link between ill-treatment of animals and people. But even if we do not talk about the connection between animal abuse and humans, the mere fact that we must respect animals, while living beings with sensitivity, and do not inflict any form of abuse on them, should indeed call on the legislator to make this amendment. More: civil society is thus so alarming for this theme that from 2020 to 2021 reports related to animal abuse increased by 1 % in accordance with the Annual Internal Security Report itself. Today, we have an ever-increasing society and there is, therefore, a path that we need to take. We are available for this and, as already mentioned, we know that there are those who will not follow us, but History will also dictate who has been on the right side, and we know that democratic political forces and who also have sensitivity to nature and animals are on the right side. We will be available to make that path with whom we are available to follow.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u238	For a political declaration on behalf of the Free Party, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u239	Mr. President, Dear colleagues : At the beginning of this debate for political statements, both Mrs. Joana Cordeiro of the Liberal Initiative, and Mrs. Diana Ferreira of the Communist Party of Portugal, reminded us of the World Day of Children, which was celebrated yesterday. Let me use that date as a starting point for the political declaration I bring here. Yesterday I read news that the Ministry of Defence of the Russian Federation — hence the source of the Russian Federation — admits to having carried out the transport of more than 200,000 Ukrainian children to the territory of the Russian Federation. Having each of us, each of us, the diagnosis that we have about the current war in Ukraine, considering this justified transport or, as we consider it, unjustified, as well as the use of the deportation of minors for war purposes, I believe we can all agree: the 21st century Europe is returning to the methods of war of the 20th century, with intentions and objectives that are of the 19th century and its imperialism. That's what we need to know how to answer. It is true that, from 24 February onwards, the Russian Federation, headed by Vladimir Vladimirovitch Putin, would have annexed Ukraine in 10 days if it could. What does the European Union respond to? That at the request of Ukraine to join the European Union, which was formally formulated on 28 February four days after the invasion, Ukraine may take 10 years or more to enter the European Union. And it may take 10 years, or more, because Portugal has also taken almost 10 years to join the European Union. But one thing is membership, another is the admission of the candidacy, and that is what we have to discuss, during this month of June which is now beginning. It is true that it is up to the European Commission to make the questionnaire to Ukraine, to which Ukraine has already answered, if it is true that it is up to the European Commission to deliver its opinion and that it is up to the European Council, in which the Heads of State and Government are represented, to express themselves unanimously, that cannot make us resign neither to the companies of the Member States of the European Union nor to each one of our public opinions, nor to each one of our Parliaments, to express their views on this very simple matter. And it is not whether Ukraine should enter the European Union or not that Ukraine already meets the criteria for entering the European Union or not that Ukraine should enter the European Union, that is what Ukraine is asking for now to know if we let it go to the European Union. That answer, which must be simple, to such a simple question, should be clarified and should be enlightening. Basically, we admit that Ukraine has the right to be a candidate or does not even leave Ukraine to enter the European Union, but what is at the door of the European Union? Oh, my God! from a political point of view, the effect of each of these answers could not be clearer. If Ukraine is formally a candidate for the European Union from the end of this month, this means that we will be telling Ukraine not only rhetorically that it belongs to Europe but, more than that, that it has a European perspective, provided that it meets the conditions of the rule of law, fundamental rights, democracy, respect for minorities, finally all the conditions of the acquis communautaire. But if we are saying that Ukraine cannot even be a candidate for the European Union, we will not only be disappointing all the hopes that we have been addressing Ukraine during these months of war, saying that we are with the Ukrainians, as we are giving a huge political and moral victory to the Russian Federation of Putin. It is true that the Russian Federation of Putin does not sympathize with the bureaucracy and the regulations, which are the superiority of the European Union, but, if Vladimir Putin accelerated history, it would be to miss the historic duty of the European Union itself not to understand that history has accelerated. Can you ask me: will Ukraine be a country that is still at war, which is in convulsion, be advised to tell Ukraine that it can be a candidate for the European Union? Well, in the minute I'm left, let me tell you about a country out of a dictatorship, still in political convulsion, a country called Portugal. In 1974, Portugal had just had a revolution. In the summer of that year, among some European tourists who were visiting us was a Dutch Prime Minister, Labourman, Comrade of Mário Soares in the Socialist International, who went on vacation to the campsite in Monsanto and who, in short, of his tent, was taken to the Embassy of the Netherlands, to issue the first statement of a then Member State of the European Economic Community, telling Portugal, in the summer of 1974, « apply for your candidacy to be well received ». The question that will be put at the end of this month to the Prime Minister of Portugal is whether he is up to this political gesture of his Dutch predecessor or whether he is going to follow the realpolitik of his ally Emmanuel Macron, in France, i.e. if he is going to say « Ukraine has the right to be a candidate, he has the right to submit his application file » or « at this time, in order not to meld Vladimir Putin, it is better to wait outside the door ».
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u240	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u241	On the Free side, of course, Ukraine has the right, the same right as Portugal, to submit its candidacy and we hope that during this month many political groups will follow us and Portugal will be on the right side of history at the European Council at the end of the month.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u242	Mr President, the Bureau records the inclusion of three Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, request clarification. Will you answer together?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u243	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u244	Thus, the first request for clarification is from Mr. João Paulo Rebelo of the Socialist Party, who has 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u245	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rui Tavares, thank you, of course, for this subject that brings us today. Mr President, I would like to say from now on that I will also make a request for clarification, but before that, I cannot but make two or three points. Mr President, Portugal not only allows Ukraine to knock on the door of the European Union, such as this Parliament, and Portugal, to open its doors to Ukraine. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Even very recently, and you will be reminded, we have had President Zelenskyy address this House and today the President of the Assembly of the Republic has also received a Ukrainian envoy. Therefore, Portugal and, in particular, the Socialist Party is, of course, next to those who defend democracy, those who defend the rule of law. Since the first hour, we have never had the slightest doubt in condemning this barbaric invasion that Russia is doing to Ukraine. The request for clarification is, in fact, the following: does Mr Rui Tavares believe that the political, economic and legal criteria for accession or not contribute to giving, in essence, cohesion and coherence to this political project, which we care so much about, which is the European Union? And if, indeed, how do you think this process should happen, that it is not exactly to carry out the procedures, to carry out the procedures and to take the necessary path to integration as it should naturally happen with the open door to this country? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u246	For a request for clarification, Mr. Paulo Moniz, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u247	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rui Tavares, I would like to begin by congratulating myself on the fact that we have brought this issue to the debate of the greatest importance at the time we live, but I would like to tell you that we consider it extremely important that the sixth package of sanctions has been approved. However, and as we have said in due course, we believe that it was not only late, as the Portuguese Government did, in assuming the importance, relevance and urgency of the adoption of these measures. In fact, the Portuguese Government, in these matters, has hoped that others will then lead to solidarity. It is customary to say that 'after eating, there is no shortage of spoons' and, in this regard, it has been the position of the Portuguese Government in relation to the great options in which it should take the lead. I also say that it is important for the PSD that Ukraine has access to the candidate status. We said it and we reaffirm it, but we also have the consciousness, realism and serenity to realize that it is a process that has its own moment, its normal course and, therefore, we must not mislead anyone on this matter. Having said this, after hearing the rostrum, I am greatly doubted: do you consider, as we do, that the Government of the Socialist Party, the Portuguese Government, has gone after the damage, has not been proactive, has not been led, goes drag with the other governments in support of Ukraine? Does it not consider that the Government of the Socialist Party has had this delay in reaction and this inaction in the face of a leading Europe? It is a question to which, despite the emergence of this majority, I would like to hear the answer, in the freedom of thought. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u248	Also to make a request for clarification, Mr Ventura, of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u249	Mr President, Mr Rui Tavares, thank you, too, for your speech and for the subject which brought the debate. Mr President, on a question put by Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite recently asked the PSD about whether it would be available for understanding with the Arrival. I am not going to return the same question to the Socialist Party for one reason: it is that there is no need for any clarification for this, the Free has been under the Socialist Party for a long time, living entirely under the shadow of the Socialist Party. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Therefore, there is no need for clarification about this. I also do not think that comparing Portugal in 1974, 1975, or 1973 with Ukraine is an honest comparison. Portugal is a founding member of NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ). Portugal is not any country, in the framework of world defence and European defence, Portugal is a founding member of NATO and was a founding member soon after World War II, when we were still far from the regime in which we are living today. Portugal was a founding member of NATO. Compare the situation in which Portugal lived in 1974 with that in which Ukraine lives today, Mr Deputy, even for a historian, is very, very displaced. I would like to ask you two very specific questions on this subject. The arrival is in full agreement with Ukraine's candidate status for the European Union. But what steps would the honourable Member take? As you know, the European Union has and requires a consolidation of the internal legal system in respect of freedom of movement, liaison or harmonisation with the Court of Justice of the European Union and therefore there is a whole process to be done, consolidation and harmonisation, in line with the rules of the European Union. What I ask you is whether you think these rules should be complied with or whether we should simply go over them as if they did not exist. The second question, following what has already been asked by the PSD, is whether or not you agree that Prime Minister António Costa and the Socialist Government have always been very reluctant and very reluctant in significant progress in the European Union's response to Russia, in imposing sanctions on Russia and even in the support relationship to Ukraine. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u250	In response to these three requests for clarification, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u251	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Deputies João Paulo Rebelo, Paulo Moniz and André Ventura, it is natural that the requests for clarification have been addressed to me, but I myself, with the requests for clarification, was not very clear about which positions are, after all, at least the PS and PSD, in relation to the candidate status of Ukraine. I believe that, basically, the question we have to ask is very simple: what do we have to lose with the fact that Ukraine can be a candidate and negotiate, one by one, all the dossiers of the acquis communautaire, until it can or does not adhere? And the answer is also simple: we have nothing to lose. We must lose ourselves if, as we have already seen in other cases, with other countries to which we feed our hopes—and, yes, dear colleague Mr Rebel, we have opened the doors of this Parliament to President Zelenskyy—we will then tell him, "wait, let us consider your candidacy to the European Union when we have been wandering about it and when President Macron is resting in relation to not undermining the feelings of the President of the Russian Federation". That, yes, would be to disappoint the hopes that have been placed in us. We have seen this happen in other cases, with countries that were making their reforms to respond to a European perspective, when their societies realized that they were not really loved in the European Union. From that point on, it opened the door for authorities, such as Mr Erdogan, in Turkey, basically took account of the rule of law of those countries and made them return. That's what can't happen. There is all the advantage of starting a candidacy process and, then, yes, making all the demands, in terms of deepening, as the three Members have asked in different ways. These reforms are better done during the application process and should therefore not be expected to begin. It is true, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Germany, Annalena Baerbock said today, that we should not only consider the enlargement process on the table, that of Ukraine, but also that of Moldova — which, with all legitimacy, hopes to see its candidacy considered — and that of the countries of the Western Balkans. At the same time, we must deepen our European Union, particularly with regard to the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights. We do not want to repeat what is already happening in the European Union, where we have a government, such as Hungary, which undermines European unity, from a perspective of defending Mr Putin's interests, and we see politicians like Salvini or Le Pen, who are Vladimir Putin's greatest allies within the European Union. And even those who today are allies of these Salvini and Le Pen make a rhetorical defense of Ukrainian rights,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u252	Again? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u253	... but then, in practice, when the time comes to give Ukraine the same right that Portugal had in its time, they say « no, no, wait there, do not compare Ukraine with Portugal ». Surely the Ukrainians, whose rights here, rhetorically, some of these allies of Salvini and Le Pen say to defend, will feel very disappointed when they see that, after all, nothing has changed and that these allies are, in fact, there at the bottom, allies of Putin.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u254	What? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u255	We have thus reached the end of the first item on our agenda. We will move on to the second point, with the general discussion of the Bill No 8 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 1, which aims to empower the competition authorities of the Member States to apply the law more effectively and ensure the proper functioning of the internal market. To present this bill of government, Mr. Secretary of State of the Economy, João Neves, to whom I comply, has the floor. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u256	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government shall submit to the Assembly of the Republic, after the expiry of the previous legislative procedure, an initiative within the framework of the rules of operation of the European Union, with a view to effective application of the law, on behalf of the smooth functioning of the internal market, implementing Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 1, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018. These are four main objectives of this legislative initiative. First, strengthen the guarantees of independence of the national authority, with adequate means and competences to carry out their duties. Secondly, strengthening the mechanisms for the smooth functioning of the internal market and strict compliance with competition rules, which are crucial to enhancing the competitiveness of the economy. Thirdly, to promote the confidence of businesses and consumers by removing erroneous perceptions of impunity. Fourthly, remove elements that hinder investigation and enhance the application of sanctions that fulfil an effective deterrent effect. In order to comply with the obligation to transpose, the amendment of two determining legislative diplomas was promoted: the first is the Statute of the Competition Authority and the second establishes the legal regime of competition. Among the main changes promoted in the Statutes of the Competition Authority, I would point out : firstly, the strengthening of the guarantees of independence and impartiality of the members of the Board of Directors, leaders and employees, provided for in their amendments to the Statutes, in particular in respect of two main aspects, such as specifying that the members of the Board of Directors, leaders and employees, in the performance of their duties, do not request or accept instructions from the Government or any other entity and, in addition, to increase the list of incompatibilities and impediments of the members of the Board of Directors, leaders and workers of the Competition Authority. Secondly, the amendment of the revenue sources of the Competition Authority, in particular by eliminating the proceeds of the fines collected by it as a form of financing its activity, providing that its product is returned to the State and the Consumer Rights Promotion Fund, thus preventing any relationship between the inspection activity and the resources appropriate to the mission of the Competition Authority. Thirdly, the Court of Auditors'exclusivity was determined in relation to the financial control and financial responsibility of the Authority, thereby removing the intervention of the Government. Fourthly, the express decision deadlines of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Affairs have been reduced in respect of the approval of the Authority's budget. With regard to the strengthening of research powers and effectiveness in the counter-order procedure, the proposal provides, in particular, with regard to the amendment to the legal system of competition, four substantive amendments: first, the allocation of a set of strengthened powers of investigation and decision-making powers of the Competition Competition Authority, in the counter competition procedure, in particular in matters relating to search and seizure, requests for clarification, requests for clarification, house searches and inquiries and inquiries, application of interim measures, application of interim measures; first, the allocation of four substantive amendments: first, the allocation of a set of powers of enhanced research and research and decision powers of the Authority of the Competition Competition Authority, in particular in matters relating to questions relating to search and seizure and seizure, in particular with regard to questions relating to questions relating to questions relating to questions relating to questions relating to search and effectiveness of research and effectiveness of the Authority's research and effectiveness for the purposes: the strengthening of a set of the powers necessary to access to establishments, facilities, installations which hinder or difficulties in good investigation, in good investigation, including the lack of the lack of the lack of the lack of the lack of the use of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the price, the price, the price, the price, the price, the fourth, the fourth, the proposed, the proposed, the proposed, the price, the fourth, the proposed, the proposed, the proposed, the following, the results of, the amount of, the amount of, as, the amount of, the amount of, the amount of, the amount of, the amount of, the results of, the results of, the results of, as, the amount of, the results of, the results of, the results of, shall, the results of, the value, the results of, the value of, the value, the value of, the, the, the, the operation of, the, the value of, shall, the, the, the, the, the results of, shall, shall, shall, the, the amount of, the amount of, shall, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the results of, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, We therefore believe that this is a key legislative initiative in order to ensure the implementation of an effective legal framework and the promotion of a single competitive, open and fair market. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u257	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. I would also like to congratulate the Minister for Parliamentary Affairs. Mr Bernardo Blanco, of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u258	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: This proposal for transposition of the directive has two serious problems for the Liberal Initiative: the first is that it confers abusive powers and, in our view, unconstitutional powers on the Competition Authority; the second is that, contrary to the spirit of the directive, it withdraws independence from the Competition Authority vis-à-vis the Government. First of all, Article 18. the, concerning the powers of search, examination, collection and seizure, without prior notice, such as access to documentation in any support, raises many doubts of constitutionality in this formulation and does not seem to us that the Competition Authority can go beyond Article 34. the Constitution, concerning the inviolability of the household and correspondence. Even if we are told that, in this case, they are not private but, yes, collective entities, and that, in the face of jurisprudence, this has not been considered unconstitutional, also Article 19. it raises doubts, and this is related to searches in the home of partners, members of administration organs and workers, and therefore private. Still on Article 18. the, I wanted to say that paragraph 2 guarantees that these search powers always need the authorization of the judicial authority, but, as we know, this formulation makes it enough that it is the Public Prosecutor or the investigating judge, something which also does not seem right, and even contrary to other articles of the directive, that specifically require another formulation based on the judges. Secondly, in the proposed law, the Government, in our view—and the opinion of the Competition Authority in paragraph 8 points to the same problem—has reduced the regulator's independence. Article 40. that of the Statutes, which affirmed the principle of independence, goes on to say that the Government cannot direct instructions or recommendations, but can now and I am quoting, "give general strategic rules or priority guidelines to the Competition Authority". So, in our view — and it is not just our view, because the opinion of the Competition Authority goes in the same direction and several academics have said the same thing — with one set of words, the government is thus going to have a form of interference with the Competition Authority. We know that the Prime Minister has already had some problems with the regulators last year, but, in our view, for these two reasons — either because of the rules we consider unconstitutional, or because the Competition Authority is losing independence, which is contrary to the spirit of the directive itself — the proposal, as it is, cannot be adopted. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u259	For an intervention, Mr Jorge Botelho of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u260	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: First of all, we want to say that this is not the first time this diploma is under discussion. In the previous Parliament, we have already examined this issue, with the discussion of Bill No. 99 / XIV / 2. the, and then, due to the abrupt end of the legislature, it was not possible to conclude the debate. The fact is that in the previous Parliament, much work has been done on this subject, in particular the assessment of the question of the constitutionality of Articles 18. is 76. the, which led to a certain formulation on the question of access by the Competition Authority to private electronic communications, which, according to the constitutionalists consulted, did not determine unconstitutionality. But who appreciated this matter in 1. the Commission delivered an opinion which led to that understanding. This proposal, Law No 8 / XV / 1. the, brings an absolute novelty that seems to me to have solved this question. Well it was the government, which was absolutely clear, correcting and accepting the one that was the formulation of 1. the Commission on the question of constitutionality, because what was really at stake was compliance with Article 34 ( 2 ). the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, which basically is access to private communications, which not only communications, books or records of the company itself. We are talking about communications from people, which simply do not appear in the text of the transposition of the directive. It was in this sense that this was analyzed and, in our view, well resolved in terms of conformity with constitutionality. The second question concerns proportionality, in particular Article 236. o, which refers to the extent of the applicable penalty. What we are looking at here is that a limit of up to 10% of the results of the companies or the group of companies, assessed according to what Mr. Secretary of State said, would be the result of the account, or the operational results, of that set of undertakings considered in the international group. What matters here is to quickly transpose the directive. We have already burned the deadline; the Government has been diligent in presenting the proposal in the previous Parliament but we have failed to comply with the deadline and the directive must be transposed because the Portuguese State is obviously in breach and wants to comply with this rule, which is essential for the proper development of the market. We want competition, we want free competition, but with rules. It is therefore important to give powers to the regulators and the Competition Authority, to whom the directive, at European level, gives the power to verify these matters, to have freedom and free competition in the internal market, so that companies, healthy competitors, can exercise their activity with clear but selective rules and rules. It is not good on the internal market — and you will certainly defend this to the limit — that there are rules of competition but then there is no way to check this issue in companies. Also in the transposition of the directive the Government — and well! — calls on the judicial authority to control, in particular, searches, because they depend on prior authorization from the judicial authority. This is not the people of the Competition Authority, workers or others, who suddenly decide, because they have a complaint about competition, make seizures, searches, questions about certain matters, finally, enter companies, and nobody knows anything. No, there are a set of requirements in Article 18. that of the transposition of the directive that says that these procedures, let us say, more voteable and more intrusive in individual freedom, in this case of companies, are electoral by the judicial authority. Another note that I think it is also important to stress is why this monitoring should be carried out in the name of free competition. It is that the revenue resulting from the fines will not fall into the account of an independent authority, with financial, financial and administrative autonomy, to regulate the competition market, which would be their profit as a result of the clearance of the fines being made. No, the revenue will revert to the state.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u261	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u262	Mr President, in conclusion, we want to say that the Government has been pleased to propose the rule again, which has been removed from the question of constitutionality raised in the previous legislation. We believe that we have a good degree, which can be voted on and approved in this Parliament to transpose the directive quickly, complying with the law, fulfilling the constitutionality.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u263	Thank you very much, Mr President. You really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u264	However, in the context of the debate on the speciality at the Commission, we will certainly be available to discuss all the issues. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u265	For an intervention, Mrs Marcia Passos, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u266	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The law coming out of this House will be the expression of what Portugal wants for the coming years, for its businesses, for the market economy and for consumers. How do we want Portuguese companies to position themselves on the national and international market? Do we want competitive companies or do we want to see the market stagnating? Do we want free competition policies or do we want highly restrictive policies? These are the questions to which the new law must answer and are such answers that will determine the future. And the future, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you must have very clear rules. Rules, for example, on abuses of dominant position and on the control of mergers of undertakings, rules on economic freedom but also on equal opportunities, rules on the protection of small and medium-sized enterprises. One of the key pillars of the directive is the independence and autonomy of competition authorities, which means, Mr. Secretary of State, financial autonomy and autonomy of human resources management. However, in this bill we find no evidence of this autonomy. instead, we find, yes, a manifest intention of the government to get involved in the activity of the Competition Authority, issuing guidelines on its activity. And this intromission, Mr Secretary of State, no longer exists in virtually any of the Member States of the European Union. The text that the Government presents to us has these and other incongruities when we compare it with those which are the guidelines of the European Union. One aspect which is worth stressing, and which has already been mentioned here, too, is that which concerns the possible unconstitutionality which was exposed and which appeared as a doubt—at least that! — in the text of the previous bill, which was presented, in relation to the possibility of collection, in the search for information, in any format, physical or digital, in particular e-mail messages, finally, whatever their support. This possibility naturally expressed concern over what is referred to in Article 34. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. Pay attention to the discussion that the text then originated, the Government, this time, decided to amend the wording of the rule. So far very well, very well realized that we were faced with a problem of unconstitutionality. So the intention was good, the result is not even that. He apparently tried to remove the doubts about the constitutionality in the previous text, however, let me say, he did this in a lazy way. lazy and dangerous. And why? Because it removes the reference to correspondence, but it presents an open clause, where everything or almost everything can fit. So if we can now say that the problems and doubts of constitutionality end up being somewhat distant, we continue to have a vague concept, which will only contribute to the increase of disputes between what is and what is not allowed to the Competition Authority. Mr Secretary of State, in his speech, said that the evidence will be all those who are not contrary to the law, but this is not in the bill and, perhaps, if it was then, was resolved. Therefore, in our specialty, we will have the opportunity to think about these contributions. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, once again we have to say that the government is late—and it is true, Mr Jorge Botelho! — the government arrived late and was not diligent in the previous legislation, because when the bill was submitted the deadline for transposition of the directive was long exceeded. Therefore, the government came late and came wrong and did not take the time well spent to improve the text it had presented in the previous legislation. It continues to incur technical inadequacies, contrary to the Union Competition Directive and the Union Competition Law and paying attention to the independence and autonomy of the Competition Authority, i.e. the fundamental pillars of the Directive. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude as I began: the law that will prove to dictate the future of competition policies in Portugal and it is with this responsibility that the PSD will go to the discussion in the specialty. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u267	Mr Filipe Melo, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u268	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs. Members: I regret that Mr Rui Tavares is not in the Chamber, but I take the opportunity and I will say what I think, which is recorded for future memory. Then, Mr. Deputy, if you want to hear, you will soon listen. I remind Mr Rui Tavares and all the others who have this doubt that the Arrival is fortunately the only party on the right in this House today. And when they characterize us as being extreme, I agree: we are of extreme need for this country and for the Portuguese. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I also thank Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, who has brought a very interesting topic for this debate today, speaking of the Super Hero Pantufa, which has solved all the economic, social and financial problems that our country has. Thank you very much, Your Honor! On this subject, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, of course, we agree with this European directive and we agree that it will be transposed, but with rules and with great caution, because the effective implementation of the law and ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market are grounds that it has always been defended. Therefore, it applies, but with all the rule and with all the control. However, I also remind you that for this measure to be effective, much still needs to be changed. Incentives between Member States to tax competitiveness distorts competition, of course, will lead to changes in many of the workplaces of attracted companies — of course! — more advantageous tax countries, and Portugal is not in this lot of tax countries more advantageous. Another relevant aspect: how does the Government want to apply this directive without adequate means of supervision? I would remind you, Mr Secretary of State, that for a measure to be effectively implemented and monitored. Question : with the 1000 inspectors that ASAE (Economic and Food Safety Authority) currently has, how will it monitor? It's 1,000! With inspectors of the Tax Authority cornered to a corner, doing administrative and bureaucratic work, there is no supervision. We are used to this monitoring of the Socialist Party, but this time it will have to be different: if they want to finally adjust this point of debate, they will have to strengthen the supervision. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not enough to transpose directives full of good intentions; it is necessary to provide the country with the necessary means and to fight for the end of aggressive fiscal competition practices at European level that have only led to the final results. I recall very important points for our economy and our society, which, indeed, have to be very well accompanied, in this matter: in telecommunications, in energy and in fuel, makes this applicability all the more meaningful. They hold the big cartels and control these markets in our country, so it makes all the sense. Now, unlike certain banana liberalisms, which want to privatize some companies, including TAP, I remember, Secretary of State, that TAP is essential for us to reach all the Portuguese communities scattered by the four corners of the world, and there, yes, we must be very careful with the adequacy of this regulation, in order not to destroy at once...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u269	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u270	... a company which, yes, must not have competition in the internal market so that it can reach all corners of the world. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u271	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u272	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : We are again discussing a bill in the Assembly of the Republic which aims to change the powers of the competition authorities by introducing the transposition of a European directive. First of all, I would like to point out that, contrary to the proposal we discussed yesterday, in this government introduced some amendments in view of the problems that had been identified in the previous legislation. However, there are doubts that continue to be raised by the technical note and that need to be clarified and resolved. I am now referring to the basic questions concerning this proposal for a law: in the speech of the Secretary of State, reference was made to the open and fair competitive market, to free competition, and competition as the solution at the economic level was exalted. The truth is that there are regulators and there is Competition Authority, but there are still cartels, incomes and abuses of dominant positions. The question that needs to be asked about this'so good free competition' is: what does it fail? It is that, by presenting as a solution the existence of the Competition Authority and regulatory entities, reality shows that they do not regulate anything at all and what we see is the continuation of the privileges of the economic groups, of their monopolies, with increasingly high prices for the citizens. The bill is based on the idea that the strategic sectors of the economy should be in the hands of the private, but, as privatization leads to situations of monopoly, oligopoly or cartel, there is a need to create such competition authorities, which will never be truly independent and impartial and will therefore never be able to prevent the abuse of market power. This is the truth. The reality shows that this neoliberal model of privatization of strategic sectors is a failure and that regulatory entities have proved powerless or even end up captured by the interests of those who should regulate, being accomplices of the regulated ones. And this, ladies and gentlemen. Members, to say that the problem is not in regulation, the problem is in the economic model and in this model where privatization is based. The solution should, in fact, go through the public control of strategic sectors, namely by defending the national interests and interests of our people. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u273	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u274	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Secretary of State : This debate is one more of those who have been waiting for the past legislature, which also shows that the government does not have great reformist will at this early stage. These 100 days have passed, but we are still continuously responding to what was pending from the previous Parliament. We'll have to have new themes, we'll get there, but we just hope it's not four and a half years from now. However, the government learned one part and did not learn another part. Apparently, he learned to overcome a latent unconstitutionality about the permission of the Competition Authority to check and verify correspondence, which was healed in this version, but apparently did not learn about another latent unconstitutionality, that of the application of fines of indefinite value. I think this is something that needs to be resolved in the field of expertise. We have already repeated some of the arguments we used in the debate on this legislative initiative in past legislation and in a broader discussion on competition law, both European and national, and the role of regulatory entities. We know that the Liberal Initiative often tells us that the market works perfectly well, that it is perfect, that it is great in the distribution of needs and in the response to wills, that is, it is always the ideal solution, and, if anything goes wrong, there will be a regulatory entity. It is true that they also say that there is an invisible hand in the market that allows some of the deviations to be matched and corrected. What we see in European competition law is that there is, in fact, an invisible hand that always works against Portugal, but on that the Liberal Initiative says nothing, even slaps. When, for example, the European Commission says that Portugal has an air transport company, TAP, which follows a draconian plan which reads the company, reads the public accounts, makes its future more ineffective, but which does so with the will to put it in order, the Liberal Initiative beats hands and says « it is the functioning market ». Interestingly, the European Commission itself, when French or German companies, has absolutely different criteria. So it's strong for some, for Portugal, it's weak for others. And the Liberal Initiative stands up for European interests, such as the interests of Germany or France, but Portugal has a TAP and wants to cut its wings. The same has happened in the past and we have not heard the Liberal Initiative, we have not heard the PSD and we have not heard the PS — we have not heard the PS! - say nothing. We have seen this film: public money, money from each and every one of us that could serve to pay hospitals, better health services, better public school, to be spoiled. Why did that happen? They will say: it was the financial crisis, then came the troika, the rescue of banks that the right liked to save. And this European competition law, which forced the bank to split up such as Banif ( Banco Internacional do Funchal ), more than EUR 2000 million of Portuguese money. In the name of what? free competition. For what? So that Santander could buy a bank at the price of a voucher any that the European Commission gave to buy it. This is European law.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u275	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u276	From that point of view — and I end with this sentence, Madam President — we do not put all the eggs in this basket because we know what is harmful to the national interest. We hope that the transposition of the directive will be able to respond to the legitimate hopes that the Competition Authority has put, in particular, the limitations that it says the government is putting into effect by its free will. In the field of expertise, we will see if we have that capacity. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u277	To conclude this debate, Mr. Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, João Neves.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u278	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to thank the comments and contributions to this which is a very important debate on a reform which is also essential and which aims to ensure that the Competition Authority has independence and capacity to act, promoting the internal market and conditions of equality for companies and institutions within its activities. Competition is one of the essential factors of the country's economic development capacity and it is therefore very important that this bill is active from the point of view of the State's capacity and that the institutions respond to the challenges of an internal market which is highly competitive. The activity of competition authorities is essential to ensure balanced and sustained market access for companies, while ensuring that consumers have confidence in the means that exist to defend their legitimate aspirations. I would like to reassure the banks of the extent of impartiality of the Competition Authority's action vis-à-vis the Government. These aspects which are provided for in the bill and which I referred to in the initial intervention are absolutely critical. The Government may not act by providing guidance to the Competition Authority on procedural matters and the full independence of the Authority must be guaranteed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly, I reassure the different banks on the issues associated with the constitutional aspects of the proposal, in particular on the admissibility of the evidence which is absolutely critical for the national effort to have an adjusted competitive intervention to be carried out. Article 31 ( 2 ). the expressly states that all evidence which is not prohibited by law is admissible. It is therefore clear that what has been said by Mrs Marcia Passos is explicitly stated in Article 31. The proposal of the law. It follows, moreover, the recommendation to draft the proposal for a directive. On Article 18. I would like to point out that what is contained in the bill is explicitly what is contained in the articulation of the directive. We are therefore in a position to ensure that, from this point of view, what the bill refers to is absolutely in accordance with the existing directive.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u279	I request you to conclude, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u280	Finally, to conclude, I would like to say that, of course, this proposal is complex and the debate in the specialty can certainly lead to the improvements that are necessary, on the basis of a bill which itself defends the Competition Authority and its independence. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u281	We have concluded this item on the agenda and I approve on behalf of the Bureau, the Minister and the Secretary of State. We turn to the third item on our agenda, the general discussion of the Bill No 106 / XIV / 2. a ( ALRAA ) — First amendment to Decree-Law No 70 / 2020 of 16 September, which updates the age of access to pensions and eliminates the sustainability factor in early retirement schemes under the general social security scheme. For an intervention, Mrs Ana Paula Bernardo of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u282	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The initiative under consideration today calls us to a matter which is very important to the PS and which has been, over the years, one of the indelible and distinctive marks of the action of the socialist governments, the improvement of social protection for all and the protection of the sustainability of social security. It was a socialist government that, in 2006 and 2007, with the social partners, promoted social security reform in response to demographic and long-term sustainability challenges. It was, in fact, the most ambitious reform of social security and a determining element for a necessary intergenerational balance and for the strengthening of confidence in the system. The introduction of the sustainability factor and its articulation with the evolution of life expectancy was one of the central measures of that reform and the touchstone whose echoes, even though by other distortions, still make themselves felt today. I recall here that it was a PSD/CDS government that took on that sustainability factor and made it unjustifiably worse, transforming it into an instrument at the service of spending reduction, through the cut-off of pensions and strong penalties for workers. This amendment created constraints and impediments to early access to reform by thousands of pensioners and in many cases denied the right to a decent reform. And it is again a socialist government that has since 2015 been seeking to correct these ideological drifts and attacks on pensioners, in a work that has been done gradually but sustainably, in a work that has been started and that has to be continued in social consultation, but with already clear results for the Portuguese. We see the elimination of the sustainability factor for the long and very long contributing careers, but also the end of the sustainability factor for fast wear professions, particularly for workers fired from the Lajes Base, which is at stake within the scope of the diploma we are appreciating. But socialist action did not interfere with the sustainability factor and the correction of past errors. over these years, the government has not ceased to respond continuously to other groups, from then on to pensioners in general, with the regular updating of pensions since 2016 and from 2017, with the extraordinary increase of pensions for the most vulnerable pensioners. In 2022, the extraordinary update was once again a reality that covered more pensioners, with payments from January this year, despite the lead of the State Budget at the end of 2021. It also responded to the Government with important policies and measures in terms of support for children and of combating child poverty, through strengthening the family allowance, the Guarantee package for Children, the free of charge of day care centres, updates in terms of RSI (social income of insertion), the solidarity supplement for the elderly and other benefits. We know that there is a way to do and that there are improvements to be made to preserve and strengthen the values of justice and equity, to value social protection and income, but we will always do so with the balance and sustainability of social security accounts, first and foremost, and public accounts, in general. The Socialist Party and the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group have been, and will continue to be, attentive to the reality of the country and to the needs and expectations of people, without fear of introducing the necessary improvements and improvements. Do not count on the Socialist Party to fall into the temptation of other governments, using social security numbers to respond to timely and merely conjunctural problems with long-term impact solutions. We will always be present but with structural responses to the fundamental problems and specific solutions to the specific problems and to the topical problems. This attitude and openness are very visible in the intervention of the Socialist Government in relation to the elimination of the sustainability factor in these rapidly worn-out professions and this is unequivocally a heritage associated with the Socialist Party. We will keep ourselves on the path that we have come to, which has been suffocated and deserved the agreement of the Portuguese. We will continue to fulfil our commitments, acting in a determined but prudent manner, so that the progress of recent years of socialist governance will never be called into question, ensuring conditions so that there is no backwardness, and we will never go through any path or shortcut that can open gaps or even mere pretexts for possible pension cuts in the future, if another government with different options from those of the Socialist Party in the matter of public social security, universal and that all will protect, if they want to take advantage. The PS will continue to be available to support and defend measures that compete for the objectives of better social protection and better living conditions for all, doing so as always did, in a responsible manner, within the framework of an increasingly fair system and with the current sustainability of social security. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u283	For an intervention, Mr Rui Rocha, of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u284	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We understand that it is not possible to evaluate these types of proposals without taking into account the more general picture of social security and its sustainability today. And we take good note of what has been said, for example, in the Budget Report, in which we find that, from 2030 onwards, a negative balance of the system is planned, which will remain over the decades following the 1930s of this century. It is also planned that the Stabilisation Fund for Social Security will be used to supply, from 2030 onwards, the system's insufficient funding, which means that from then on the current social security needs will become ensured by the Stabilisation Fund for Social Security until its exhaustion. Obviously, we are talking about issues that will happen in 2040 or 2050 — it seems a long way off! — but we have a responsibility in this House which concerns not only those who are currently benefiting from their retirement pensions, but also those who are currently in the labour market and those who are entering the labour market — those who are 40 years old, who are 20, 25, 30, who know, 35 years of active life ahead. If we do not take measures to counter this exhaustion of social security in the model we know today, we will also be responsible in this House for arriving at a time when there will be no resources from the country to pay pensions. On the other hand, even those who will reach the retirement age in the coming days, if they have done the simple exercise of simulating the pension they will be entitled to at the time they are scheduled to move to reform, they will probably have an unpleasant surprise, seeing that what is a career of work may not have the compensation in terms of pension they expect, it will probably be well below the expectations of these people. Therefore, regardless of the greater or lesser justice of the claims presented with initiatives such as the one we are debating today, our more general position is that it is necessary — and it is even a democratic obligation — to look at the social security system and admit the possibility of strengthening this system with alternatives that must pass through a principle of capitalization. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u285	I ask the House to create the conditions so that the speakers can be heard in good condition. Mr Diana Ferreira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u286	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by saying that on the part of the CFP we are following this legislative proposal, which was adopted unanimously in the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores. We have also presented, at the head of State Budget, on the part of the CFP, a proposal that goes exactly in the same direction of this initiative, understanding that situations such as those of the former officials of the U.S. Lages base, on the Third Island, are of great injustice and very penalizing and that the full replacement of pensions, through the elimination of the sustainability factor in cases of anticipation of the age pension of these workers, represents a measure that partially repaires one of the consequences of an injustice committed on all those who have discounted an entire working life. The PS was the only party that voted against this proposal. It was now important, even considering the intervention of the Member of the Socialist Party, that the PS effectively approve this proposal, as it did at the Legislative Assembly of the Azores. And it was also important that the Socialist Party should not apologize for not implementing it quickly, until it had the opportunity, at the state budget, to anticipate the situation we are discussing today, and could approve proposals which were put forward, in particular by the CFP. But it is also important here to remember, with regard to this debate, that the sustainability factor was effectively introduced by the hands of a Government of the Socialist Party in 2007, thus promoting the reduction of the value of pensions based on the average life expectancy, something which was subsequently aggravated by the hands of PSD and CDS, which introduced new penalties in reforms and pensions. The average life expectancy, Mr. Members, and its increase over several years is a civilizational conquest. It is inseparable from important advances in medicine and science and also, in our country, from the existence of the National Health Service. This average life expectancy cannot serve as a pretext for limiting and amputating rights, as is done with the sustainability factor, which, in fact, represents a cut in pensions above 14% this year. from the PCP side, we always rejected the application of the sustainability factor in any circumstance and presented several proposals for its elimination. It was also possible to ensure, on a proposal from the CFP, the elimination of the sustainability factor for workers of the pier and the lavaries of the mines, which, in fact, from the moment they had the special regime of access to the reform, should never even have a sustainability factor that would apply to them penalties in the reform.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u287	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u288	But we have tabled far more proposals to eliminate this cut in pensions and, Mrs Deputies, on sustainability, what the strengthening of social security requires is the fight against unemployment and precariousness, it is the general value of wages and its significant increase, it is the creation of employment with rights, it is the fight against fraud and tax evasion, as well as...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u289	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u290	... the misuse of social security money, in particular the contribution regime, for purposes other than its purposes, and the expansion of its sources of financing, placing the wealth produced in our country effectively contributing to social security. It has been this path that the PCP has defended and has also been this path that the PS has rejected. [[PCP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u291	Mr Jorge Galveias, from the party, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u292	Ex. Mr. President, Ex. Mr. and Mr. Members: I begin by welcoming the PSD for the election of its new leader. We are called today to discuss this bill, which was presented by the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores. My first words are a greeting to the honourable Members. Members of the Regional Assembly of the Azores and the people of the Azores. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the presentation, discussion and vote of this proposal today in this House cannot be left for that very reason. This proposal should serve as a lever for a real discussion on the sustainability of social security, a discussion where there can be no room for ideologies that look at the person as an object, putting profit at the centre of the discussion, not the human person. Currently, we live the period of history of Portugal where the tax burden on workers, businesses and families is the highest ever. Never has a government held such a heavy hand on the Portuguese people as the Governments of Antonio Costa and its management. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u293	Workers cannot continue to pay taxes and social security and live in the uncertainty of whether, when they reach the retirement age, the Portuguese State has money to pay for just reform, after a working life.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u294	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u295	The taxes in Portugal cannot continue to serve only to pay for the fats of this socialist state and for the million-dollar pensions of politicians. The money from our taxes is from the people and must be spent with responsibility and respect. This majority does not like to do, but it should be remembered that the cutting of pensions introduced in 2008 was not done by the hand of Pedro Passos Coelho, nor by Aníbal Cavaco Silva. This pension court was made by the Prime Minister of the Socialist Party José Socrates and his Minister of Social Security Vieira da Silva, a government that also counted on the presence of Antonio Costa, current Prime Minister of Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the time has come to have the right accounts.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u296	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u297	But the right accounts, for us, cannot continue to be paid by the same ones as ever, reformed, workers, families and businesses. The solution of the Regional Legislative Assembly is to include, within the scope of Decree-Law No 70 / 2020, the pension requirements delivered from 1 January 2015, with the concern of protracting the effects of the recalculation of the pension for the entry into force of the 2022 budget. We understand this norm, it is justified by the existence of the labour law, but we will have to correct for the date of entry into force of the 2023 budget, under the penalty of violating the same labour law. There is no legal or moral basis that can be invoked to criticise this solution, since it is only about abolishing the sustainability factor in the required pensions and allowing the recalculation of old pensions, a fair and timely claim. Therefore, the Arrival will vote in favour of this initiative of the Regional Legislative Assembly of the Azores. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u298	We are approaching the time of the vote. I request the services which open the quorum verification period. Mr José Moura Soeiro, from the Left Block, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u299	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is not the first time in this Parliament we have discussed the sustainability factor, but I want to start by stressing a feature of this proposal that we are discussing today. It was adopted by consensus, i.e. all the parties voted in favour of it in the Azorian Parliament. And what does the proposal say? It's very simple, it's intuitive, it's fair, it's basic sense: it doesn't make sense to apply a cut to people who have retired before the general retirement age, not by decision itself, but because the law provides for a special regime for their profession. This is the case of miners, stoners and dancers, for rapid wear, is the case of air traffic controllers, because of the nature of the profession, it is the case of workers at the Lajes Base, by international agreement and because their posts have been extinguished. They didn't want to retire before time. In fact, the said cutback, or sustainability factor, did not always exist, was created only in 2007, only applied to special schemes in 2014 and currently does not apply to almost any of the pensions that are required. It has no relevance to the sustainability of the system because it, because of the demographic factor, is guaranteed by the mobile age of the reform and by the reductions associated with it, it is not due to this double meaningless penalty. This Parliament — I insist on this — has already put an end to the application of the sustainability factor for almost all situations. It was, in fact, a matter of agreement between the Left Block and the Socialist Party in 2017, 2018 and 2019 and in 2020 we ended with the sustainability cut for the special retirement age anticipation regimes and even provided for in the law, when we ended with that court, that this cancellation would have a retroactive effect for those who had required the reform from 1 January 2019. Now, the situation that the Azorian Parliament has raised in this Parliament — and that the Left Block has already raised countless times, even two weeks ago, in the votes of the State Budget — is this injustice: who is now reformed under these regimes has no cut; who has been reformed since January 2019 has not had a cut; who has reformed before 2014 has not cut, but there are some members, who have had the chance to retire between 2014 and 2018, who take a slice for the rest of their lives. This is unfair, unacceptable, discriminatory and very easy to correct, because this precedent has already been opened by this Parliament and has a residual budgetary impact.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u300	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u301	What did the PS government say about this injustice when we proposed to heal it? I quote the Secretary of State Gabriel Bastos: « A completely radical and unsustainable approach to social security. » They may contain laughter, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. And what does Rodolfo Franca, Member of the Socialist Party say about the same proposal? « The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, of course, considers that there is great discrimination for workers here. That is why the PS Parliamentary Group accompanies the proposal of the Left Block. Do not keep on seeking. ” What does the Secretary of State of the Government of the Socialist Party say? “We will land all the confidence that exists in the public system. Do not keep on seeking. ” What does Mrs Ana Luís of the Socialist Party say in the PS-Azores version? « Indeed, the proposal of the Left Block, for the Socialist Party, is fair. in this sense, I reiterate what my colleague Rodolfo Franca has already said: we will, of course, approve the initiative of the Left Block. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u302	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u303	I conclude, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, that the Socialist Party has two sides in this matter is unquestionable. The question we ask him is why, here, they use this guy. Use the other one and approve the proposal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u304	Mr Nuno Carvalho, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u305	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is important to note that, when we address this matter, we are also addressing the future of all those who are entitled to reform. Here, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is something that is factual: those who were born in the 1940s will have a larger reform than those who were born in the 1960s, and so on. Therefore, if we consider that we can address this issue without impacting other people who also have the right to their reform we will be completely demagogic, we will be completely irresponsible and we will be affecting a fundamental principle of intergenerational solidarity. In fact, I would say more, of intergenerational justice. Therefore, it is obvious that this is a matter that has to be addressed, because we have to find a form of this sustainability to occur.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u306	But you voted in favour!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u307	We must not find more problems or raise more questions without knowing how the sustainability of the reform is guaranteed. There is an interesting question here, put by the honourable Members. Members of the PCP and the Left Block. First, Mr Bloc de Left believes that the votes that have been expressed in the Azores should be reflected in all the votes of this bench. Next, the Member of the Communist Party considers that there is also a responsibility for the PSD here. I begin by giving a note to the Member of the Communist Party, which is very factual: in the last six years, you have governed the country more than the PSD and should therefore have dealt with the issues they consider to be priority. [[PCP laughter.]] The burden of governance, over the past six years, is much more of the PCP than, of course, the PSD. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I think you should be aware of the fact that the management — the designation of your agreement — and that you should be directed towards the one who was your former coalition partner, the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u308	Be serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u309	With regard to the question of the Left Block Member, who considers that everything must be poured here, it is the best way to create confusion. In fact, what was initially addressed in the Azores — which had also another alternative proposal — was something that can be looked at exceptionally, being related to employment contracts under international agreements and, very specifically, even on the issue of the Lajes Base.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u310	But is this an exception? Ignorance! He's running away from the debate!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u311	That, yes, is a matter that should be looked at differently and should have adequate treatment. Trying to mix everything and say that what came from the debate of the Legislative Assembly of the Azores is exactly the same thing that should be reflected here is the best way not to respect the exceptionality of what was discussed, is the best way to say that there should be no exception to this matter, is the best way to disrespect the Azores. Mr President, I should like to pay a little attention because, in fact, there are regions that deserve exceptions. But I have already realized that, for you, if you can overcome all the barriers, you can forget that in the future people will receive less in the reforms, that perhaps there are people who will not have any reforms, since today you can promise something that will allow you to count on a vote on the Left Block. Mr. Deputies, they have already been unmasked. at this moment, you are five and, perhaps, in the future, may be even less. Mrs. Members of the Communist Party have also been exposed. But I am going to tell you one thing: if you don't focus on your opponent in this matter, which is the Socialist Party, and start doing politics in a more serious way, you, any day, will feel the true embrace of bear. In fact, there is a matter of responsibility here that needs to be dealt with and the government must be able to address this problem seriously. It is that there is no guarantee for future reforms, there is no guarantee for people who were born in the 1970s, 80s or 90s who will receive reforms of values as high as those before.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u312	You still have one more minute to roll!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u313	But is this the best you have to give us?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u314	That, in fact, should be of concern to the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, how, perhaps, in the future, you won't be sitting here anymore, you're not worried, are you? They want to make sure they're sitting here now. They should act on this subject with responsibility, because confusing garlic with bugs is not the best way to deal with such a serious issue. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u315	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech, the last of this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u316	Mr President, dear colleagues, I confess that, with the latest information on the future of social security, I had to return to the text sent to us by the Regional Legislative Assembly of the Azores — which, in fact, was voted by the PSD-Azores — to see whether the articulate referred to the future or the past. And not only does it refer to the past as a rather narrow window of the past. We can say that, in a way, this puts the accounts of social security at stake, but, Dear Members, we cannot build a future of social security that is sustainable and, above all, right on top of injustices committed in the past. The truth is that there is here a temporary hole, an exception that harms workers and that in the Azores was recognized because of the specific case of the Lajes Base, but also harms everyone who happened to reform at that time. Above all, in many cases such as at the Lajes Base, against their will, because the workers at the Lajes Base, under pressure from two states, their own and that of the United States of America, have retired in advance to save jobs from their colleagues. However, they fall into a temporary hole between 2015 and 2020 in which the cut applies when other workers under the same conditions it does not apply.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u317	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u318	I conclude, Mr. President. when we vote in favour of this proposal by the Regional Assembly of the Azores, what we are doing is correcting an injustice, and no future of social security can be built on injustice.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u319	In the meantime, Mr Nuno Carvalho of the PSD was registered. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u320	Mr President, I would just like to give the honourable Member a very brief note: in this country we have seen the creation of so many and so many exceptions without considering who is outside that we then suddenly took the troika. The honourable Member has been an excellent student of the Socialist Party, let me say, and has been pleased with this, but perhaps he should have received the lesson before, because we are talking about the future of the people and the future of the reforms of these people, which is also paid with our contributions now, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u321	You're going to say that in the Azores!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u322	This is an intergenerational connection. Mr President, we have to be a little serious about this, because we should not forget that exceptions behind exceptions led to the troika being here and then to the country having to recover from the troika.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u323	Teach us to be serious there, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u324	If you want to be serious about this, you know perfectly well that one thing cannot be turned off from the other. Exceptions in this case have an impact on the future and, therefore, I would suggest that it be again to speak to the Socialist Party for greater coordination, as has happened so far. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u325	We shall then proceed to the vote. I ask the services to close the quorum check and advertise its result. [[Pause.]] We have quorum, with 207 gentlemen present. Members, we shall therefore proceed to the vote on the Bill No 106 / XIV / 2. a ( ALRAA ) — First amendment to Decree-Law No 70 / 2020 of 16 September, which updates the age of access to pensions and eliminates the sustainability factor in early retirement schemes under the general social security scheme. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, votes against the CH, the PCP, the BE, the PAN, the L, of 4 PS (Francisco César, João Castro, Nelson Brito and Sérgio Ávila) and 5 PSD (Francisco Pimentel, Patrícia Dantas, Paulo Moniz, Sara Madruga da Costa and Sergio Marques) and the abstention of the IL.]] Mr Carlos Pereira, for what effect do you ask for the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u326	Mr President, it is to inform that, on my behalf and the PS Members who have been elected by PS Madeira, I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u327	The Secretary of the Bureau now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u328	Mr President, I am announcing the ladies and gentlemen. Members who attended the work by videoconferencing, due to being in prophylactic isolation: Alexandre Quintanilha, Clarisse Campos, Cláudia Santos, Hugo Costa, Pedro Cegonho, Rui Lage, Sofia Andrade and Susana Amador, PS, Duarte Pacheco, Germana Rocha and Isaura Morais, PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u329	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. Reading the file is now followed.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u330	Mr. President and Mr. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, Resolution Projects Nos 72 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 74 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which drops to 8. the Commission, and 76 / XV / 1. a ( PAR). I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-02.u331	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. The next plenary session will be tomorrow, Friday, with the establishment of the agenda required by the PSD, which is generally assessed and voted on by Bills Nos 70 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Second amendment to Law No 32 / 2008 of 17 July transposing to the domestic legal order Directive No 2006 / 24 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 March on the preservation of data generated or processed in the context of the provision of publicly available electronic communications services or public communications networks, in accordance with the Constitutional Court judgment No 268 / 2022, 79 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Amend Law No 32 / 2008 of 17 July in order to harmonize it with the constitutional requirements in force and 100 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Change Law No. 32 / 2008 of 17 July on data conservation generated or processed in the context of the provision of electronic communications services and the Bill Proposal No. 11 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Regulates access to metadata relating to electronic communications for criminal investigation purposes. Follow-CL will be -the 1. the Supplementary Budget of the Assembly of the Republic, after which we will have the votes due Thank you very much and until tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 6 minutes.]]
