ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We have quorum, with all parliamentary groups present, and I therefore declare open the sitting. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the galleries to the public. Before I give the floor to the Secretary of Bureau Palmira Maciel to read the file, I would like to draw the attention of the ladies and gentlemen. Members for whom we have to vote on an opinion on the replacement of a Member of Parliament. Please, Mrs Palmira Maciel.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members issued the following opinion: « The suspension of the mandate of Mrs Patrícia Dantas ( PSD ) fulfils the legal requirements, being replaced by João Dinis Santos Ramos, with effect on 6 June, limiting itself to the day indicated, ending at the end of the same day. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on this opinion. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the NAP was recorded.]] Mrs Palmira Maciel, please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u4	Mr. President and Mr. Members, I begin by referring to the withdrawal of draft resolution No 5 / XV / 1. a ( L) and draft Law No 29 / XV / 1. a (IL) by their proposers. I am now announcing a number of legislative initiatives that have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President. First of all, I refer to Bill No. 100 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which drops to 1. the Commission. Lein.o 9 / XV / 1. a ( ALRAM ), which falls to 6. the Commission, and 11 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), 12 / XV / 1 a ( GOV ) and 14 / XV / 1. a ( ALRAM ), which fall to 1. the Commission. Draft Rules of Procedure Nos 5 / XV / 1 were also included in the Bureau. a ( IL) and 6 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), down to 1. the Commission. Finally, I refer to Resolution Projects No. 66 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 67 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 13. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission, and 68 / XV / 1. a ( CH), 69 / XV / 1. a ( BE) and 70 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), down to 6. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u5	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us begin our agenda, the first of which is the urgent debate required by the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, with the theme 'The guarantee of rights and freedoms in the reception and integration of Ukrainian refugees'. To begin the debate, Mr Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u6	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Ladies and gentlemen, Minister and other members of the government: What brings us here today is something that should have happened, but it has not happened, because the House has decided so. This event also occurs with the presence of another significant fact: the absence of Mr. Prime Minister of this debate. The absence of Mr. Prime Minister two months ago, the absence of Mr. Prime Minister one month ago and the absence of Mr. Prime Minister this afternoon in this House. The absence of Mr. Prime Minister when he was called to the committee for clarification, the absence of Mr. Prime Minister with the excuse that he could not be heard in committee and the absence of Mr. Prime Minister today, not in a committee, but in the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u8	Since the beginning of this issue, either it was in Europe, or outside Europe, or outside the government, or within the government, or outside Saint Benedict, or within Saint Benedict. The Prime Minister systematically refused to answer the questions directly involved by this Government in the subject of the reception of Ukrainian refugees in Portugal. Since the beginning that António Costa has sought to hide in the President of the Republic, in this Assembly of the Republic, in the secret services, in the municipal chamber or in any other entity to escape the obvious: the responsibility of the Government in this matter. Associations were heard and interest groups were heard. They all agreed on one fact: for more than 10 years the Ukrainian associations reported that in Portugal these refugees would be being welcomed by pro-Russians and for a few years these associations were making Russian propaganda in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u9	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u10	We financed these associations with public money, and many of them directly linked to the Russian regime have direct funding from the Portuguese State. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] The Association of Eastern Immigrants and the Centre for Support to the Emigrant Population of Eastern Europe and Friends are examples, which I would like to give, of support to Ukrainians who are the arms of Vladimir Putin and the Russian regime in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u11	Exactly! [[Protests by PS Member Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u12	All possible to be said, if it was not so serious that the Portuguese State had financed it, that municipal chambers had financed it, with money from the taxpayers, without any scrutiny. This Parliament heard the secret services after this controversy, and the information circulated — and I use the word 'circluded' for a reason, for an expression I shall quote. This was said to us: "The information that had to be circulated circulated to those who were entitled to do so. Who rightfully had this information. We all know who is « lawmakers » : it is the man who is missing here today in the bench under this rostrum, it is Mr Prime Minister of Portugal. It is he who knows and who should explain the case to me. But no! [[Congrats from the CH.]] What did Antonio Costa know about this Russian activity in Portugal? What did Antonio Costa know about the presence of these associations, financed with public money, in Portugal? What did the government know about these associations and their activities? The Socialist Party vetoed the coming of the President of the House of Setúbal to Parliament, and vetoed it for one reason: when it comes to authorities, there are bodies for its supervision. It is curious that the Socialist Party itself has agreed to call Parliament Fernando Medina to talk about data sharing with Russia when it came to demonstrations in front of the embassy. It's a criterion for one thing, another criterion for another.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u14	My friends, there is only one doubt here: how much is it that Prime Minister Antonio Costa is involved in this issue and he knows what was going on with these associations in Portugal? This is the only doubt that remains. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr President, while I remain for the presentation of this debate, let me point out two important elements which a House like this should not be unaware of: the allocation of €90 000 in grants to associations clearly linked to the Russian regime and which were indicated by us and the fact that the associations have reported that since 2011 the government has received complaints about what was happening, so it knew what was going on. What were the secret services doing and what was the government doing with the information given to them by the secret services? This is what the government has to answer. This urgent debate was marked for one reason, the reason why the PS tried to run away from the poll for months and months after the controversy broke out. We note, even with some irony, that parties who wanted so much scrutiny now will abstain or vote against this same ballot.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u16	The complaint is clear: Ukrainian associations say that there is Russian espionage activity in Portugal, made up of multicultural associations that are also being paid with our taxes. In a period of war in Europe, how can a socialist Prime Minister avoid research into this subject until the latest consequences? Mr President, I will conclude this first intervention by saying the following: today, in the next item on the agenda, a proposal for the establishment of an inquiry committee in this case, an inquiry committee for Parliament to play its role, not to replace the Public Prosecutor's Office or the Judicial Police, an inquiry committee to investigate what the government knew, what it did not say to this House and what it could have said,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u17	That's the next point! It's to discuss later!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u18	... an idea that was not initially ours, but of the new elected President of the Social Democratic Party. It is very curious to see how it changes from position to position at every moment in which it is spoken.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u20	Today we heard that PS and PSD will not, voting against and abstaining, a committee of inquiry which, a month ago, the victorious candidate of the PSD had said that he would approve here in Parliament. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u21	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u22	I shall conclude by leaving this to Parliament's conscience: even if you refuse to debate and investigate this issue today, you will not let yourself remain and you will propose the establishment of a committee of inquiry to this case by exercising a legislative right, so that PS and PSD cannot escape this issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u23	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u24	The Portuguese want to investigate this, the country wants to investigate this, Parliament has a duty to investigate this. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u25	The Bureau recorded the inscriptions of two Mrs. Members to make requests for clarification to Mr André Ventura, who can use time for the debate to respond to them. The first request for clarification is from Mr Bernardo Blanco, the Liberal Initiative. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u26	Mr President, Mr Ventura, before the next debate on which we share several of the concerns you mentioned in the rostrum, I have to ask you to clarify what party you come here today to talk about the situation in Ukraine : is it the Arrival that, in the House, sometimes defends the Ukrainians and is next to them or is it the Arrival that, in the social networks and in the municipal assemblies of the country, has been constantly alongside the Russian regime? [[PS laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u27	What? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u28	Mr Deputy denounced, and well, a few weeks ago, that there are parties that, and I quote, « are unable to condemn this barbarous territorial invasion of Russia and continue to say that we should leave NATO » ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ). He then said: "It would be very nice to defend ourselves with poems, words and roses in hand, but that's not how Vladimir Putin's regime understands. Do not keep on seeking. ” We agree with you, Mr. Deputies. As for this, we have nothing to disagree with. And, precisely because we agree, I would like to ask you what you think of the words of National Counsellor No. 1 of the Arrival, when you said: "If I could speak to the President of Ukraine, I would ask him to meet Putin and understand what he wants"; Zelenskyy "is prolonging the agony of his people" and "has a moral and historical obligation to stop fighting". Mr President, this seems to me to me to be the roses and poems he was talking about, and it seems to me to be quite pro-Russian and contrary to what Mr has done. Secondly, one of the Vice-Presidents of the Arrival, in a shared text, blames Zelenskyy for the "irreflective, idiotic and dangerous decisions that led to the war" and adds that Putin « now understood whether to try to reverse the situation or at least prevent it from getting worse». Mr President, this seems to me - a Member of the CFP speaking - to be the speech they have made here - and it seems to me to be quite a pro-Russian speech, contrary to what Mr has done, and well. Thirdly, several of your municipal Members have shown themselves against the reception of refugees... [[CH protests.]] Can I go on? I said that several of your municipal Members have shown themselves to be opposed to the reception of refugees, one of your municipal Members classified war as the 'armed conflict that has been provoked and fueled by NATO and the European Union' — and I would like you to tell me if this is the position of the Arrival's — further referring to the 'Zelenski ghost and the genocidal government to which he presides' and that 'Putin is just doing what is right and what needs to be done'. Mr President, this seems to me to be a rather pro-Russian speech, of which we totally disagree, contrary to what you have said here and, therefore, before we start the debate, I needed to know what the official position of the party is, whether it is yours or whether it is the one that the party, through the other leaders, has demonstrated. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u29	Also to ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present, Mr André Ventura, we believe that this is a debate of the greatest seriousness and that this House lacks further insight into the integration of all refugees and not just of Ukrainian refugees. That is why, in some way, we cannot help but be amazed at a debate which, in our view, seems to be a little serious. I recall that in your election programme, you are advocating something like "to prevent the danger of the demographic replacement of Portuguese" by the coming of foreign immigrants to our country and your party argue that citizens from Nepal or Bangladesh should not, for example. More: we also have a terrible drama and a humanitarian crisis, which even culminates in the death of people and children in the Mediterranean Sea. in this sense, we would like to know the answer to the question that has also been asked by Mr Liberal Initiative, that is, with which we arrive we are speaking today, but, above all, the debate on the integration of refugees cannot be done to the detriment of one's rights for another, must indeed be done for all refugees. So I'm asking if you guys are. Members will argue that the integration that Portugal is now doing should or should not be extended to thousands of refugees, such as those in the camps of Moria, Greece, or to the children who are currently dying at war in other contexts by the globe, or if we are going to continue to have a discriminatory policy on the part of All refugees.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u31	To reply, Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u32	Mr President, I would like to thank the requests for clarification, especially those which PSD and PS carried out in this debate, which were very interesting, in the agreement they made so that the arrival could not speak. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's laughs.]] We thank this agreement and, in fact, the PS also thanks you for the way in which you have made approach to the Socialist Party and who have reported it. [[Congrats from the CH.]] My friends, they're charting your own way. Then do not say that it is disaggregation on the right and on the left, blame yourselves for standing next to the Socialist Party. Mr. Bernardo Blanco, the arrival has never had any doubts about the way he went here. The honourable Member was not yet here, but since the first day this House gathered that the coming was very clear in defending what Ukraine was, in defending nationalism and the identity that you so often destroy, because they are globalists around a globe that they want to destroy, and we have always been on the side of national identity. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Have no doubt, sir! And also he never doubted NATO. It is that, unlike your candidate for Prime Minister, who was silent about this during the legislative elections, I confronted PCP and the Left Block about the program they had, in which they wanted to leave NATO. But I understand, Mr. Member, that you bring here positions of autoarchs from the Arrival, because you, in fact, have so few autoarchs that I understand that they look and say so: "In fact, the IL has only two autoarchs! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Congrats from the CH.]] So, I understand, Mr. Deputies! It is only that, Mr. honourable Member, you have hundreds of autoarchs and, therefore, I understand that you are going to look for one case or another of someone who thinks differently. We are not like the Liberal Initiative, which has four or five autoarchs, we have hundreds in the whole country. After that, the honourable Member was looking for examples of several militants. Let me also tell you this: we know that the Liberal Initiative has 1000 or 2000 militants, which is not the same as the 40 000 Members of the European Parliament. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Therefore, there are several opinions and positions about this—I apologize about this situation. For some reason you are the fourth and not the third largest party in the country. The third is Enough. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, in fact we have many points in common about one thing: the defense of Ukraine is fundamental, it is fundamental for the future of Europe, and from the very first moment that the arrival has assumed this prerogative: to defend freedom at the moment is to defend Ukraine. Now, she is doing very bad service to Ukraine and is doing very bad service to Europe when she compares Ukrainian refugees with what we have seen in the rest of the world. [[Congrats from the CH.]] If you ask us whether we agree that the population of Europe is replaced by a population coming from the Maghreb or the Middle East, I will say no, we are not. And the honourable Member should not want it either, because they want the honourable Member to come to this chamber without being able to speak. It's the opposite of what we want! [[Congrats from the CH.]] That's the difference! That is the difference, Mrs Deputies, and, therefore, we do not want immigrants here who want women to be objects, who want women to come from a hole in Parliament and who think that our Western values are values to put in the trash, values that have taken a long time to conquer and if we have to fight for them, we will fight. I know the honourable Member doesn't fit well with what the West is, but we're here to defend him. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[NAP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u33	Mr Bernardo Blanco, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u34	Mr President, we already know that Mr. André Ventura has here a complex with the metric tape, but that remains for you. [[CH protests.]] [[PS Members' laughs.]] I just wanted to say, as far as the authorships are concerned, that we also have almost a hundred, and that the honourable Member has made it clear that either of his vice-presidents or the national councillor No 1 are merely militants.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u35	We are all!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u36	Of course, then you'll have to talk to them, but everything's fine. by the way, there are no responsibilities of leaders.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u37	He's a great leader!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u38	Today, by the way, the discussion will be with the Arrival that supports Ukraine ; then, when the Plenary is finished, it will be with the Arrival that supports Russia. On the issue of the debate, it is of course true that we cannot be asking and disseminating information which questions the safety of people who are in Ukraine fighting the Russian regime. It is true that there have been very serious failures in Portugal and the Liberal Initiative soon denounced it. I was the first person in this Parliament to ask Mr. Prime Minister, who did not respond, and only two days ago did the cases begin to appear in the press, gained a media dimension and then parliament. Therefore, the first failure, as has already been said, is also Mr. Prime Minister, the first responsibility is for him and the first step to correct this is now to exclude from public support all sanctioned entities, all associations linked to the Russian regime. The first step towards this is, after the adoption of the proposal of the Liberal Initiative last week in the Budget, to make such a list that identifies associations linked to the Russian regime. This list must be published. So the first question I ask the Government is when it will be published. Obviously it will not be a week job, but I would like to have a certain deadline. Then, of course, all public support must be cut and suspended, whether material or financial, to these associations.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u39	You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u40	I shall conclude very quickly, Mr President. I end with two questions to the Government: today, which is even special, we would like to know how many refugees are children and how many refugees already have employment contracts, to this day. The last data we have is about a month ago in the State Budget, and we would like to have the data updated. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u41	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, from the Left Block, who has the floor for an intervention, is now inscribed.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u42	Mr President, Members of the Government, Mrs and Mrs. Members: What happened at the reception of Ukrainian refugees should not have happened. There are Ukrainians and Ukrainians coming to our country, fleeing from war, and they are received by someone who has connection to the aggressor who expelled them from their country, with weapons, missiles and threats of death, should not happen. And if it happened, there must be an explanation. The explanation may be the responsibility of the House of Setúbal, it may be the responsibility of some State entity, but it is a responsibility of the Portuguese Government, who, on behalf of the Portuguese State, gives international guarantees for the enforcement of the law, for the protection of human rights and for the safeguarding of the rights of refugees. From that point of view, we need to be answered by the Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs, the Government, about what went wrong. We've had auditions in 1. the Commission but this unequivocal answer has not yet happened. It is true that it was the Socialist Party that prevented the coming of Mr. President of the House of Setúbal to this Parliament. It is true that it did so not for a reason of great dignity and ethics but, yes, by changing its bottle, changing the way in which, for the same situation, it makes a decision. And when I took the decision one year ago that, yes, Parliament should have access to all the answers, now—we do not know why, except with a few scrambled excuses—the President of the House of Setúbal of this Parliament has 'hidden' when, with democratic freedom, we would have the opportunity to ask him directly what happened. But we know a second thing: it seems that Mr. Prime Minister has been informed about actions of elements linked to the Russian regime in the national territory that apparently were related to such associations that were part of the reception of Ukrainian citizens and citizens, and Mr. Prime Minister has not acted. But there it is, we cannot ask Mr Prime Minister why he is hiding himself, or is hiding behind the Rules of Procedure or is hiding behind the secret of state, and that is why we cannot do much. It is that the secret of state has wide backs and indeed gives to hide much, but there are political answers that do not cease to be relevant even if the Prime Minister does not answer them, even if he says they are State secrets. Now, you're lucky Mrs. Minister, you're very lucky, because it was here called by the Arrival and not even a question asked you. The only thing they say is: "We don't like you, we wanted to be the Prime Minister", but even a question they asked the Prime Minister. After all, they invited the Government to have coffee, because they say: « No, but the important thing is not this debate, it is the next debate on the committee of inquiry ». No, it is not good, even the next debate is the debate that we are still going to mark on another committee of inquiry, because when it comes to knowing the concrete case, which is very serious, the Arrival does not want to know anything and we know why. Mr Bernardo Blanco has forgotten to ask the question that I believe is even more fundamental. It is only to ask about the leaders of the Arrival, you know, the answer is always the same: that is the party of a single person, who sets and disposes, is the president who sends, everything goes back.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u43	Here are 12 and you are 5! [[Doze!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u44	But, Mr President, remember-CL from the photographs of André Ventura to the hugs and kisses with Marine Le Pen or to the hugs with Matteo Salvini, and remember-CL will also remember that these two, Le Pen and Salvini, are exactly the same ones that gave their hand to Putin when he had in his plan to use the extreme right to destruct European countries. That's why the incoherence doesn't come from the bottom, it doesn't come from the middle, it's not even from the direction, it's from the party president himself, who now says it's against Putin and all his allies, but in minutes, or, perhaps, from now on, it's going to be hugged exactly to Putin's allies, and that's exactly what we have to expose. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u45	Great!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u46	For an intervention, Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, Secretary of State : The separation of waters between those who promote and live with xenophobia and racism and those who fight against them is not made with more or less humanistic proclamations. [[CH protests.]] We are committed to solutions to the problems that affect immigrants and refugees seeking conditions in our country to rebuild their lives.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u48	He saw himself when Zelenskyy spoke in Parliament! They weren't here!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u49	This separation of water is made in the commitment to adequate reception measures, simplification of procedures for regularizing the administrative situation and access to public services, measures to combat trafficking in human beings and to exploit labour or sexual activity, social integration measures and also protection of the civil and political rights of refugees and immigrants, of all refugees and immigrants, without distinction of ethnicity, religion, geographical origin or any other discriminatory criterion. [[CH protests.]] This water separation, which is so necessary today, is made up of the taking of responsibilities by the State, starting with the government and the entities under its protection. Therefore, the first question that needs to be clarified is whether the Government will make any commitments or whether it will continue to transfer its responsibilities to others, including authorities, whether it will join in other degrading performances such as those we have assisted, without hesitate to lie to shake the lightness and incompetence with which it has dealt with situations, or whether it will continue to place the decisions and responsibilities of the Portuguese State in the hands of foreign States. The reception of refugees is indeed a humanitarian duty and Portugal must assume it as such in all its scope. This willingness to welcome, which is part of our values and of the spirit of April, which is the founder of the democratic regime, does not, before it reinforces the responsibility to look critically at the conditions of this reception. It is clear from the outset that the legal conditions that have been created for the reception of refugees and immigrants in Ukraine must be common to other refugees and immigrants, and the good that has been done does not remove the responsibilities of European governments and institutions as regards other moments and refugees who have found seas of indifference, sacrificing so many lives, but must be made final so that in the future they will serve all refugees and immigrants. On the other hand, it is indeed necessary for the government to assume its responsibilities and not push them towards others, sometimes resorting to lies. Issues such as the homogenisation of voluntary reception processes or coordination, identification and intervention regarding emergency reception with a view to stable solutions are involved, a failure that already has its reflections when we know of Ukrainian citizens who have been homeless in the Algarve or Guard without being careful alternative solution. The lack of linkage between state structures and the state's articulation with entities such as immigrant associations is concerned. in this context, and after the entire campaign of xenophobia launched with lies, slanders, about the reception in Setúbal, the most relevant measure taken by the Portuguese State, and for the worst reasons, was to deliver to a foreign embassy a decision that can only fall upon the Portuguese State, regarding the entities with which it relates to ensure that reception. The consequences of this decision are obvious. Indirectly assumed by the government, it can indeed be dramatic consequences. Just think of the situation in which citizens who have fled Ukraine are being persecuted for political, ethnic or other reasons to understand this.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u50	Finally they condemn something!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u51	With regard to the prevention of labour, sexual exploitation and trafficking in human beings, the situation is no less worrying. Despite the slightness with which the Minister stated that there is no case of trafficking in human beings, also in Portugal the tip of the iceberg began to appear, with reported cases of trafficking in Ukrainian women. We are also concerned about the use of this wave of refugees and migrants as cheap labour and the lack of means of the Act (Working Conditions Authority). Mrs. Minister, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the problems in these matters are many and serious and therefore the CFP insisted on its discussion almost two months ago. We will not give up this fight against xenophobia and will fight for political commitment with the necessary solutions and with the life of those who have sought our country to build a better life project. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u52	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u53	Mr President, Madam Minister, Secretary of State, Faces and Dear Colleagues : I confess my astonishment at attending a debate — urgently, see there! — on the reception and integration of refugees where there is no single mention of the United Nations Convention on the Status of Refugees. I understand that there is no protection of refugees in general on the part of the applicant for the debate. [[CH protests.]] However, this is the legal basis that protects the people we welcome in Portugal. That is the international commitment that Portugal and its Government are obliged to make. That, therefore, is also the international and constitutional commitment that this House commits itself to, monitoring and making them respect. What we see in this debate is a kind of choreography to deliberately flee the target, and when you deliberately flee the target, what seems to be that, after all, the target is not the one that should be.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u54	Speak of Setúbal! He didn't talk about anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u55	Because if this is a subject of spying, the SIS (Security Information Service) comes and tells us that you can't tell us more than what you said. If it is a subject of data transfer to a foreign embassy, it is a crime—to speak with the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Judicial Police. If it is a matter of local power, it will be with Mr. President of the House of Setúbal, who did not come here. If it is a topic of data protection, it is with the National Data Protection Commission ( CNPD ).
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u56	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u57	To conclude, this is about integration and reception of refugees and the question is very simple: has Portugal met its international obligations? And the answer is also simple: we have to do much better, we have not been enough at the time, and that is what we are debating here today, but the proposer strangely does not want to debate. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u58	Mr Nuno Carvalho of the PSD Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u59	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: What we heard today was a set of statements and considerations and all of them had something impressive — they deviated from the problem. That is to say, they have not been able to put here, so far, the fundamental question, which is a simple question. For example, as regards the refugees in Setúbal — who are my city, my land, who welcome and who, of course, have worked hard to welcome refugees — has this problem been solved? Any government members have already been there, have I intervened?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u60	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u61	Yes or no? What we saw here was a set of statements that led to considerations about other parties, such as the PSD or the Liberal Initiative, took into consideration several other things when, in practice — I repeat, in practice — they do not want to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u62	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u63	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I think there are parties here that have to do just by name. That's enough! That's enough, 'cause this isn't a circus!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u64	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u65	It's enough because the Social Democratic Party is here to address the problem directly. [[PSD applause.]] The Social Democratic Party is here to deal with the human dimension of this problem. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there are parties who want us to defend a policy that says: "We will distinguish according to where people are born. » That's what we heard! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, do justice to your name: that's enough! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u66	Great morale!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u67	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS Parliamentary Group now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when we look at the agenda this afternoon, we see, on the agenda, two topics relating to matters that are related. But the fact that they are related does not force us to confuse them and try to do the same debate at the same time of two different things. What Mr Ventura did not do in the initial intervention, by failing to separate the issues, the other Mrs. Members who have spoken so far have made a serious effort to do so in this debate. [[CH protests.]] We will come to the debate on the parliamentary inquiry, but in fact, what we were hoping to find at this point in the debate was to know how refugees are being accommodated in Portugal, throughout the national territory, how we can request additional information from the Government on this matter, since we have had the opportunity — either at the regular hearing of the Budget, or at the comings to 1. the Commission — to hear the Minister and the Secretary of State make a point of order on what has happened.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u69	The government has not answered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u70	What we see is, in fact, a clear intention to confuse two issues and also to simplify what is particularly complex. And I'm giving examples of that. It looks at the reality of the Ukrainian community in Portugal — also complex, diverse and heterogeneous — which has been rooted here for many years and has associations from several origins (some will be Russian and Russian, others will be Ukrainian speakers), with different positions that mirror the diversity of these countries as well, and it is expected that 10, 5, 7 years later the Portuguese Republic will judge facts which could not know or judge about the past, about facts that happened two months ago. That is unacceptable, too, in the way in which the debate is placed. When we talk about aspects such as the support that certain migrant associations have had in Portugal over the past 10 years, is there expected to be a debate on what happened 10 years ago with facts that we have had access to two or three years ago? Are facts expected to be judged 10 years ago based on behaviors that occurred 3 or 4 months ago? [[CH protests.]] What is true is that there have been, cross-sectionally, the various political forces that have ensured governance since 2011—either when it was the PSD coalition with the CDS, or when it was the Socialist Party to govern, and still govern—supports various organizations that meet the requirements of the law! The composition of the Consultative Council of the ACM (High Commissioner for Migration), too, has established and signed rules in the law and we must respect what we are still, fortunately: a rule of law which does not discriminate neither the Portuguese citizens nor the Ukrainian citizens who reside among us and who, for this reason, have benefited from the support provided they meet the requirements and, of course, comply with and respect the Portuguese legal order. However, in the elements that have so far been able to obtain, with the parliamentary hearings, with the discussion we have made at this headquarters, there is a lack of elements demonstrating the reverse. There is one situation we want to discuss, which is the reception of refugees. So what we would expect was to have in this debate a list of problems regarding this reception of refugees. Is that what we heard? This is what we have heard from the proposer of this debate on how is the reception of refugees in Portugal so far? No, that is what we have heard from all the other parties, taking advantage of the debate to put questions to the Minister and the Secretary of State, so that this debate will have some use. Not that the utility is brought by the proposer of the same — that is, it is awkward! — it is the other parties that are making some useful use of this debate, asking questions about what is concerned. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And now, of course, we can and should deepen the information we have access to, but thanks to the various parliamentary, ordinary hearings and those that are required further, we know several things: we know the number of people who have been temporary protection beneficiaries—over 40 000 ; we know the number of children(and the Minister, surely will give more detailed information than we had a few weeks ago, but it is a significant number, almost 12,000, according to the data presented when the parliamentary hearing took place) ; we know that we have seven times more refugees to be welcomed in 2022 than in previous years and that, in this context, the response that the Portuguese Republic has given to the scale of the challenge and that we are a country especially sought by the Ukrainian migrant community, because we know that here has roots, has a network of associations and here are many of its family. Therefore, the response of Portuguese and Ukrainians in this country has been exemplary at this level. We know that various legislative and regulatory measures have been adapted and introduced to ensure access to school, social protection, employment, identification numbers. All of this we know because, in fact, Parliament has worked, and it has worked within normality, also examining the activity of the government, surely with parties that disagree more than others of the solutions that the government presents. In fact, this is one of the ones who will disagree less, tends not to disagree, makes an effort for this and expects a simultaneous effort on the other side. But this is the debate that we should be doing. And if any topic could be relevant from the question of Setúbal, which was the pretext and the only case that so far allowed us to identify difficulties, it was to know, in the articulation with the authorities (and this is the question that I leave to Mrs. Minister ), how can we do this work. Mrs Alma Rivera, allow me to disagree, but it is not a question of deresponsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u71	But that's what the Minister has done!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u72	The central administration exercises its powers and, when the municipalities want, establish a protocol with the central administration, which has rules to be done, and the municipalities that have done so are monitored. There is an ethical letter attached to the protocol that they sign with the municipalities and with the ACM and therefore it is perfectly possible to carry out this follow-up. What, unfortunately, we had in the case of Setúbal was the absence of protocol and the absence of this possibility of having additional support and rules that would ensure and perform this operation. Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Party is not afraid to recognize when it goes wrong. In fact, we were wrong when we found that the location proper for a president of the chamber to provide clarification was this. In fact, we did so, even in relation to an author of the Socialist Party, therefore the PS did not shield itself and did not set a pretext for not bringing here an author of his party, but today recognizes that he did not do so properly and that the local itself is the municipal assembly, and curiously, in relation to an author who is not even of the Socialist Party. So, in this regard, I think it is ethically correct to recognize when we err and not repeat the mistake. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u73	For an intervention, Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal has mobilized to receive more than 39 000 Ukrainian refugees so far. This is the largest refugee flow since the Second Great War. It was a solidarity effort of the Portuguese, who once again demonstrated their human dimension in the face of the tragedy in Ukraine, and I ask for renewed attention to this fact: about a third are smaller. In view of this reality, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, do you think this is just a political issue? In view of this reality, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, don't you think this issue has a human dimension? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u75	Yes, there! It has a human dimension to which Portugal has responded through local power, with joints of parish and municipal chambers to mobilize themselves, professional orders to be made available to help, associationism and entrepreneurs, thousands of anonymous people, and the list continues. And it would be bad indeed, it is very bad for this Parliament not to start this debate precisely by thanking all those who helped Portugal to be recognized out there. [[PSD applause.]] As the Minister for Parliamentary Affairs said, referring to the case of Setúbal, a little girl does not make the spring. But the truth is, above all, we must recognize that the mobilization was of the country, it was of Portugal, it was of the Portuguese. And, yes, that is the gratitude that must be made and on that must the government contain itself and not try to steal the rewards of the human dimension that the country has shown,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u76	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u77	... a true wave of solidarity. But this wave of solidarity from the Portuguese people does not remove the responsibility of the Government, the Minister or the High Commissioner for Migration. It is not just serious that we have not heard a word of thanks as expressly as that of the PSD Parliamentary Group, which is here today to thank the country neither the Minister nor the High Commissioner for Migration, it is rather very serious that we see the Government avoid responsibilities on the reception of refugees in Portugal when the responsibility for all — I stress, for all of the refugees that Portugal receives — is the Government of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u78	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u79	That is why the country, particularly the large part of it involved in this wave of solidarity, could not help but be amazed — I would say even outraged — when he heard, days ago, the High Commissioner for Migration said that he only knew about Setubal's case for social communication. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u80	With these statements, the country can only be questioned: after all, does the government not know who is hosting refugees? After all, does the government not know who is replacing it in its role? [[PSD applause.]] After all, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, what is the role of the Government? Is it swirling to the side? Oh, my God! It is gratifying to see the main political leaders, the decision makers in this area so sensitive and with the human dimension that they have, with more doubt than certainty. With this scenario there seems to be only one certainty: it is that the government, so far, is the only one that does not correspond. And there is another recent example: the Government and the High Commissioner for Migration launch a line of support for Ukrainians, SOS Ukraine. So far, it's all normal. What is absolutely incomprehensible is that the three line service options, at least a few days ago, were: key 1, Portuguese; key 2, English; key 3 — passem, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! — he was not Ukrainian, he was even Russian.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u81	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u82	Nothing against the Russian language, but where is the government? And, worse, what is the High Commissioner doing for Migration? When Russia invades Ukraine, with all the tragedy that it brings, this means that Ukrainians leave everything behind and many have lost family members. They arrive in Portugal to start the life and the line of support that the government creates takes care of them in Russian. Is this illegal? Oh, my God! Of course not, but it shocks. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u83	It is obvious that anyone is shocked, or at least the Minister and the Government should be shocked. [[PSD applause.]] Here, in Portugal at least, in the face of the wave of solidarity by Ukraine, of which almost all parties are involved, should be shocked. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u84	The Bureau asks whether there are further requests for a word or whether we can move to the second point of our agenda. [[Pause.]] By order of entry, there are two requests for speech: Mr Andre Ventura and Mrs Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs. Mr Ventura, with great pleasure, gives the precedence, so he has the floor, for an intervention, the Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I believe that the usefulness of this debate — and I would like to thank the House for having proposed it — is that we realize that, more than we speak for newspapers or social networks, we must talk about facts and the policy of reception that has been deserving of international recognition and that Portugal does every day. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The second aspect to be emphasized is this: it is not just the recognition of the Ukrainian refugees who arrive here; it is all refugees and all immigrants who arrive in Portugal who deserve the same treatment of dignity and respect for their rights, freedoms and guarantees. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, if there were any doubts about the proposer of this debate, neither a word, I repeat, nor a word said about the vulnerability of the more than 39 000 people who have arrived in Portugal and of more than 6 million and a half of the displaced persons in Ukraine who are currently spreading around the world. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What is really essential to the government is that there is full integration of all those who arrive here. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, 15 days ago, Portugal was distinguished in the United Nations because it was one of the best countries on public policies for the reception and integration of immigrants.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u86	Thank the Portuguese!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u87	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, if you do not want to listen to me, hear President Zelenskyy thanking Portugal and the Prime Minister for welcoming Ukraine's displaced persons in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u88	Thank the Portuguese!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u89	If you won't listen to me, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, listen to the German Chancellor, who previously recognized Portugal as an example in the policy of welcoming refugees and in this crisis. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a lot that has been done over the years and I would like — because it is worth looking at numbers — to say that Portugal has become part of all international reception mechanisms at the end of 2015. Portugal has been participating in humanitarian emergency responses, creating in 2017 the Refugee Integration Support Centre, in the ACM, and could talk about several of the policies we have made. On refugees, the people who come from Ukraine, it is important for the House to be aware that, first of all, Portugal was the first country in the European Union to grant temporary protection to these people and to say that it welcomed everyone here. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are talking about more than 39 000 people whose processes of agileization for number of taxpayers, number of health users or number of social security are today above the levels that were expected by the opposition benches. Today, of the 12,500 children, 4600 children already integrated into the Portuguese education system and about 3,000 employment contracts already concluded with the people who arrive here, and more work contracts will be concluded in the coming years. Is there much we can do? Oh, my God! Yes, surely, we can improve every day, but improve is, when you realize that key 1 is in Portuguese, key 2 in English and key 3 in Russian, immediately, to make it, as it was done, in Ukrainian, because that is the obligation of the Portuguese State. That is what we have done, and that is what is being done right now. [[Protests by PSD Member Catarina Rocha Ferreira.]] Try it, Mrs. Deputy! It is also necessary to say, when things go wrong — and I say it again — that in this particular case the Andorina, fortunately, did not make spring, i.e., fortunately, the lightness with which Setúbal made the reception of refugees is not an example in the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u90	I lied in the assembly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u91	That is not an example in the country, and that is why we cannot say, as the honourable Member said, that 150 people displaced from Ukraine were about to be homeless this week — in fact today. at this moment, they are all with housing response in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] More: out of 39 000 people, 10 000 people have asked for accommodation and are all integrated and with accommodation response. There is an effort that will be improved, in the coming times, with all the authorities you want,... [[PCP protests.]] ... I repeat, with all the authorities who want to hold protocols with the High Commissioner for Migration, to respond to the housing needs that people have right now. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand the attempt of the 'foam of days', but for the government there is one thing that is certain: respect for the human rights of all who arrive here is to be met with serious public policies of integration for these people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u92	You have the floor now, Mr Ventura, of the Arrival, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of this debate something is clear. It is clear that the Government does not want to respond to why it was called. I know that all banks have an interest in transforming this debate into a general year of reception for refugees in Portugal. It turns out that this is not what you've been called here, Minister. It was called to say whether or not the Government had information that compromised the safety of Ukrainians, and the Government did not want to respond to it. More serious than that, you don't want to respond with the support of all the benches! That is serious, in a debate like this. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. President, listen to the PCP concerned about Ukrainian refugees... [[CH's laughs.]] [[PCP protests.]] ...it would not be a tragic exercise but it is closer to a comedy, coming from the party that refused to attend a conference of President Zelenskyy in Parliament. Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares, I don't know if this is a single man's party. I look back and I see 12 Members; I look there and I see only five. So I don't know what a single man's party is, sir! [[Congrats from the CH.]] But I would also like to thank you for this: it was your parliamentary group that voted against the European Parliament resolution on Russia's aggression to Ukraine in Europe! [[Protests from BE Pedro Filipe Soares.]] Yes, sir! I'll tell him! Since you don't know, go study!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u94	Study yourself! Don't be a liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u95	The points 21, 22, 25 and 27. So when the European Left Block Group votes against sanctions in Russia, he does not have much moral to talk about.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u96	Don't be a liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u97	Mr. Member, if they are hugs and kisses, I will tell you one thing: I was never in the same house as Pablo Iglesias, who even yesterday defended that there should be no more sanctions for Russia. Stay for the worry of the Left Block. Mr Nuno Carvalho, indeed, is enough. It is enough to see the PSD always handing over to the Socialist Party. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u98	I hope that, with a new leadership, for God's sake, they will overcome this black phase of your history, always standing by the side of the Socialist Party. That's enough! There, Mr President, we are in absolute agreement. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u99	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u100	I will finish, Mr. President. I ask you only one tolerance to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u101	Mr President, you cannot, on a system basis, violate the rule of law.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u102	I'll finish. Mr President, I would ask you only to respond to the following: Mr Pedro Delgado Alves and Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, which is not welcome here. I know what you wanted to turn this into a gender debate: 'Ah, what can we do better now, Minister? » And Mrs. Minister : « Look, we can do more about this and more about it». We're not talking about it! We're wondering if the government of Antonio Costa knew, or not, that they were Russians who were receiving Ukrainians... [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u103	... and whether or not the secret services informed the Portuguese Government that there was Russian espionage in Portugal in these associations. At that, neither the Minister nor the honourable Member were able to respond. That is why only a committee of inquiry can answer, because as far as the government is concerned, we have already seen that it does not want to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u104	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u105	No, Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, it wasn't an ethics exercise...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u106	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u107	I'm really going to finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, it was not an ethics exercise that prevented the President of the Setúbal Chamber from coming here. It's not your historic cataract to say they were wrong. They are afraid of what Mr. President of the House of Setúbal can say to this Parliament. [[Congrats from the CH.]] That is the truth, and that is why they do not want responsibilities. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u108	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Nuno Carvalho.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u109	It can't be! It's the closure, you can't have the word anymore!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u110	No, Mr. André Ventura. The urgent debate is organised with an opening, which is up to the proposing party, and then, by order of registration, all the parliamentary groups or single Members who thus understand it, as long as they have time available.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u111	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u112	Sir, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u113	I am sorry, Mr President, we have nothing against which Mr Nuno Carvalho speaks, but, when the Bureau was contacted, it was specifically to indicate that time would be used at the end of this debate. Let's see: the Rules of Procedure are not just for our convenience! It is not the proposer who closes the debate and then has the floor of everyone else! It doesn't fit anyone's head, because...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u114	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u115	No, no! You have contacted the Bureau specifically for the end of the debate. That is why, Mr President, it was not the failure of the Arrival, it was the failure of the Bureau. We have contacted the Bureau to close the debate, which is the custom in this kind of agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u116	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u117	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u118	To make a telegraphy inquiry to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u119	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u120	Mr President, telegraphically, it is only to note that in the debate model we are doing, which is the choice of the proposer and is an urgent debate, there is a specific time for openness but there is no time for closure.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u121	That's not it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u122	There will also be, in the ensuing debate, which, yes, has a specific time for closure, in which the proposer has the prerogative to use the word. I could have chosen another model, but he chose this one. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u123	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u124	Mr. André Ventura, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u125	Mr President, it is to provide an explanation to Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves about this.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u126	Mr President, ask the Bureau about the conduct of the work. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u127	Mr President, in response to what Mr Pedro Delgado Alves said, I would ask you to go to a site that you must know, which is www.parlamento.pt. At www.parlamento.pt, there is the agenda. Let's see if we all understand each other! At the end of the agenda, on this point — I shall read, so that there is no confusion — it is said: 'If you have time, the parliamentary group which requires the urgent debate is the last to intervene'. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Let's see if we understand each other! That's what's on the agenda!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u128	It's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u129	The Parliamentary Group of the Reach... [[PS protests.]] Speak down!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u130	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for conditions. Let's keep him warm. Mr. André Ventura, please conclude your appeal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u131	Very succinctly, Mr President, assuming a right which the Rules of Procedure themselves and the agenda set out, the Bureau contacted the Bureau to be the last parliamentary group to intervene and it had one minute and 47 seconds. That's what was requested. It makes no sense for another parliamentary group to come to talk after the closure. It is completely contrary to what is on the agenda. Mr Deputy, it is www.parlamento.pt, « agenda ». Look, that's what's there.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u132	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the regimental figure of the urgency debate is organized in the way I described it: there is a period of openness, the proposing party has 6 minutes to present the topic and then a debate period is followed. This debate does not end with an end to the debate. It is a period that is organized according to the time limits assigned to each parliamentary group and according to the grid which was promptly approved at the Conference of Leaders. in these terms, registration is done by the order with which it is requested. If there were between the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival and the Bureau any communication that might have misled the Arrival, as President of the Assembly, I apologize to the Arrival for that, but what the agenda does not determine is that an closure is planned. I have before me the agenda, which, by chance, is initialled by me, so it is valid. Therefore, you used your time when you understood and now there is a parliamentary group that still has time and that you want to use it. It is a right of this parliamentary group and I shall therefore give the floor to Mr Nuno Carvalho. Do the favor, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I will be very, very brief. For a party that's so bad, actually, maybe, using 6 seconds could really worry about getting there. [[CH protests.]] I will not waste any more time on arriving, I will just make a very important reference, to remind Mrs. Minister, who still has time, that it was important to remember that she should thank the Portuguese, all those who mobilized for Portugal to actually find these rankings and receive these prizes. When the Prime Minister, on behalf of Portugal, receives these prizes, he is on behalf of all Portuguese who have worked hard. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u134	But the Minister did not thank them again, contrary to what the PSD Parliamentary Group did. Ms.Minister again referred to Setúbal, but it is not Setúbal, it is the Municipal Chamber of Setúbal, because many Setúbalians have engaged in Portuguese projects to receive refugees. Mrs. Minister, you still have time. Please, thank you! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u135	You have the floor to speak to Mr Pedro Delgado Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very telegraphically, I would like to say to Mr André Ventura that the Socialist Party is not afraid of any intervention that the President of the Municipal House of Setúbal can make. Portugal is a free country, it will talk where to understand and this will be disseminated by the media. So everything he wants to say can say.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u137	Not the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u138	What we do not do is withdraw from the Municipal Assembly and the Municipal House of Setúbal its right to monitor the body to which they were elected. That's what we don't think we should do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u139	You now have the floor for an intervention by the Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say the following again: for the Government, what is at stake is not marking points for social networks. What is at stake, truly, is to treat the most vulnerable,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u141	It's the Portuguese!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u142	... that are coming to Portugal right now and need to be welcomed, well-treated and integrated. That's what we'll always be focused on. For everything outside this sphere, they will not count on the PS government. More, Mr President: the best demonstration that we thank all our efforts is that, at the moment, in the face of the volunteerism and solidarity that has been generated in Portugal, we are trying to respond to those who, willingly and with great solidarity, have brought people and for whom they have no answer, as happened and is happening in the Algarve. That is why we will work to welcome everyone with dignity and respect for their rights. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u143	We turn to the second item on the agenda, which is from the opinion of the Parliamentary Inquiry No 1 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Possible parliamentary inquiry into the work of the Portuguese State in establishing partnerships with Russian citizens'associations in the reception and integration of Ukrainian citizens in Portugal. For an intervention, Mr Bruno Nunes, of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u144	Mr. President, in your own person, I welcome all those present. Much of the debate has already been done and we already realize that the Arrival believes that there must be a committee of inquiry and that we must clarify matters. Everyone talks a lot at home, accuses him of going to social networks, but then we see that the PS councilman said that the Mayor of Setúbal was aware of the connection to the Kremlin and here the PS is trying to hide him. Then Mr. Nuno Carvalho likes to make these films about arriving... « That's enough, that's enough! »...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u145	Enough, enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u146	There is enough, but you keep shouting at the Municipal Assembly, saying that the House should fall and that the PSD will present motions of censure, knowing that, in the municipal assembly, motions of censure do not even have legal validity! Make the movie all over there and then come over here and say that you defend everything and something else and that the 6 seconds... that's enough! That's enough, because in Setúbal, no one already believes in you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u147	Get over there!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u148	« Reach there», says Mr. I hope that Montenegro will arrive here, which, by the way, is the only one who has had the position to realize that this commission of inquiry has to be done,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u149	There he is! Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u150	What about the refugees? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u151	... together with Jerome de Sousa, who says that there is no problem in coming to talk about the situation of the committee of inquiry. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u152	What about the refugees? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u153	In the middle, we have some films about what's going on, in which the Liberal Initiative joins your differences — indeed, I have not yet realized whether Mr Bernardo Blanco belongs to the Cotrim faction or Pinto faction — and they are having these wars, trying to overcome, with some jokes in the middle. [[Congrats from the CH.]] You know that it doesn't help to be liberal in the economy and then in the customs, you're stuck on that side... it's not enough to open two buttons of the shirt to say if it's liberal. It's a lot more than that! [[Laughs and applause from the CH.]] Who is there at home or is accompanying us here will say: but, after all, what happened in Setúbal? The questions were asked to the Minister, in committee, but all the questions that were asked by us had to answer, as the other would say, 'ball'! As for what Mr Pedro Delgado Alves said about whether we are now going to find out about relations for 10 years here, the point is that, 10 years ago, you said that you did not know an institution to which you gave €130,000. [[PS protests.]] So let's stop this. Your only problem is that the commission of inquiry is requested by the Arrival and subscribed by André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u154	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u155	The rest is conversation! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u156	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor. Madam Member, I ask you to pay attention to the times, since we are in a debate that has already spoken to us on the previous point.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u157	Thank you very much, Mr President, with our minute, we certainly cannot perform great miracles. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing in particular to the Arrival, which brought the proposal for the establishment of a possible committee of inquiry, to say that the NAP will follow this initiative. We understand that, in spite of the clarifications provided in the committee, they were not appropriate to clarify the episode that took place, in addition to the fact that the technical support for Ukrainian citizens, through telephone lines, is being done in Russian, is still having the same gravity. In our view, that is not the welcome we should deserve. We understand that all the clarifications must be provided, even those which were not, in particular, those of the President of the House, who should have come here, at the invitation of the Assembly of the Republic — even because this precedent already existed — because we are talking about the right to refuge, one of the basic rights, to the international point of view. We will therefore follow this proposal until there are also issues of internal security and the transmission of data whose scope we do not know. In conclusion, with regard to what was stated in the previous debate on the issue of women, I cannot but say that it is not just a pit that makes women invisible. There are many other ways to do this, including a conservative aspect of your party, which you think women are unfit to be in political life. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u158	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate and the possibility of setting up a committee of inquiry on the events of Setúbal take place only because the Socialist Party has blocked Parliament's supervisory role. Since the unfortunate events were known—at least in Setúbal! — in welcoming Ukrainian refugees who were sought by the Liberal Initiative in the House of Democracy. It was a need that society, as a whole, demonstrated. Mrs. Minister, it went very well, it is true, but not everything went well and so they would need clarifications. In committee, an appropriate parliamentary forum, we heard Ukrainian associations, the High Commissioner for Migration, two ministers, the Secretary-General of the Internal Security System and the Information System Monitoring Board of the Portuguese Republic ( SIRP ), at the closed door. But there's been a lot of them out there! The National Director of the SEF ( Foreign and Border Service ), the Secretary-General of the Information System of the Portuguese Republic ( despite our suggestion to hear it at the closed door ), the President of the Municipal Chamber of Setúbal and the Ambassador of Ukraine in Portugal. It was also Mr. Prime Minister, in a request submitted by the Liberal Initiative, after once again the PS had dropped the hearing of Mr. Secretary-General of the Information System, even at the closed door. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] The Assembly of the Republic had several reasons with sufficient legitimacy to inquire, summoning or inviting all these entities for clarification, but the PS, taking refuge in formalisms and dated opinions, once again fled to clarification and transparency and once again avoided the contradiction. I quote someone who in 2019 in this House said: « With PS there is no scrutiny, because they simply do not want it. Do not keep on seeking. ” by rejecting a hearing and supervision process, this Parliament failed the Portuguese and also failed the refugees, who were placed in situations of enormous discomfort and insecurity. It was the responsibility of this Parliament to monitor, without reservation, not only the case of Setúbal as all the suspicions that existed. We know that there have been serious failures in the communication between various responsible public entities and in the reception of refugees. We all deserved a clear explanation, but not thanks to the PS today and even with the previous debate, we still do not know what happened in concrete terms. The PS decided to build a narrative that only in Setúbal there would be problems and that the blame was exclusive to the House of Setúbal, but still remain the doubts about this. Only with this month's chronology, it's clear that the PS won't clear up and nothing wants to clarify. It is another chaga in the record of inimputability that PS cultivates. It is not surprising, therefore, that in the next annual edition of the Index of Democracy, Portugal again fell positions, already being classified as « a democracy with failures ». Here, the choice is between two evils: to give in to this drunk PS by the absolute majority and without scrutiny or to approve an inquiry committee which does not suit the determination of political responsibilities in this case. It's sad that it is. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u160	For an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State for Equality and Migration has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to this request for a parliamentary inquiry, I would like to start by recalling something that, I believe, we all realize, because the author of this initiative is precisely the same as the initiative that this House has discussed earlier. What we realize is that the last thing that interests the author of the initiative is the state in which reception is found in Portugal. Both one initiative and another serve other purposes than to take care of the interests of those who immigrate for various reasons or are forced to move from their countries of origin to escape the conflicts they face.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u162	Are you a Secretary of State or is she a Member? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u163	Having made this point of view, then, let us try to realize that a committee of inquiry can be more useful in ascertaining the truth, in clarifying the Portuguese and Portuguese than the difficulties already under way. We know that, at the initiative of the Government, guidance has been given to the National Data Protection Commission, which is the entity competent to monitor compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation, and to the IGF ( General Financial Inspection ), because there is a protection of legality in relation to local authorities, in order to measure compliance with the legality. On May 10, the Public Prosecutor's Office itself made public a statement saying that an investigation had been conducted on May 2, and that during that investigation on May 10, a set of investigations were being carried out by Setúbal's Department of Investigation and Criminal Action, with the support of the Department of Criminal Investigation and the Judicial Police of Setúbal. The law of parliamentary committees of inquiry states that these committees enjoy the investigative powers of the judicial authorities which are not constitutionally reserved. It happens that the demands which the Public Prosecutor launched on 10 May, with a view to ascertaining whether or not criminal matters exist, fall within the scope of the proceedings which are precisely subtracted from the competence of this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So the question that I am asking is this: these three investigations are under way, and an investigation is already under way by an entity which has a set of research competences and dynamisms that you and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what advantage will this committee bring? on the part of the Government, we will always be available to clarify everything that you and the ladies and gentlemen have. Ladies and gentlemen will understand. in this case, we consider that there is clearly a duplication of the work being done, with a clear disadvantage, given the difference in the competences that exist between the Public Prosecutor and the Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u164	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With an urgent debate and a debate on the committee of inquiry, the applicant had two opportunities to explain what he wants to see clarified and what he withdraws from the clarifications we have already had, but failed to answer both questions. We have been clarified about a lot of things. Has the Government sent a circular to the authorities with the care to be taken in the reception of Ukrainian refugees? Oh, my God! We know that this circular has not been sent, but the applicant never wanted to know how important it is.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u166	That is done in committee.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u167	Was there any exchange of information between information services and the High Commissioner for Migration? Oh, my God! We know not, and the applicant is not interested in that. The applicant is interested only in what may have political sum in an area that has nothing to do with the reception of refugees. I understand that you do not want to read the Geneva Conventions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u168	This is Setubal!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u169	...because they've got 18 pages, which, you know, is twice... [[CH protests.]] Take it easy, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, take it easy. As I said, we know that 18 pages are twice the pages of your party's electoral program in the last elections. [[CH's laughs and protests.]] In the Geneva Conventions they would find that the right to non-discrimination and the right to family unity of refugees are the obligations the Portuguese State commits to, at which time we may not have been.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u170	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u171	I conclude, Mr. President. The final question is very simple: does the committee of inquiry serve to improve the reception of refugees — and so would it be useful — or to use refugees in your political-partisan games? If it's the second chance, for that petition, my dears, we've already given.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u172	I now give the floor to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u173	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The question of whether there are questions to answer regarding the reception of Ukrainian refugees in Setúbal, the very direct answer is this: there is. Have the questions been asked? They were, but the government didn't respond. Could they have been answered? They could, but the government didn't want to answer. Should the President of the House of Setúbal have come to this Parliament to respond to some of them, even respecting the independence of the local authority? You could and should, the PS is that you didn't want to. To any of the questions that we would like to see answered, will the Prime Minister say, probably and at any time, "is it a secret of state and, therefore, will I not answer?" He'll say. Is a judicial investigation also under way? He is. Now, this whole set of questions and answers shows how there is still truth to be learned, important for the country's political knowledge. It also shows a great inefficiencies in the proposal to set up a committee of inquiry because, for most of the questions we may ask in this context, there will be one of these answers: 'I cannot answer, because there is an ongoing judicial investigation' or 'I cannot answer 'because it is a secret of state'. And this is probably the cover that will hide another, more true answer—but we won't listen to it—which is the following: "I won't answer because I don't want to. Do not keep on seeking. ” That answer is beyond our ability to find out with a committee of inquiry. Question: Does this proposal for a committee of inquiry really lie in a desire to know the truth? It does not seem, because none of the concrete questions that should have been asked was the case in today's debates, nor in the Commission, on the part of the Arrival. Moreover, I can even understand the moment when the will of the committee of inquiry was born in the mind of the Arrival. It was when, in the internal debate of the PSD, Luís Montenegro — now leader, but then candidate — said: « Perhaps it was important to have an inquiry committee. » Go thence, André Ventura said: « Before the PSD proposes it, or before the Liberal Initiative delivers the proposal, we will do it». Why? Oh, my God! How? Oh, my God! I'll see you soon. Well, but this 'later seen' shows the almost total ineffectiveness of the proposal, and that is the big problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u174	But how are you going to vote? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u175	In conclusion, there are questions to be answered and we will not be obstructed by the setting up of the Committee of Inquiry,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u176	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u177	... but we have no real expectations of any consequence of the committee of inquiry, exactly for what I have already said: because, at various times, there will be a judicial investigation which will be the answer to the questions we want to ask and, at other times, there will be a state secret to the questions we want to ask. But, Madam Minister, none of these aspects of the response removes another reality: that the Government must respond to the country and on them has not yet clarified what it should have clarified. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u178	You have the floor to speak to Mr Bruno Nunes of the Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u179	Mr President, some of the questions were about which the questions from the House were, after all, but that is why we want an inquiry committee to ask the questions, because if it were to discuss this would be a debate rather than the creation of an inquiry committee. It was therefore clear from the date that the questions we asked in committee were not answered. In fact, it's recorded on video that there was no answer. What we want to know now, here—and we can save a series of work—is your sense of vote, because whoever votes against is conjugating all this. End point, paragraph. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Of course, history is poorly explained. Of course, there are issues that have not been answered. In fact, we have come to the ridicule of the Communist Party to say "yes, ma'am, the President of the House comes here" and nobody wants to ask anyone anything, to see if this is happening.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u180	It's fear!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u181	And it's enough to be populist. My lords, we're gonna have a date. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u182	For an intervention, Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: There are, in fact, clarifications and clarifications that need to be done. On the other hand, before some have seen the matter of refugees withdrawing political-party profits, the CFP...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u184	The PCP had seen it! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u185	... had placed on the table the possibility of a hearing to hear the Minister, exactly on this issue and on the concerns that we had already had with the refugee reception process. In order to establish useful questions that improve the reception we make, the government needs to answer, but the government has not answered at the hearing we did or answered the written question! In fact, it did not answer the most written question the CFP Parliamentary Group has asked. And because of the position in this plenary, it seems you don't want to answer. Only there are things that are really very, very important to answer. It is important to understand which protocols should be followed and whether there is a homogenization of these protocols or whether we will continue to assist the entities responsible to say that they have nothing to do with the procedures that are followed. It is important to see if we are going to see this homogenization, if we are going to see more ease and speed in legal status and documentation, for example, knowing the history we have with the issue of document allocation. What are we going to do about housing? The problems are not just those that have already been revealed, the problems are of all the refugees who are currently in urgent care, which is a voluntary welcome from families. This is not an acceptable stability situation so that the Government can accept it as the last solution. What measures, for example, is the government taking from the point of view of preventing exploitation of work, when we have seen so many people rub their hands of contentment because there comes a number of people who can easily be taken advantage of, because of their vulnerability? What about sexual exploitation and trafficking in human beings? Oh, my God! In Spain, these situations have already been detected and in Portugal situations have already been detected.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u186	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u187	It is obvious that this will happen in a situation where there has been no monitoring of entry of people into our country and in which there are many women and children not accompanied. This is objectively a consequence of the migration movements and we, as we are not alone, have to prevent and fight. Trying to reduce this issue is a huge irresponsibility that puts the lives of women and children in our country at risk, and this should be the predominant concern. So the answer to these questions and the necessary measures—because this is a question of measures, it is a matter of action, it is not a matter of rhetoric! — they are indeed urgent. But do these issues depend on a committee of inquiry?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u188	It's good for anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u189	Is it in a committee of inquiry that these steps will be achieved and, above all, progress in the improvements that are necessary? We do not believe that this is the right instrument.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u190	Are you going to vote against? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u191	They need answers, but above all measures and actions for those who are really interested in a more humanist policy and in a much better reception for those who are looking for our country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u192	Mr André Coelho Lima of the PSD has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u193	Mr President, Members of the Government, Mrs and Mrs. Members : Although we do not compete with the qualifications of the interventions, especially of the party presenting this request, I cannot fail to say that it is a challenge to attend the motivation for this parliamentary committee of inquiry. A parliamentary committee of inquiry is a serious thing which you have planned to do, and you have had the opportunity to substantiate it, but you have lost yourself in distortions, you have lost yourself in the usual Levian plastics, without being able to base this Parliament on what motivates this parliamentary committee to investigate. [[PSD applause.]] Having said that, and because it is necessary to put things in their proper place, it is important to say that there is much to clarify with regard to Setúbal, the Municipal House of Setúbal and the Ukrainian refugees who have been welcomed there.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u194	Then vote in favour!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u195	It must also be said that it is a matter of greatest importance. The international image of Portugal is at stake, the reliability of our institutions in the eyes of third countries in the eyes of the world is at stake, and I must say, our confidence in the capacity and competence of our own institutions. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u196	This is a clarification that is more than necessary, it is the clarification that is imposed and that is mandatory. For this reason, in due time, the PSD presented several requirements to be heard in hearing, in 1. the Commission — and almost all of these hearings took place — the organizations and personalities we thought needed to clarify this matter. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Who talks for the PSD, until we see, we are still the ones here. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u197	And the PSD is not against the establishment of an investigative parliamentary committee. In such a way it is not that it does not rule out the possibility of requesting power. [[CH's laughs.]] The gentlemen calm down! You guys are very nervous. That's part of what they want to pass out there, but it doesn't affect me. Let me continue: this request has been made for the parliamentary committee of inquiry before the hearings took place. I must even say that at that time the parliamentary committee of inquiry could make some sense, I recognize.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u198	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u199	It would make sense, of course. However, the hearings came to clarify, so we considered sufficient, what we wanted to know.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u200	It's not true what you're saying!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u201	Listen carefully to see if you learn something! What did the auditions clarify? Point one, that the information services had duly monitored the activities of these organisations and their citizens. This had already been posted in the press, but it was missing to confirm and it was there confirmed. Point two — this is the most important — that the content of the reports from the information services reached Mr. Prime Minister's office. This was the conclusion that we wanted to withdraw from the hearings, and we withdrew. So from here on, having made it clear what we wanted to know — that the Prime Minister was aware of the reports — it is only necessary to ask this question: what did the Prime Minister do with this information? [[PSD applause.]] [[CH protests.]] That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, what is missing is to hear the Prime Minister on this matter, but at his own place, in this plenary of the Assembly of the Republic, before the Portuguese public scrutiny, allowing the same scrutiny and not — how would the parliamentary committee of inquiry that you want — that Mr Prime Minister, using the prerogative of Article 16 (3). the Legal Regime of Parliamentary Investigations, responds in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u202	Ah! And here you're going to answer? Oh, my God! Go, go!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u203	Here, in view of the Portuguese, you will respond to what the Portuguese Parliament has to ask you. That is how democracy works. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u204	So in conclusion, Mr President, I wanted to say the following: before the hearings took place in the context of 1. the Commission could indeed make sense to convene and request the parliamentary committee of inquiry. After the information we obtained during these hearings, we need to question what the Prime Minister did with these hearings. So yes, after listening to the Prime Minister and depending on what he says, we will see whether it is relevant or not to require a parliamentary commission of inquiry, and the PSD itself will consider doing so. [[PSD applause.]] Mr President — I call Mr Bruno Nunes of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u205	Mr President, Mr André Coelho Lima, what is it you want with this? Look, he wants to be more effective than the honourable Member who is sitting next to him was presenting motions of censure in the House of Setúbal, which do not serve anything and knew they were going to chumbar.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u206	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u207	So they could have asked before 1. the Commission, but we still have the blessing so that the Minister can answer in the Commission and she has not responded to anything. The gentlemen were there and they know they had no answer. In fact, you watched the number that the PS did when bringing some Braga associations to talk about what was going on in Setúbal. It looked like Herman José's catch, when he says «I, it's more cakes», because you didn't know what he was doing there! And you still think this is perfectly normal. Those who speak for the PSD are indeed you, but fortunately there is someone who is already outside this bench and who now leads you — who has been clear in its position and believes that this committee of inquiry must exist. [[Protests from PSD MP Nuno Carvalho and Sofia Matos.]] But as you guys are always broke, you may, however, continue to have one decision inside and another out. But go to Setúbal to justify that it is all right after all, Mr. Your municipal deputy who goes to Setúbal join the PS councilman and your councilman here and justify what you're defending here, while there they're saying something else.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u208	What about the refugees?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u209	You know, Mr. Deputy, Setúbal doesn't just serve to go there in the elections, eat fried shock and knock on his chest to say: "It's my land. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u210	What about the refugees?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u211	I now give the floor to Mrs Alexandra Leitão of the PS Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u212	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament: in a state of democratic law there is scrutiny and, in this case, there has been — and there is — scrutiny, but in a state of democratic law there are rules, because this is how it is avoided that, under the scope of the vote, an unqualified political use is actually made of a situation which is not for political use. And you want to know how there was scrutiny? There was scrutiny because the ministers were heard in the Commission, the President of the ACIME ( High Commissioner for Immigration and Ethnic Minorities ), the Secretary-General of the Internal Security System, the Committee on the Monitoring of SIRP, Ukrainian associations. They may have responded to more or less, but they all concluded that there was no systemic problem in welcoming Ukrainian refugees in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u213	Some have nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u214	It's a localized issue. Now, what I would like to hear from Mr Bruno Nunes is that they want to discuss Setubal politics in the Assembly of the Republic. It's not the headquarters, I'm sorry to tell you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u215	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u216	The Assembly of the Republic is not the seat to discuss Setúbal's politics.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u217	You don't know!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u218	This is already happening — as far as we know — a committee of inquiry, a monitoring, in its own place, fulfilling and respecting the principle of local autonomy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the other hand, the services and the competent entities of such a democratic rule of law that we all value — one more than others! —...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u219	It's true, it's true, some more than others!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u220	...they're already acting. They are operating the General Finance Inspection, the National Data Protection Commission and the Public Ministry itself and they must act, in their own place, because they have the power to do so. This House has already scrutinized where and how it should and will not give rise to unqualified political uses of situations that deserve serious treatment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u221	You have the floor to speak to the Secretary of State for Equality and Migration, Isabel Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u222	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to'steal' Mrs Alexandra Leitão, a very important word which she referred to more than once in her speech: seriousness. For example, Mrs Alma Rivera, it is not serious to ask a question on 25 May and, on 1 June, to accuse the Government of not answering. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u223	Don't! In the auditions!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u224	It's not serious, Mrs. Deputy!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u225	What's not serious is saying that! That's not serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u226	As it is also not serious to try to create the thesis that the government is committed to concealing information. In fact, as has been demonstrated to satiety by Mrs Alexandra Leitão, we have been here whenever we were urged to do so and we have done it with pleasure, but also in the strict fulfilment of our duty. On the issue, which we are very concerned about — I understand and share your concern, Mrs Alma Rivera — about trafficking in human beings, I think it would be useful for everyone, and eventually the Government should also make an effort in this regard, we will know more deeply about the work being done by the IGC (Commission on Citizenship and Gender Equality) and the National Rapporteur on Human Traffic. currently, in more than 20 suspicious situations, only one has been referred by the competent authorities for criminal investigation. I wanted to tell you that the security forces have done a job... [[Protests by PCP Members Alma Rivera and Bruno Dias.]] It's one, it's true, but we've signaled it, we've detected it, it's being investigated, mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u227	Great!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u228	An extraordinary work is being done by the security forces in border controls. leaflets have also been released in Ukrainian language, warning displaced persons and migrants of all situations in which they must be alerted and respect not only trafficking in human beings, but also, for example, labour exploitation situations. That is to say, Mrs Deputies, that the world and the institutions are made by human beings and we will never be able to assure you that we will always be able to anticipate all situations.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u229	It's not a human problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u230	But I would like to reiterate my earlier commitment that we will do everything we can to detect these situations, so that they are taken to the competent bodies and have the answer they must have, because Portugal is indeed a rule of law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u231	But that should be worth everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u232	Even during the debate period, Mr Bruno Nunes has the floor of the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u233	Mr. President, I promise to be very quick. Mrs Alexandra Leitão said that what you want is to discuss Setúbal. The Arrival wants to discuss Setúbal, Portimão, Leiria, the Arrival wants to discuss Portugal... [[Congrats from the CH.]] ...and what happened in Setúbal was a national security problem. You think this is an isolated case, that nothing is going on, that is already being investigated, that the means are already going on: But you have already said this in relation to the New Bank, the BPP (Privado Banco Português)... We do not trust this conversation. Therefore, we request the committee of inquiry, you are now speaking and will be tried out there for that. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u234	Mrs Alexandra Leitão has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u235	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not understand what you have said, because, with regard to these cases to which you referred, it has been said — not here, but in committee — that nothing has happened there that deserves such scrutiny or analysis. In fact, there is only one specific case and that is what has been pointed out to all of us in this Commission. It is not worth saying that something different has happened in the Commission than what has happened, because everyone there has said it was an isolated case and that the reception of Ukrainian refugees — and other nationalities, it is important to say that, because it is not just the Ukrainian citizens who must concern the Assembly and the government —...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u236	Why did you present the motion of censure? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u237	unlike Mr Deputy, I am not using this to discuss Setúbal's politics! [[CH Member Protests Bruno Nunes.]] What I am telling you is that it was clear from the hearings held in this House, in the Commission, that it was a point of order. So, contrary to what you said, we are not talking about other authorities or other places, which no one brought to the colloquium. That's not true. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u238	He didn't answer! [[Protests by PSD Deputies Nuno Carvalho and Sofia Matos and Ch Deputies Protests Bruno Nunes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u239	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to the conclusion of the debate. You have the floor for two minutes, on behalf of the proposing party, Mr Pedro Pinto. [[Pause.]] Thank you to the ladies. Members of the PSD and CH benches who create conditions for us to hear the speaker, who is from arrive.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u240	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members : We understand from this plenary that the committee of inquiry requested by the Arrival will be plummeted. It frightens the Socialist Party to maintain its pre-eminence attitude and to be the owners of all of this. They don't want to be investigated! We're used to it. They do not want to go to the bottom of the issue of what happened in Setúbal or whether or not the situation is repeated in other parts of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u241	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u242	PS puts ideology in front of Portuguese interests. He does not care who is at home and wants to know what really happened, he does not care about Ukrainian refugees, nor does he care if they give them houses and then take them away from him, because the holidays come there. The PS has only one concern: making a health circle to arrive, and today it is accompanied by the PSD and the Liberal Initiative. Great! Those who claim to defend the right — PSD and Liberal Initiative — join the Socialist Party. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The Left Block and the PCP aren't worth talking about, who's there at home you've already noticed. It is not for the PS to know what happened in Setúbal and even the Socialists' proposal at the Municipal Assembly of Setúbal did not go away from showoff. At the Municipal Assembly they say one thing, at the Assembly of the Republic they say and do another. We understand today why there is no interest in finding out what happened: the Government and the Socialist Party do not want to face Russia, because, at the same time that they condemn the war, they are friends of the Russians, or they did not have Fernando Medina as the Minister of Finance who passed the data of Russian activists to the Government of Vladimir Putin. to the socialists, no matter whether the Ukrainian refugees are received by Russians, Chechens or Belarusians, it is important that we are here to give everything: work, money, bed, table and laundry.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u243	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u244	Interest is to be internationally recognized as a refugee country. It was nice to hear the Minister say that Ukrainian citizens are quick to have a number of taxpayers, addresses and social security numbers, but it would be good for our embassies and consulates to work in this way and make it possible for Portuguese immigrants to do the same. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I do not know if I have to consult — and with this end, Mr President — the Socialist Dictionary of the Assembly of the Republic, but to lead this committee of inquiry, so that they do not want research or clarity, there is only one word: shame! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u245	You don't know any more! You only know that!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u246	It is with great pride that we continue alone on our bench, on our way, by the Portuguese. It says the people's wisdom: "It is better only than bad. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u247	We turn to point three of the agenda, which consists in the general assessment of the Bill No 6 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Electronic Communications Act and transposes Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 1972, establishing the European Electronic Communications Code, together with Bill No 89 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Strengthens the rights of end-users of electronic communications services. To present the bill, Mr. Secretary of State for Infrastructures has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u248	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Just over a year ago, the previous executive, the XXII Constitutional Government, brought to the Assembly of the Republic a bill transposing the European Code of Electronic Communications to the national legal system. At the time, it was pointed out that the Government's option to transpose this directive was to make the European Code a new version of the Electronic Communications Act, which has been the structural policy of this sector since 2004 and which already corresponds to a codification of the transposition of the Directives of the Electronic Communications Sector. This new law makes connectivity the fundamental basis of the digital transformation of society. It represents a broad regulatory framework aimed, in essence, at achieving a balance between promoting investment and the implementation of high-capacity networks, strengthening competition between companies in the sector and protecting consumers. Among the most powerful effects that the COVID-19 pandemic has brought, on the one hand, are the recognition of the unequivocal centrality of electronic communications networks and services in social and economic relations and, on the other hand, the acceleration of the widespread digitization dynamics of society and the economy. However, no digitalisation process can be accelerated without the promotion of very high capacity networks, without the complementarity between public and private investment, without intelligent spectrum management, without efficient regulation that prevents predatory behaviors and ensures healthy competition or without the State guaranteeing the effective experience of consumer rights that function as the basis of digital citizenship. And none of this is possible without a coherent, transparent and participatory regulatory framework. It is this framework that the new Electronic Communications Act aims to ensure. in this intervention, I wanted to strengthen the meaning of what is intended to be said with « built in a participated manner ». Just over a year ago, I pointed out that it was the government's initial intention to transpose the directive through a process involving all relevant entities in the sector. To this end, it asked the regulatory authority, ANACOM ( National Communications Authority ), to draw up a preliminary draft transposition, which submitted to a working group set up for this purpose—which included consumer operators, the regulator itself and the government—with the aim of proposing a consensus proposal for the diploma. However, after various vicissitudes, in particular the impact of the pandemic on work over the year 2020, it was not possible to conclude the proposal in a timely manner. In order not to delay the transposition, the Government chose to send to the Assembly of the Republic this bill, which included only mandatory transposition rules, calling for the position of the various entities to be defended, not in a closed group organized by the Government, but in an open parliamentary debate, public. This discussion effectively took place in the Working Group on Electronic Communications, established within the framework of the Committee on Economics and Public Works, Planning and Housing, of the XIV Legislation, with the holding of hearings of the relevant entities of the sector, between June and October last year. Unfortunately, with the dissolution of the Assembly of the Republic at the end of 2021, the bill did not have the opportunity to be approved. Having arrived here, it would have been easier for the XXIII Constitutional Government, above all with a configuration of parliamentary forces which is more favourable to it than in the previous legislature, to have changed its strategy and presented a more comprehensive bill, making legislative options in some controversial matters. But the government didn't. And he did not because it seemed to us that Parliament should be able, in the same spirit, to bring to the end the process that this House started a year ago. A process which, open to the participation of a wide range of entities in the sector, would be supported by a large public debate on such an important law. However, there is a marked difference between the time of the previous and the current legislation, since the delay in transposition of the directive led to the fact that the European Commission formally announced the referral of the non-compliance procedure to the Court of Justice of the European Union, thus initiating a contentious phase, which could lead to the application of sanctions to Portugal. The Government therefore urges that this House, having all the contributions already made in the framework of the Working Party on Electronic Communications, in the previous legislature, be able to do its work of reflection, debate and deliberation as soon as possible, so that this robust and balanced law can be adopted as soon as possible. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u249	To present the draft law of the NAP, you have the floor of Mr Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u250	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members: We all know the multiple situations of discrimination against consumers that exist in electronic communications. Who doesn't know people who have seen your operator charge additional mobile data packages without giving any consent to the effect or even deaf people who don't have to communicate with the customer support lines because their operator doesn't provide the service through a gesture-language interpreter? More: people who, by losing their jobs, still have to pay to end the contract before the end of the loyalty period. These situations leave consumers unprotected and it was to put an end to the NAP's initiative. We want operators, as the European Electronic Communications Code determines, to have to inform customers when the data ceiling is approaching the end, so that no additional packages can be signed without the consumer giving consent, in order to ensure more equality, but also more inclusion, because that is also what we are talking about. We therefore want to extend to all operators a good practice of the provision of Braille contracts and support lines to customers with Portuguese gestal-language interpreters. Some operators already practice it, but not all of them do. We want to ensure that, as ANACOM recommends, a consumer who is unemployed or has to emigrate does not have to pay for the charges inherent in the termination of the contract before the end of loyalty. Finally, we propose two additional measures: as ANACOM recommends and already exists in energy contracts, we want that, when the electronic communications service is suspended, in fact not imputable to the customer, the customer has the right to see the amount credited to the invoice for the period in which that service was suspended; and, as recommended by DECO (the Portuguese Consumer Defense Association), we want invoices to also identify the period which is missing for the end of loyalty. All these proposals have the purpose of strengthening consumer rights. We want them to be considered in the context of the wider discussion of the new electronic communications law, being fully available so that, in particular, a more just and, above all, more inclusive solution can be reached for all consumers, without exception.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u251	The intervention of the Secretary of State for Infrastructures led to a registration for requests for clarification. To that end, Mr Rui Afonso, from the Czech Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u252	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government's bill approves the Electronic Communications Act and transposes Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 1972, which establishes the European Electronic Communications Code. In the transposition of this directive, we can already state that the government could and should have gone further. We know that communication services today have a fundamental role in the lives of citizens and the pandemic has made this circumstance even more evident, with the need to implement telework or classes at home. We also highlight the weaknesses of network coverage, especially in the most interior areas of the country, particularly in the Alentejo, where network coverage is substantially lower than in other areas of the country. at this point, it should be mentioned that the lack of network coverage in certain places, especially those already discussed with the problem of depopulation, limits their opportunities more. In other words, a family who, having the possibility of being in a telework regime, intends to move to a more internal area will first have to check whether or not it can keep work away. ANACOM estimates that the ineffectiveness of the signal, or even its absence, reaches a total universe of almost 300 000 family housings of habitual residence, being this number undervalued, insofar as it concerns areas that already face the challenges of depopulation, and the absence of coverage further aggravates the situation. The proposal for a government law, in Article 32. the, provides that high quality broadband coverage and speed throughout the national territory is ensured. ANACOM is currently promoting a public consultation with the ultimate aim of ensuring the access of the entire population to networks of very high capacity by 2030. However, it is important to clarify what will be done in the short term to ensure network coverage for all families, regardless of the area of the national territory in which they are located. In addition, we question what plans exist for areas in the country where this network is weak or non-existent, given the fact that there are still eight years to achieve the goal. Another important point to mention is loyalty periods. It should be noted that both the DECO and the Competition Authority (ADC) have already delivered their views on this matter. Moreover, DECO specifically states that the new telecommunications law leaves many problems to be solved. Of course, it is important to clarify why, of the eight recommendations of the Competition Authority, only three were included in the bill. The recommendations considered by the Government were related to the arbitrary form as telecommunications operators impose loyalty on consumers. The government, having the opportunity to combat this situation, chose not to do so. For example, the Competition Authority specifically recommended that the only exceptions to the rule of impossibility of a new loyalty period should be in situations where the subsidized provision of new terminal equipment or the installation of new services should occur. However, the Government chose not to include this reference in its proposal. on this point, it should also be clarified why the Government chose to drop the obligation to make tariffs available with shorter loyalty periods. In other words, operators currently have to offer tariffs for loyalty periods of 6, 12 and 24 months, but with the amendments now proposed they will only have to ensure 24 months, insofar as they are only imposed that limit. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u253	You have the floor to answer, Mr Secretary of State for Infrastructures.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u254	There have been no requests for clarification!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u255	Formally, the intervention of Mr de la Chega was submitted as requests for clarification. Therefore, the Government has the power to respond, wishing. You are not obliged to do so. Mr. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u256	Mr President, Mr Rui Afonso has raised a large number of questions and I will try to answer most of them. In my initial speech, I tried to explain — in anticipation of the question which is probably going to be transversal to other parliamentary groups — because the government has not gone any further in this proposal. The government has not gone any further in this proposal, because we are doing this work, between the government and the House, as unfinished. It started in May/June last year and we all hoped that it could still be fulfilled in the previous legislation, which was interrupted prematurely. In fact, we sent to the House the same bill that we had submitted in May 2021, for the same purpose, so that the debate could continue, now being held the hearings that were mandatory, because this process will have-CL- them. But there was a work of many hearings, many hours of discussion with a very relevant set of sector entities, between June and October of last year, which seems to me to be a repository that should be used at work in the specialty, which will be followed. Therefore, the Government could have changed the bill. I could have, indeed, done so, but if you wanted, for a matter of consistency, we wanted the process to come to an end as it began a year ago. On the issues of the lack of coverage that concern the government, ANACOM and, certainly, all parliamentary groups, there are two levels of intervention. One relates to the 5G auction rules, and until 2025 companies that acquired spectrum have increasing obligations, intermediate targets in 2003...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u257	Mr. Secretary of State, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u258	Therefore, the issue of coverage will be addressed in meeting the goals of auction 5G and then—I can answer the other questions, using the response time to the other parliamentary groups—there is a second level that is in line with the competition ANACOM will launch by the end of this year. He said that the public consultation was still in progress, but it was already completed in February and, therefore, by the end of the year, the procedure will be launched to bring very high coverage networks to all regions and areas in the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u259	Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u260	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by saying something not related to this subject. I am very proud to be part of a party that has already had three presidents, all of them able to maintain the essence of what is the party, and to belong to a group that does not have two factions, but, yes, eight factions: eight people who think about their heads, because that is the difference between a party of free people and one-person sects.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u261	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u262	Regarding the specific topic, the current project effectively raises some concerns raised in some of the opinions. In addition to being able to discuss what is effectively transposed, what we are concerned about is what has not been transposed from the directive. Article 7. the directive states that the president of the national regulatory authority is appointed from among persons of recognized professional competence and experience, based on merit, competences, knowledge and experience, following an open and transparent selection process. This Article 7. it meets the project that we submitted about the change to the recruitment process for regulatory entities. We believe that, in order to be able to have good regulators, we need to have many good people available to run them, and in order to have many people, it is important to open up the list of candidates, and that is not necessarily what happens today, in which we have an excessively politicized process, which gives the government too much power in the selection of candidates. This is the principle set out in Article 7. that of the directive, an article which, to which we believe — and can confirm — has not been transposed, what I would like to ask is whether it is confirmed that this part of the directive has not been effectively transposed and, if so, what is the reason why it has not been. I wonder if they are still aligned with the need to have a more open, depoliticized and transparent recruitment process than what exists today. Regarding the NAP bill, we accompany many of the concerns that gave rise to this proposal, but we have some more technical concerns in the part where they talk about zero-rating rates, which allow consumers to access certain services without using the data package. I think that defending net neutrality is a noble thing, since it does not lead to certain limits that end up harming consumers themselves. And there are technical questions for this not possible, since, in terms of costs, it is different for an operator to have a customer who spends 500 MB widely throughout the day, on social networks, Messenger and out there, or to have someone who uses the same 500 MB over half a minute. This makes the costs for the capacity and bandwidth of operators different for consumers of this type, which leads to the use of these zero-rating tariffs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u263	That's not the problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u264	when we exclude zero-rating tariffs, we are, on the one hand, demanding more investment in capacity on the part of operators, and on the other, we risk that all consumers have a price in line with the most intensive use. This is a technical matter which I think is worth discussing in detail.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u265	Mr. Deputies, you have to do the right thing to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u266	I will now finish, Mr President. Therefore, it is a concern, as regards us, legitimate, but I am perfectly available to discuss and exchange information on this subject. The concerns, the concerns we share. On technical matters, I think we can discuss them a little better. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u267	I now give the floor to Mr Rui Tavares of the Free.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u268	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, sometimes there are requests for clarification here that are, in fact, requests for clarification. in this case it is contrary: since I have been informed that the government will have 2 minutes final and that, if you understand it, you can use them to provide clarification, this is an intervention which is a request for clarification. There were several criticisms of this bill that transposes the European directive, including the National Data Protection Commission, consumer protection organisations and even regulatory structures and monitoring the implementation of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. These criticisms are intended to say that there are no deadlines, not even indicative, for the achievement of the objectives set by law, or that the programmatic goals for the defense of people with disabilities are based on indeterminate concepts and therefore will not, in fact, be applied. Since these criticisms have already been made in 2021, and they are repeated now, I would like to know how the Government responds to them and why it has not made a greater effort in the course of this process to monitor and respond to these criticisms in practice by changing the bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u269	For an intervention, Mrs Marcia Passos, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u270	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposal for the electronic communications law returns to our discussion today, but this return does not, unfortunately, bring good news. Despite Mr State Secretary's explanation, what we can see is that he has averaged one year between the presentation of the previous bill and the current one, which we are discussing today, and during this year - I am sorry, Mr State Secretary, with all due respect - the Government seems to have learned nothing. He did not learn anything, because the bill brings exactly the same weaknesses. One of them has to do with privacy in electronic communications, as well as the mercantilization of personal data, something which, as well as the National Data Protection Commission, has never been recognised in the Portuguese legal order and in the European Union. This mercantilization runs counter to the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. these diplomas, necessarily guiding all legislative processes, promote the equality of the human person and the protection of personal data. The Government's bill — no doubt! — ignores these fundamental values, which, of course, the PSD will never accept.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u271	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u272	On the other hand, we note that the proposed law does not guarantee consumer rights, for example, in the event of a complaint of the contract by consumers themselves. Despite the warnings made by DECO and ANACOM themselves, the government presents us with rules that, instead of protecting the consumer, make it more vulnerable to market power and reaffirm loyalty. This was a theme widely discussed in the hearings that took place in the previous legislature. There are several, Mr. Secretary of State, the situations in which this occurs in this bill, which, in the view of the PSD, is highly worrying. There is no automatic compensation for consumers for failure to comply with portability rules in the proposed law. Another example is the lack of an adequate record of complaints and also the lack of a book of electronic complaints. But more than quoting examples, ladies and gentlemen. Members—and could cite numerous examples of what the government did not do well, did not secure, and should be assured—, it should be said that, in our view, the most serious thing is that the Government ignored all the opinions presented in the previous Parliament on Bill No 83 / XIV / 2. the, ignoring, for example, the understandings of ANACOM, ANAFRE ( National Association of Freguesias ), APRITEL ( Association of Electronic Communications Operators ), CNPD, DECO, among others, as well as the contributions that various entities – I will mention some: ANACOM, CIP ( Portuguese Business Confederation ), ADC, DECO, CNPD, APDC ( Portuguese Association for the Development of Communications) – have brought us into different hearings. It speaks of the government's participation in construction, when it disregards all the contributions made in the previous legislation. And he had so much time to present a different bill, considering all these valuable contributions. Mr Secretary of State, it is hours and hours of work done in this House that are valuable contributions that the Government has not considered and, if it had done so, we would have a much more balanced bill today. Actually, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government cannot hide itself in its absolute majority and ignore the work done by the Members of the various parliamentary groups and do not consider, if not all — what we even understand by political options, of course — at least some of the contributions of the various entities and the extensive work that has been produced here. The PSD is, of course, available to work out the diploma in the specialty, but it cannot fail to regret the attitude of this government, which, contrary to what it announces, is showing some signs of absolute power. However, ladies and gentlemen. Members, absolute power is something that does not exist, cannot and must not exist in democracy. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u273	We've got the specialty!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u274	Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the BE Parliamentary Group, is now registered. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u275	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate we are making today is a good example of the failed promises of the various liberalisation processes in such important sectors of the Portuguese economy. Despite the liberalisation effort, the telecommunications market is divided between three companies, who do what they understand well, who turn customers into packages that are impossible to compare, who attach these customers to loyalty programs of which it is impossible to leave, who do not guarantee coverage throughout the territory, as has been said, that exclude people with disabilities, as has been said here, who do not protect their customers' data. All this is the result of the wonder of the liberalisation process, which would protect consumer rights, lower telecommunications prices, ensure better supply, more quality in supply. None of that happened. That is what we have found, and that is what you and the ladies and gentlemen. Members say, that's what DECO says, that's what ANACOM says. Both institutions refer to serious obstacles to mobility between operators, the establishment of Leonine compensations for customers to get rid of contracts, signs of concerted practices on the market and — see only! — an increase in the price of 6, 5 % in 10 years in Portugal when in Europe on average the price of telecommunications has fallen. We do not understand, Mr Secretary of State, the Government's apology. The Government has handed over a bad bill to the Assembly of the Republic in the past. The Assembly of the Republic has done its work. The Government knows the criticisms of the DECO, ANACOM and the various parliamentary groups, had time to improve the bill, did not want to improve it and handed over a bill to the Assembly of the Republic with the same problems, saying that it wants the Assembly of the Republic to do its work, but at the same time says "Please hurry up, because the European Commission 'is on its feet' and we will be fined". Mr Secretary of State, tell us what you want, because if you were in a hurry, you would do the housework and hand over to the Assembly of the Republic a proposal that would solve the problems. If, after all, there is no rush, then I am sure that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will accept the proposals of ANACOM and DECO to mitigate the various problems that have been encountered here.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u276	And go!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u277	What we cannot accept is that a proposal should be maintained in which, and I quote DECO, some of the measures recommended by ANACOM have been deleted, exactly in relation to the protection of users'rights, for the sole benefit of communication operators. That's what DECO writes. We cannot allow a proposal with this opinion and which has not been amended, and the Government has had the opportunity to do so, to pass through the Assembly of the Republic without the necessary amendments. We hope that the Socialist Party will be available to accept them. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u278	Mr Pedro Anastácio of the Socialist Party has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u279	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr Ministers, Mrs and Mrs. Members: As we have seen, we are here discussing the proposal that transposes the European Code of Electronic Communications into the national legal system. This debate had several good things: first, the Left Block told us that the problem is with liberalisation, not telling us, however, whether it is the non-liberalization that responds to the problem; then we had an even more interesting particularity that was this construction that the PSD did.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u280	Good reasoning!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u281	The Government therefore opts for a minimalist transposition, to give more opportunity to all Members of this House to add suggestions to this proposal, and it says that it is available to receive several of the contributions that have been requested and delivered by the various entities, such as CNPD, ANACOM, the Competition Authority, and it also says that it wants to work with all Members and parliamentary groups. The parliamentary groups—some of them are the same, others have caught up, but they were already here—know this work, so hurry. We are confident that you still know what has been done here in the last legislature. It is funny to see that when Parliamentarians are allowed to add proposals, Mrs Marcia Passos and the PSD return with the absolute power of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are talking about the hypocrisy of this sentence and what is the recurrent state of play of the soundbyte for Portuguese television and not a contribution to improving the law of electronic communications, which is what the Socialist Party does, and that was the option that the Government took when bringing this debate and doing so. I would also like to refer to the delay, because it is true that he exists, and it is best not to deny when there are delays, to realize that what exists is no Portuguese exceptionality. Let me therefore say that the delay necessarily has to do with the special technical and legal complexity of the subject, which is well demonstrated by the fact that there are now European Union processes in the Member States of Spain, Croatia, Latvia, Lithuania, Ireland, Poland, Romania, Slovenia and Sweden. This clearly shows that there is no Portuguese exceptionality in this matter. Yes, there was a crisis — it is true that there was already one in the Portuguese state — which added to a political crisis that created a barrier and an additional obstacle to the early transposition. But this should not prevent the debate on this new legal framework for electronic communications and that this work should be resumed, which has already been done in the previous Parliament. Because telecommunications is a fundamental instrument, the main objective should be to implement the strategy for the single digital market in Europe and that is what we are doing here. It is therefore worth noting that the Government has never intended to close the discussion or put a final point on sensitive issues that motivate the most heated debates on the subject of electronic communications, whether as regards loyalty periods, the provision of information by operators to consumers, service packages or even the densification of concepts necessary for the correct application of the law. This option aims to strengthen the capacity and effort of the legal conformation of the national legislator, as wide as possible, and that is what we are doing here. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if the Government followed the different option, what it would do was something different: instead of giving Parliament a real power of conformation, it would refer this House to a power to validate the proposal and not to a power to add contributions. So we all count on all of you. Members, whether the sole representatives of the parties or of the various parliamentary groups, to build and density this framework of electronic communications. Finally, the Socialist Party would like this bill to be able to go down to the committee without a vote to be in depth in the specialty. It is the same as we propose with regard to the NAP initiative, since it has several solutions that are in line with the Government's proposal and which would benefit from specialized work. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u282	Before giving the floor to Mrs Paula Santos, I would ask the Secretary of the Bureau to inform her of the admission of a bill, which will be appreciated, on this agenda. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u283	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, you entered the Bureau, and you were admitted, Bill No. 90 / XV / 1. a (L) — I commend the duty of the institutions to initiate a competitive procedure for the functions performed by the doctors when the contract is concluded.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u284	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u285	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Today we are discussing a proposal which has already been discussed in the Assembly of the Republic, generally in the previous Parliament, and the debate has not been concluded because the legislature has ceased or because the PS wanted the legislature to stop, rather saying. [[PS protests.]] But the question that I would like to put to you in this debate is the following: since a number of hearings have already been initiated in the previous Parliament, including a set of opinions, raising a number of doubts and criticisms, because the government has not taken advantage of this work and has not included it in the proposal that it now brings to the Assembly of the Republic?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u286	Of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u287	The question is that it brings the same proposal, ignoring all the work already done by the Assembly of the Republic. You may well come here and say that you want to have a broad debate on the subject,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u288	You've done it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u289	...but why did you ignore what has already been done? Why was that ignored? That, in fact, is a problem, because this proposal does not respond to the problems of our country. It is a proposal that is more concerned about meeting the European Union, rather than responding to the needs of citizens of our country, who in several regions still do not have a quality service in the telecommunications sector. It is a proposal which transposes a directive, as it has been said, and which is another step forward with the aim of creating the large and liberalised European telecommunications market, whose losses of privatization and liberalisation are in sight: firstly, for citizens, who have a much more expensive and less quality service, but also, secondly, does not guarantee national interest or public interest. Privatisation and liberalisation only benefit the multinationals of the sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u290	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u291	The reality for this sector is that we have private operators that exploit a public good, a public regulator without political accountability, a state that defends private operators and, for citizens, we have higher costs, regions without quality coverage in the area of telecommunications. The Government makes a proposal which, as I have already mentioned, does not take that into account. For the Government, it is more important—and I will open quotes, if possible here in oral form— « the right to competition than to respond to the needs of the people ». They even recognise in their own proposal that there may be such "market failures", but then, before that recognition, they do not take the measures necessary to ensure a quality public service throughout the territory. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in addition to the issues we have already raised, concerns about personal data, which have also been raised and are still not resolved and which remain in a logic of commodification, in fact, are major concerns. With regard to these questions, Mr President, to conclude, it is clear that this proposal does not answer and that the solution cannot be the deepening of this path, but rather the rupture with this model. The solution goes through a universal public service and not through a mechanism, as is said here, to overcome failures. The solution must, in fact, be passed by a public operator to ensure infrastructure and to ensure access to telecommunications to all citizens, throughout the territory, with quality. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u292	To close the debate on behalf of the Government, Mr. State Secretary for Infrastructures, Hugo Mendes, who has two minutes for this purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u293	Thank you very much, Mr President, this time I will try to manage time better. Mrs. PSD Member Márcia Passos, it is a bit strange that we are accused of absolute power when we deliver the same bill that we had submitted when we did not have an absolute majority.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u294	But now they have!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u295	There's a consistency on our side. They may disagree, I realize that there may be a general disagreement between the various banks about the government's strategy, but the government strategy has intended to be consistent. what we cannot accuse ourselves is to try to exercise absolute power when we deliver the same bill as when we did not have an absolute majority. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, there is, from our point of view, no incompatibility between doing a good process in specialty and not excessively dragging this process. I believe that most of the hearings were already held last year for three or four months. Of course, Parliament is free to hear more, but I believe that it has already reached a high level of redundancy on the issues discussed, on the issues that need to be resolved, and we agree that there is no need to resolve them. For some reason, a year ago, we called for the opening of this working group, because the government does not want to hide behind anything. We called for the working group to be set up, precisely so that the entities previously heard would come in the light of the parliamentary debate to present their proposals. Some governments will welcome, others will not, but that is the essence of democracy. Our relationship with the parliamentary groups and, in particular with the Socialist Party's parliamentary group, will be fully available to review some issues, especially consumer rights, in particular the issue, which is quite raised, on the CNPD and the remuneration of the data, which I believe to be the most sensitive and targeted issue by the parliamentary groups. We are fully available to review this provision or, eventually, to eliminate it by showing our entire openness to negotiate and improve this diploma. This diploma came as it came, precisely to be improved. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u296	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. I would like to congratulate Mrs. Minister, Mr. Secretaries, the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We will move on to point 4 of our agenda, which consists in the general assessment of the Bill No. 3 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Alter the Code of Criminal Procedure and Law No 5 / 2002 of 11 January 2002 together with Bill No 86 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Corrects the legislation implementing the National Anti-Corruption Strategy 2020 - 2024 and deepens the guarantees for the protection of complainants and the Bill No 94 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Establishment of the status of the defendant's collaborator and aggravating the penalties applicable to the crimes of corruption provided for in the Criminal Code. For an intervention, you have the floor of Mrs. Minister of Justice, Catarina Sarmento and Castro, who I also welcome. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u297	President of the Assembly of the Republic, Members of Parliament and Members of the European Parliament. Members: Following the approval of the National Anti-Corruption Strategy, the Government submitted a bill to the Assembly of the Republic in order to implement some of the measures formulated in that strategic document and to ensure an effective, effective but also uniform application of legal solutions to the suppression of corruption. in this context, the Act No 94 / 2021 was approved. It follows that even before the entry into force of the same law, different judicial actors have warned the public and political leaders of the practical consequences of some of the provisions of this law, which are visibly causing dysfunctions in the regular functioning of the courts. The proposal now being presented aims at mitigating the consequences for the judicial system, to which some of the amendments introduced by the law of 2021 have led, insufficient to blockades, impediments and constraints for the organization and functioning of criminal justice. One such situation is the result of the new wording of Article 40. that of the Code of Criminal Procedure, since the system of approved impediments has exhausted the possibility of subsequent procedural intervention by the judge who had intervened in the criminal proceedings, at an earlier time. The constant solution of Law No 94 / 2021 intended to be truly guarantistic, ensuring the principle of the impartiality of the judge, but by wishing that it intervenes procedurally free from any restraints or previous judgments on the defendant and / or on the object of the trial, it expanded further and thus thus the anticipated impediments that this new wording could, in practice and within the limit, paralyse or, at least, hinder in much the functioning of the courts. With the increase in the situations of preventing the judges, the probability, for example, of an investigating investigating judge, being definitely prevented from having procedural intervention in the subsequent phases, would significantly increase, which could disorganize the justice system, given the exponential multiplication of replacement of judges, with the foreseeable delay of proceedings, still generating uncertainty about who the judge should be in the pending cases. The scenario would be prospectively more serious in smaller districts, where the number of judges placed is, of course, less and in which, therefore, the indication of unhindered judge would become more difficult. In the current solution, even in dogmatic and procedural interventions perceived as harmless, in which the rights, freedoms and guarantees of the defendant are not necessarily called into question, would create impediment. Moreover, it would be possible, in certain unilateral acts of the procedural subjects, to raise up the intervention of the judge in accordance with Article 40. the, crying, therefore, downstream, in the process, for their impediment. in this context, it was necessary to solve, surgically and with great brevity, the difficulties raised. That is precisely what the Government has come to do by means of this proposal for a law. Thus, on the basis of the issues raised, maintaining by candle the principle of impartiality, while emanating from the accusing structure of the criminal proceedings, which is withdrawn from Article 32. the Constitution, and in compliance with the principle of the natural judge, comes the Government to recover what was its proposal for Article 40. the, in relation to procedural impediments, obsessing the intervention of the judge who has formulated a pre-understanding regarding the criminal responsibility of the defendant, having to verify the existence of strong evidence of the practice of crime, due to the application of the coercion measure of articles 200. the 202. that of the Code of Criminal Procedure or having presided over the instructional debate. Article 40 (3) is also maintained. with this bill, it is proposed that Article 419 (1) and (2) be re-established. the wording before Law No 48 / 2007, becoming part of the conference two Deputy Judges. With this change in the composition of the Court of Appeal, it is ensured, on the one hand, that collegiality is strengthened and, on the other hand, that the president of the section is prevented from integrating all the collectives into the resources of the higher courts with the inevitable consequences that such a solution would lead to the functioning of the sections. In short, this proposal for a law, which was submitted to Parliament as a remedying and urgent measure as soon as early as April 2022, with the entry into office of the new Government, seeks to overcome the difficulties of practical application of Article 40. the Code of Criminal Procedure in force and the interpretative doubts of Article 419. that of the Code of Criminal Procedure, and it also makes other contributions, although some of them are clarifying or harmonizing in detail. The solutions of the proposed law submitted by the Government have already been welcomed in the opinions sent to Parliament by the Supreme Council of the Magistracy and the Order of Advocates, which are publicly available. With the proposed solutions, the Government intends to avoid constraints on the speedy and effective functioning of justice. That's what's proposed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u298	To present the draft law of the NAP, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u299	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : With this legislative amendment, the NAP intends to correct some of the mistakes that have been made in the recent legislative amendment, which aims to be an essential asset — to combat corruption, which is a scourge in our country and which, as we know, costs many billions of euros annually, costing every minute, €34 000. In order for anti-corruption measures to be effective, some amendments must be made with the utmost rigour. Unfortunately, last year, the anti-corruption package we approved here did not only ensure it did not even have counterproductive results, one of the most obvious of which is the regime of impediments which, according to its design, allows to circumvent the principle of the natural judge. Therefore, with this initiative, the NAP intends to correct these errors in the exact terms of the recommendations of the associations representing the judiciary, the Advocates' Order and the Supreme Council of the Magistracy. But we need to go further and, in our view, we can take this opportunity to correct the complainant's protection regime. It is not conceivable that the narrow concept of infringement of European legislation should be adopted, leaving out the vast majority of non-Community national legislation. Therefore, with this initiative, we want to ensure a broad concept of denunciation that includes any violation of the law, whether it is a Community source or not. One thing is certain: there is a crime that will certainly not remind the complainant or the offender whether or not they are under Community law or not. This is a solution that follows what was proposed by the Supreme Council of the Public Ministry and which approaches the legislation adopted in the transposition of the directive by countries such as Denmark, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta and Sweden. It is not conceivable that complainants without employment or outside the organization are not protected by legislation, avoiding so-called "SLAPP" processes, strategic lawsuit against public participation, that is, there is a coercion for the withdrawal of complaints, particularly through actions in court, such as the paradigmatic case of Arlindo Marques, the "Texo's guardian", who, unfortunately, has already seen the proceedings filed against them. Finally, we want to ensure that, as the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) is able to provide protection for complainants, including activists, against these types of actions and that these amendments to the complainant's protection regime provide guarantees and effectiveness to the objective of creating this law itself so that it will have greater adherence to reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u300	To present the bill of arrival, Mr. André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u301	Madam President, Minister of Justice, I would like to begin by welcoming you and telling you that, at the same time as I present the draft law of the Arrival, I will ask you a few questions. Since the entry into force of the amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, it is known that civil associations and judges, in addition to the Order of Advocates, have been several to point out criticisms of what had been approved. Last year, the Government had promised a strategy of progress in the context of award-winning collaboration, but that is not what we found in the bill. We have found a way of bypassing the natural judge, who has brought enormous problems to justice and who even seems to have been made so that certain cases are not attributed to certain judges, as we know. The status of the alleged collaborator is, at the same time, or must be, a guarantee for those who cooperate and are effective in justice, because it ensures that those who cooperate in detection, in the aid of investigation to such serious crimes, have the status effectively guaranteed and protected. One of the questions that must be raised is when we formalize this pre-emptive collaboration. In our view, it must be in the investigation phase, through the approval of the judicial authority, as is done in very good examples throughout the world, in the United States, England, Japan and even Brazil. Madam Minister, allow me to ask the question about certain aspects of this reform in particular and which I think deserve reflection. What has been done, in terms of preventing the judges, has only brought more confusion to the courts, which, as the Minister has acknowledged, is something that is urgent to change. by keeping Article 40 ( 3 ) in force either on the initiative of the NAP, or on the initiative of the Government. the, question: should the principle of impartiality of the judge be asked to extract a certificate? That is what is at stake right now. when we say that impartiality is called into question, we say that, when a certificate is extracted, our judgment is already affected or, as Mrs. Minister said, the pre-understanding of the process. This has nothing to do with neutrality, it has brought more chaos and more disorganization to the courts. We propose rules such as Article 419 ( 2 ). the, with regard to the composition of the court, that of Article 432. the, which limits the appeal process, and even Article 40 ( 3 ). they are revoked. Article 40 ( 3 ). it is maintained both in the NAP project and in the Government proposal and, of all judicial operators, it is unanimous the criticism that it has only generated more confusion and an unfounded suspicion about judges who are not justified and that this government has sought to deepen.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u302	For an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz of the Liberal Initiative has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u303	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister and other members of the Government : The bill we are discussing today arises from a need to correct the errors resulting from amendments to Law No 94 / 2021 of 21 December, which implemented proposals made in the National Anti-Corruption Strategy 2020 - 2024. When adopting these amendments, as you will well recall, and has already been mentioned here, the associations representing the judiciary, the Advocates' Order and the higher council have warned of the consequences that the amendments to Article 40. that of the Code of Criminal Procedure would lead, in particular, to the creation of successive impediments to the courts of instruction, leading to paralysed proceedings and an increase in the risk of prescribing proceedings. We are therefore very pleased to see that the Government, at least on this subject, has been open to hearing the external entities who have pointed out the failures and consequences of speeding up legislation and has taken due diligence to correct the error in good time. Now, the Liberal Initiative advocates faster, more accessible, more independent and more focused justice, among many others, in the fight against corruption. These values are even more relevant when justice in Portugal goes through a phase of discrediting, while in our society it begins to reign a feeling of impunity, which undoubtedly affects the confidence of citizens in the state and in justice, thereby weakening our democracy. The PS and this government defend a strong and interventional state, almost omnipresent in the lives of all of us. However, in this battle for omnipresence, they end up losing focus and not ensuring what is really required, safeguarding a speedy, predictable, transparent and effective justice. We in the Liberal Initiative defend a minimal state, but more efficient and focused on its essential functions. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u304	For an intervention, Mrs Mónica Quintela, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u305	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate, in order to be able to take place, presupposes prior knowledge of the legal standards and diplomas to which they belong. Having said that, Law No 94 / 2021 resulted in a replacement text submitted by PS and PSD, which aimed to amend several legal diplomas in the context of the continuation of the National Anti-Corruption Strategy. Significant changes have been made to the justice system. It must be said, and it is very important, that the replacement text resulted from the constant debate and communication between the Ministry of Justice, with, at this time, Minister Van Dunem, PS and PSD for all and each of the standards adopted, the final text being the consensus between the three speakers. It is therefore false that the former Minister of Justice did not approve all the rules of the legal diploma which constituted Law No 94 / 2021.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u306	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u307	Following the demands made by representatives of the professional corporations, in particular with regard to the rules on the impediments of the judges—and the Minister, as she said, was welcomed by many of these representations, which she does not admire because the Government's proposal is the proposal of the Supreme Council of the Magistracy — the Government, with a view to changing these standards and now merits consideration of the rules that Mrs Minister spoke about here, articles 40. is 419. that of the Code of Criminal Procedure, it must be said that it is with satisfaction and surprise that we see the amendment proposed to Article 419. the, raising from one to two the number of adjudicated judges who participate in the conference, reprising the wording before Law No. 48 / 2007, and it was worth not having previously agreed to this. We are pleased to see the recognition of the need to strengthen collegiality in the composition of collective courts of appeal in criminal proceedings, as is the case in civil proceedings. We are surprised to see, despite the constant complaints of the lack of judges, there is no possibility of increasing the number of such judges in the trial of appeals. by sight, after all, there is no lack of judges. Therefore, the ratio of the current article 419. the, which is in force, had on the basis of the obligation of the judge of the section to direct and intervene when the appeals are tried, either in conference or in hearing - it is necessary to know the difference! — by voting only in cases of dismissal. In the current article 419. the only difference is that the president always goes to vote, thus ensuring collegiality without having to intervene other judges. Nevertheless, the PSD agrees that the strengthening of collegiality is done with the introduction of another deputy judge, and we welcome that there is this number of judges. Different things can no longer be said about the short re-stination of the preceding Article 40. that of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which enshrines the impediments of the judges. Mr. Minister, the judge must be impartial. If, at a stage prior to the trial or to decide on any appeal or a request for review, the judge had interventions in the proceedings involving contacting the facts in it or the evidence produced will no longer be able to exceed and cease to bear in mind the judgment which he necessarily had to make. It is an inexorable water brand that irremediably compromises its impartiality. The trial, Mrs. Minister, is the central stage of the criminal trial and must be made before a judge other than the one who has known the investigation phases and the stages of instruction. That's what makes sure the judge isn't contaminated...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u308	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u309	... for all the information collected during the investigation and which ensures its impartiality and exemption. All proof must be produced in a discussion and trial hearing and with respect to the principle of contradiction before an impartial judge. We all have a right to that. And you cannot take the argument that the impediments of the judges will disorganize the courts, Mrs Minister, from the outset, because a justice system, in a true state of democratic law, cannot be afraid of disorganizing itself, in the words of the Government, when the cause is the need for impartial judges. It is agreed that the wording of Article 40. the need for mold corrections to prevent the biased and distorted interpretations that have been made by many of the professional actors, and is being interpreted in the sense that any act of the judge, though unknown and of mere dossier, can cause their future impediment, and that is not what the legislator intended. That was not the spirit of the legislator, but rather the spirit of ensuring the full impartiality of the judge. Finally, the Government also notes that the elimination of the limit of the number of witnesses was a delay in drafting and that the current Article 311 needs to be corrected. o-B of the Code of Criminal Procedure. It wasn't, Mrs. Minister! That's not true! It wasn't a writing lapse. The elimination of the limit of 20 witnesses resulted in a concrete proposal from the PS...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u310	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u311	...with which the PSD disagreed, but which was approved. We have to tell the truth! I conclude by saying that the PSD is available to correct and clarify what is necessary, respecting the unanimous spirit that it chaired the legislator who approved Law No 94 / 2002. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u312	For an intervention, Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u313	Mr President, Mr Ministers, Mrs and Mrs. Members: When, on 25. the time of past legislation, PS and PSD agreed to replace the respective draft amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, in the context of the fight against corruption, we warned of the danger of making mistakes that are frequent in legislative texts elaborated in counter-relosion. Clearly, legislative initiatives with such implications are not, as a rule, approved without a set of hearings, including the senior councils and the magistrates' unions, the Advocates' Order, as well as other specialists. With regard to amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, this did not happen. With the dissolution of the Assembly of the Republic, the PS and the PSD agreed to a draft for it to be voted on before the end of the legislature. This work was worthwhile and we do not criticize that it has been done. In fact, it was therefore possible to eliminate some proposals contained in the Government's proposal which we directly disagreed with, such as the approximations in the field of premium law to institutes, such as the so-called prized infringement, whose perversity is demonstrated worldwide. However, although the CFP has followed the approved text, it does not cease to alert to the dangers of the last hour. And we made vows not to happen what actually happened. A few days after the publication of Law No 94 / 2021, the president of the Association of Trade Unions of the Portuguese Judges warned in the Public Journal that the increase in the situations of preventing judges from participating in the investigation and trial of criminal proceedings would create any intervention by a judge in a phase of inquiry, however harmless it would prevent them from taking part in later stages, especially in the trial. The separation between the judge of instruction and the judge of judgment must, yes, be preserved. It is a basic principle of our criminal procedural law, but the exaggeration in the definition of preventative acts has proved counterproductive and has led the Government to present the bill today under discussion. And he did well, but in the name of a practice known as « now», he used to propose other on-the-spot corrections to the Code of Criminal Procedure, making this proposal a sort of collection of blacksmith erratas committed in seven successive amendments to the criminal procedural law. We'll generally follow the bill, but we'll let it go again. Let us make the necessary hearings so that no amendment will be approved worse than the sonnet. On the other hand, the other projects under discussion today take advantage of the drag to introduce other aspects which appear to us to be dislocated from the object of the agenda and which contain solutions that we do not follow, particularly in the field of premium law. Finally, I would like to say that the CFP does not reject careful legal solutions, such as those already enshrined in Portuguese law, but does not follow any leads that lead to the practical annulment of the principle of the legality of criminal action and that make the exercise of criminal action in a kind of business where some criminals see their crimes being punished for the exchange of criminal offences negotiated with the authority that may perhaps be more interested in accusing without having to obtain evidence than in applying justice. Concerns about the efficiency of criminal investigation are fair, but they cannot justify everything, especially when it is intended to lead to the denial of the idea of justice itself. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u314	For an intervention, Mr Francisco Pereira de Oliveira, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u315	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, a little clarification regarding Mr Ventura's intervention on the certitudes. If you read Article 40 correctly. , Mr, the number referred to concerns only two articles, 359. o is 360. the, and therefore not all the situations contained in the Criminal Code or the Code of Criminal Procedure. But with regard to this situation, the three initiatives we have in the debate relate to the fight against corruption, which is also very expensive to all of us in this House, and in particular to the coming. It is a matter whose political-criminal relevance we all recognize, as I say. The NAP bill has a first part similar to the government bill that was submitted more than a month earlier, but it adds some solutions related to the complainant's status. The central idea is to prevent the complainant from being subjected to judicial proceedings, particularly through defamation, but the initiative has a real difficulty: it seems to be based on the presumption that anyone who denounces the truth and who is denounced has always practiced a crime. We have doubts that this is a reasonable solution and we do not understand how this regime would relate to the crime of slanderous denunciation provided for in the Criminal Code. The draft law of the Arrival aims to create a system of award-winning delation inspired by the Brazilian model — collaboration agreements at the investigation stage — and wants to aggravate the penalties for corruption. Nothing new, therefore, in view of what has already been defended in the previous legislature. This project also disregards the novelties brought by the anti-corruption package last December and the proposed solutions seem contradictory to those that already exist and much less efficient. It remains to be looked at the proposed law submitted by the Government, which aims to amend some of the criminal procedural solutions adopted last November, and, register, unanimously. The most significant is the worsening of the impediments of the judges in Article 40. the Code of Criminal Procedure. I think we all recognize the importance of the existence of impediments. They serve to ensure the impartiality of the judge who decides and this impartiality is favored whenever the judge of the trial does not intervene in a relevant way at previous stages of the trial. The ideal is that the judge who decides is a blank page that will be filled only with the evidence produced in the trial hearing. But it is also understandable that a new Executive will make its own options in matters which require an assessment of the available resources, in particular the number of judges we have and the training capacity of the CEJ ( Centre for Judicial Studies ). In addition to this amendment, it is clear — and well — the collegiality rule of the decisions of the courts of the relationship, options are made on who represents the legal person in the proceedings and rules on evidence for prosecution and defense are parifiable. There is an aspect that must be emphasized and which may be understood by both naive catastropheists and opportunistic catastropheists, provided they are available to look more closely at the anti-corruption package approved last November. What we have unanimously approved of the present, I reaffirm, has a dimension perhaps still little studied. We will alter many dozens of articles spread by such vital laws as the Criminal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure or the Code of Commercial Societies, and because of that — because we chose to do what we should when the legislation was interrupted and it was so easy to make excuses for not doing anything — we became equipped with answers that we had not had a year ago. Examples of what we have today and before we had not: politicians convicted of corruption may be prevented from being elected or appointed for public office for a period of up to 10 years; a company that is brought before a corruption process may be subject to a coercion measure that prevents it from taking part in public contests or receiving allowances; someone who commits a crime of corruption and who denounces it more than 30 days later may be released for judicial decision, but only if the illicit act of the market has not already been practised; and managers and managers of commercial companies who violate certain duties can be sentenced to sufficiently dissuasive imprisonment. At the end of the past legislature we chose not to lower our arms in the fight against corruption and that is why all these new answers exist — and many others that I do not have time to mention now.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u316	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u317	We do not use the speech of the scourge of corruption to achieve democracy and the rule of law. We really want to fight corruption and, for that purpose, we will continue to improve the instruments we have available and that, over the last few decades, have been mostly proposed, I reaffirm, by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u318	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u319	Mr President, Mr Ministers, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The Free House, of course, welcomes all the proposals that are to make our justice faster, not only in the interest of those who need answers from the justice system, but also in the interests of the country as a whole, in particular the area of the economy that needs faster justice to enable us to achieve higher levels of productivity and to qualify it. But the reasons for my speech are, above all, to welcome the NAP initiative, because it has helped us clarify something that is often lost, whether in the process of transposition of European law into national law or in initiatives to extend the rights we enjoy as European citizens, and which we often think we have and end up not in the internal order of the Member States. This is the case with the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, which has 50 wonderful articles which are emptied by Article 51. the, which tells us that those articles do not apply in the internal order of the Member States. This is also the case with the legislation concerning the complainants, in which the complainants are protected when they report crimes committed in the light of European law, but which are not obliged to know whether that crime also violates, violates or ceases to violate national law. We welcome the clarification that the text of the NAP comes to introduce and we will gladly follow the work in committee of that text, as well as that of the other initiatives, because we believe that there is an important gap in our right.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u320	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u321	Mr President, Mr Ministers, Mrs and Mrs. Members: Normally, when you get to a house, the first obligation is to arrange it and make it like so that we can work. In a way, that is what happens to this legislative initiative, because this is not really a bill, it is the regulation of the law that was not well arranged at the end of the past legislature. Therefore, we realized that none of the interventions dealt with the serious content of the project. They all discussed more what we had discussed last November than the content in question of the bill that Mrs Minister brought here. I will finish this quickly: the proposals that bring about legal amendment are more or less obvious, since there was a dispute on the part of the judicial officers, in particular the judges, who demonstrated that some of them were absolutely impracticable. They grasped values so draconian, so draconian, that they denied the most fundamental value, which is the right to access to justice, because they made justice in our country impracticable. From that point of view, we follow this claim, we have no further remedy than that which, in fact, the law needed to be corrected. We quickly hope that this will happen. But there is more than this and, in terms of setting up the house, there are some notes that we should leave and I believe that they are also reflected in how there were reactions to this legislation and how the government had to react so quickly with a legislative initiative. It is, in fact, that people are lacking in justice. There are no judges, there are no judges, there are no magistrates to be able to give speed, speed and justice to the justice of our country. in this perspective, this bill corrects the legal problems of the impediments that have already been listed, but does not reinforce this part of the human component of Portuguese justice. We have been discussing the State budget for 2022 for weeks, and it would also not respond to this matter in the way that the country needs. I therefore finish my speech with this challenge, Mrs Minister : by setting up the house, and by doing so now in a legislature that will be of the longest of our democracy, the obligation of the Government and the Minister is to leave the justice better than he has found it, to leave the house more tidy than he has found it. It will not be very difficult when it comes to ensuring the effectiveness of justice, because, in fact, if there is something that the Portuguese feel right now, they have too far away, too expensive and too slow justice. And any one of these "too many" makes justice too unfair. I believe that there is a lot here where the Minister may begin to build the house, in particular by strengthening her human resources. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u322	Mr Andre Ventura, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u323	Madam President: I would like to respond to the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group and also to the Minister. Mr President, it was not enough either the NAP or the NAP that brought this amendment. It was the government! Therefore, when he says that 'the amendments we have made to recent legislation are still little studied', he suggests that it was the other parliamentary groups who wanted to discuss this, but it was the PS and the government who wanted to discuss this issue, recognizing the mistakes they made. And, Mr President, I would like to tell you this: I do not know whether the awarding is demagogy or opportunism, but I can tell you that in several countries everything has worked much better than here. And I can also tell you something else: there is probably no country where there is premium delation, except in a country that is very expensive to socialists, that is Brazil, and probably in no other one we have a Prime Minister eight years ago waiting to be judged for corruption against Portugal. That is that there is no other country where there is an award! [[Congrats from the CH.]] So, honourable Member, come to Parliament and give us all a moral lesson, saying « we, the PS, are the champions of the fight against corruption! », if it's not to laugh, it's to cry! If this isn't about laughing, it's something to cry about. Mr President, I am sorry, but you are an old Prime Minister who shames us all, including here, in this House and in this democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u324	But what does that have to do with legislation? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u325	So let me tell you this, Mr President: we have to have a strategy and what we have seen so far is that this has not worked. The government has promised a strategy of award-winning delation, of premium combat, and is now hiding itself, saying that there are already remnants of this in the Criminal Code. No country fights corruption as well as England and the United States and, in these two cases, we have two good examples of rewarding collaboration. And, yes, Mr President, we have examples of award-winning collaboration that work. In Italy, much of the corruption eliminated was through the award-winning delation — the mafia was overthrown by the award-winning delation. But what you want is to keep this system of nothing, of 'no', of a great confusion that, when it comes to the end, acquits everyone and leaves everyone out when they have committed crimes against Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u326	The United States is not Portugal!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u327	We will move on to the closing stage of the debate and, to this end, has the floor of Mrs. Justice, Catarina Sarmento and Castro.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u328	Mr Vice-President, the amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure, which was adopted in this House in December 2021, was a major change and a serious work done. Through this, it was possible to improve our legal system. Still, some imperfections — some of them in the background — have been detected that needed to be corrected. That is what was intended to be done with this bill. What we have been asked for was a solution, an urgent intervention, and what we have done urgently was to establish restorative measures and to provide for the speedy and effective functioning of justice. That is what the Government has done, and that is what this bill is intended for. Therefore, by hearing — as we have always heard and will continue to listen — the various actors of the system, the Government quickly presented to the Assembly of the Republic the measures it considered necessary to repair some of these imperfections, some of these issues which, in fact, were detrimental to the regular functioning of justice. This is what the Government came to bring to the Assembly of the Republic, this set of measures which are intended to be implemented urgently and, of course, to hear all the comments made here, as well as those made by the actors outside. This is a mark of this government, it will continue to be a mark of this government. We will continue to invest in justice and will strengthen our attention to justice. The proof of this is that we are dealing with these issues today that we have given maximum speed. We came here to offer solutions, not to discuss the problems or what was at the root of what makes us here. What moved us and what made us here today was to bring solutions. Therefore, the Government is bringing solutions to the Assembly of the Republic so that we can make progress in combating corruption and preventing corruption. It was, above all, this measure that was behind the bill that had already been adopted in December. We therefore have before us and before the Assembly of the Republic at the moment, to the consideration of the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, a proposal for a law which has quickly and expeditiously sought to bring to justice what it needs: a prompt, effective and appropriate response. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u329	I say goodbye to the Ministers and we turn to point five, to the assessment of Petition No 18 / XIV / 1. a ( Ana Sofia Loureiro Marques ) — Legalization of prostitution in Portugal and / or decriminalization of lenocinium, provided it is not by coercion. I take this opportunity to inform you that you are attending not only representatives of the subscribers of this petition but also of Petition No 179 / XIV / 2. a ( Movement 8 %) — For an urgent investment in science in Portugal, which is contained in the following point and of which are subscribers Luisa Lopes and Armando Miguel Remondes. For an intervention, Mrs Lina Lopes, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u330	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are discussing the petition, with 4004 signatures, of the initiative of Ana Sofia Loureiro Marques, first subscriber, that I comply. I want to start by stressing the courage to bring this petition to the House of Democracy, because speaking in prostitution is talking about a subject with high complexity, which has been studied by the academy, looking for ways to address, describe and understand this complex topic. The word "prostitution" is female, but prostitution does not only affect women, it also affects children, young people and men. Prostitution, because it is related to sexual issues, causes controversy and adverse reactions, and factual data are often distorted, as a result of prejudices, or misunderstood, the result of personal or moral convictions. It is up to us in this House to discuss this matter in a serious and objective way. Prostitution can be characterized in a somewhat simplistic way, such as the act or activity of offering sexual services to exchange payment. If we consider the various studies on prostitution, we can say that there are two different systems in the approach to the problem: the abolitionist system, implemented in several countries of Europe, in which prostitution, or part thereof, is criminalized, whether in the view of those who use it, of those who practice or encourage it, and the regulatory system, in which prostitution is not criminalized, but regulated as economic activity, a system commonly known as legalization or liberalization of prostitution, either in the perspective of the user or in the perspective of the practitioner. In 1999, in Sweden, the one who became known as the "Nordic model" — which partially altered the abolitionist model, in which the sale of sexual services is permitted but its purchase is punishable, both criminally and counter-orderly. In Europe, the solutions are very divided: from 41 countries analyzed, only in 8 countries prostitution is legalized and properly regulated. This is the case, for example, with Germany, Austria and the Netherlands. in other countries there is a total legal void and prostitution is not punished or regulated. This is what happens, for example, in Spain, Italy and the Czech Republic. On the other hand, there are countries that prohibit prostitution, such as Croatia, Moldova or Ukraine. The Nordic model, which began in Sweden in 1999, has been gaining ground and is already being applied in countries such as France, Iceland or Norway. In Portugal, in the framework of the Penal Code, Article 169. the, concerning lenocinium, provides a prison sentence for « who, professionally or with a profit purpose, promotes, favours or facilitates the exercise by another person of prostitution ». Article 165. the same Code penalizes the lenocination of minors with a prison sentence. I would also like to point out that in the previous legislation they have entered the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, in addition to this petition for the legalization of prostitution, a bill that advocates the implementation of a model to strengthen the protection of persons in prostitution and two draft resolutions that aim to protect the dignity and guarantee the fundamental rights of all persons who practice prostitution, along with measures to prevent and combat their exploitation. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The phenomenon of prostitution has always existed, and will not disappear, but has been the subject of uniform and consistent legal treatment. To talk about prostitution is to talk about a topic with a high complexity, a human rights issue that affects, above all, women, but also affects children, young people and men. It is essential not to forget the opportunity that must be given to those who have prostituted themselves to be able to leave and abandon this activity. Data indicate that 9 out of every 10 people, if they could, were out of prostitution. Therefore, any measure should include and include programmes that allow and help to get out of prostitution in a dignified way. The data also tell us that about 90 % of prostitution in Portugal is carried out by foreign persons in an illegal situation. Here too, there is great work to be done by the competent authorities, especially in preventing trafficking in human beings. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a matter which concerns everyone and everyone and which must be seriously discussed, because it is a matter of human rights and we must not forget that we will always have to create conditions for those who want to go out and help those who want to continue to pursue activity, giving them tools to understand that their personal dignity may be threatened. The PSD is available to study legislative changes in the strengthening of means to combat forced prostitution. We are open to work in order to create additional measures to protect and safeguard the health and safety of those who are engaged in prostitution. However, the PSD expresses reservations about the decriminalization of lenocinium, if it leads to normalization of enrichment or professionalization of those who live at the expense of foreign prostitution. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u331	For an intervention, Mrs Joana Sá Pereira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u332	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This petition recovers the subject of decriminalization of the lenocinium in which there is no coercion of the person who has prostituted himself and the need for regulation of prostitution. It is a complex matter and it is a question that does not have simple answers, because it makes us look at the other parts of the moon, difficult lives and debates about what freedom and lack of it is. The exercise of prostitution is not considered a crime in Portugal. Article 169. the Criminal Code only criminalizes those « professionally, or with a profit purpose, to encourage, encourage or facilitate the exercise by another person of prostitution ». As Inês Ferreira Leite writes, « since 1962 that the prostitution exercise lives underground in Portugal, although in 1982, the conduct of the prostitute and the client has been decriminalized. The prostitute is not punished, but anyone who contributes to the exercise of prostitution—wrong or well, with good or bad intentions—organizing the work, providing a place, aggregating or controlling customers, is subject to penalty’. But it is this tenuous line between freedom and autonomy of the will of those who have prostituted themselves that has brought complexity to this debate. There are, therefore, aspects in this petition that deserve us the greatest disagreement, namely the requirement of the minimum age of 21 years for the exercise of the activity and the criminalization of the use of prostitution services under this age, which would throw at an incomprehensible marginality and risk; but also the requirement of a certificate for the profession to which sexual services are provided, without, for example, requiring the conduct of medical examinations to which such services are used. We strengthen our determined fight against prostitution of people forced into this practice. We strengthen our fight against the phenomena of trafficking and sexual exploitation. But we also consider it important to combat the causes of prostitution, allowing us to identify the factors of poverty and social exclusion which, despite the seemingly free option, reveal a situation of dependence or even economic despair that push this way. There are, therefore, at least three possible views on this subject that have been consolidated between us. First, those who defend more incrimination, extending it to those who resort to these practices, which we categorically reject; secondly, those who defend the decriminalization of lenocinium without coercion; and thirdly those who defend the effective regulation of activity. There are two essential points for us: we cannot accept that we look at women and men who are engaged in this activity as engaging in deviant sexual behavior and we must consider how best to respond to the issues of public health and social protection of those who prostitute themselves. We recognize that, here, the regulation of the activity could give a satisfactory answer: it would serve as a way to promote the health of those who prostitute themselves and to encourage safe practices in performing sexual activity, but would also ensure adequate social protection to those who are engaged in the activity, allowing their integration into public social security and health systems. by incriminating behaviors related to the use of third parties, the truth is that the activity of these professionals is also being classified as something undesirable and that must be eliminated from society. As has already been said, and helping me again with the punishment of Inês Ferreira Leite, by involving the exercise of prostitution in a clandestine redoma, criminalizing all the spheres of contact with it, the right promotes an effect of contamination of lawlessness, which, while apparently leaving out the person who has become a prostitute, ends up extending to it, marking it with its effects of exclusion from society. It is also known that the Constitutional Court's position on this subject has evolved. Judgment of the Constitutional Court No 134 / 2020, which was pronounced by the unconstitutionality of the criminalization of simple lenocinium, very clearly states that «the current criminal norm restricts a right(to freedom) on behalf of another (to sexual freedom) that may have not been placed in concrete danger and even been freely exercised by its holder, in which there is therefore no lack of criminal protection ». I think there is a point where all these different visions can be found: that of having a new paradigm, centered on the protection of the people who exercise this activity. In this case, human rights are even involved. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u333	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u334	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating not only the petitioners, but also the representatives of the various women's rights associations, who accompany us today, and commend them for the work they have done in the intransigent defense of their rights. The petition brought to us calls for a complex issue of human rights, human dignity, especially in the structural dimension of prostitution, when we speak of the majority of these women, who are in a condition of social vulnerability, especially in situations of poverty. We know that there are people who are in prostitution by their own will, but we cannot ignore what they tell us, in a loud way, the numbers and the portrait of prostitution and poverty in our country, who still have a mostly feminine face, a face of poverty, with family dependents in charge. That is why the answers that our legal order must give cannot be hasty responses, that remain on a path between everything and nothing, between regulation and abolitionism, when, between these two paths, there is a means of consensus, which can and should be done, in particular with social protection programmes, either from the point of view of access to housing and health, or from the point of view of the EXIT programmes, which the NAP has already presented, in the budget of the State, and in this Assembly of the Republic. We are talking about a dimension of the value of life and therefore we cannot follow, in any way, the decriminalization of lenocinium, because we can never agree that someone is acting on behalf of another's body and sex, for more than once we know that sexual trafficking is a reality not only of our country, which affects more than 42 million women and girls who are in prostitution. As was also mentioned, marginalize or throw into the vulnerability more women or girls by age group...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u335	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u336	I am indeed concluding, Madam President. Stabilisation of an age group would be to take a very worrying step back on the rights of girls and women. For that course, it certainly should not be the Assembly of the Republic to contribute.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u337	For an intervention, Mrs Joana Mortágua of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u338	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block does not present a legislative proposal in the context of the discussion of this petition. We are not, in fact, in accordance with the terms with which this petition addresses the debate on the regulation of prostitution, which does not mean that we are quitting this debate or that this debate is not necessary in society. Prostitution is a phenomenon that is not exclusively female and heterosexual, but where the sale of sexual services of women or men prevails. We know that it is the patriarchal, capitalist and racist social structure that determines to a large extent who does sexual work and under what conditions it does. We also know that it is the same system of exploitation and oppression that determines who has the power to buy. In the economy and society, there are no empty situations of power relations. I want to begin by explaining why we are far from the content of this petition, of course, its title: « Legalization of Prostitution in Portugal and / or Decriminalization of Lenocinium, provided it is not by coercion ». They're different things. In Portugal prostitution is not an illegal activity, according to the Penal Code, which is not allowed, however, to a third party to profit from it. Thus, organized prostitution is prohibited through the known crime of lenocinium. The criminal type in question involves the conduct of, professionally or for profit, encouraging, favouring or facilitating the exercise by another person of prostitution. It is punished with a penalty of 6 months up to 5 years and then aggravated, in conditions of particular violence or if there is a vulnerability or a relationship of dependence on the victim in relation to its explorer. The end of lenocinium by itself would make the existence of a sexual service patronage legal, which calls into question the autonomy of people, especially women, who are engaged in the provision of sexual services. You can accept or refuse customers, define which services are, choose, interrupt or cancel a service, you have to depend solely and exclusively on the decision of the sexual service provider. It may even admit the revision of the concept of lenocinium, within the framework of future regulation of prostitution, the objective of this concept is to protect sexual freedom of all people, so this review will have to take into account the situations in which sexual freedom is not at issue. What we will not agree with, under any circumstances, is that an activity that should be of the sole personal decision of each person becomes a market for sexual exploitation, with the objective of profit, and that is where this petition ends up walking. What I wanted to make clear is the position of the Left Block on the debate we are now beginning: it is that, as we do not believe in prohibitionist models, which increase the risks for sex workers, who throw them into clandestineness, which impose on them the burden of moral judgment for their activity, making it increasingly dangerous, we do not accept regulatory models made by any employer who explores sexual work outside. Therefore, any regulation on prostitution must be made in the interests of workers and sex workers and must have as its centre respect for their sexual self-determination and social protection. Finally, I would like to greet the petitioner, because this is the beginning of a debate and it was thanks to this petition that we started here. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u339	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Matias of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u340	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the petitioners, by bringing this subject to debate. As has been said so many times, in fact, we are not discussing an easy issue. This is a sensitive subject, because, when we talk about prostitution, we are talking about the lives of specific people, we are talking about human stories and personal paths. Therefore, the first statement that must be made is that human life is always a good thing. And it was never so necessary to state here, in this House, that all human life is worthy and that respect for the dignity of human life can never be violated at any stage, instant or circumstance of the existence of a person, from his conception to natural death. [[Congrats from the CH.]] On the subject in question, the European Parliament tells us that decriminalizing the sex industry and lenocinium does not end with the vulnerability of those who have prostituted themselves. On the contrary, looking at countries that have moved in this direction, there has been market growth, increased demand, an increase in the number of women and children who are victims of abuse and an increase in human trafficking. The European Parliament also states in its resolution that prostitution attacks human dignity because it reduces intimacy to a monetary value, as if the human person could be reduced to an object or commodity. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u341	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue we are discussing here today does not stop children, men and young people, but mainly affects women. We are told that the people involved in the prostitution system are mostly people who, throughout their lives, have encountered difficulties in their education and career. They are people who have been exposed in their past to situations of violence and who often continue to be in the context of their action. They are people who enter or remain in the prostitution system due to situations of poverty and lack of financial conditions. Here, in Spain, studies say that 95% of the women who prostitute would choose another alternative. I repeat, 95% of the people in this system would leave if they had another alternative. Therefore, what has to be said at this time is that the State has failed each woman who failed to complete her studies, each woman who, throughout her life, has been exposed to situations of violence. The State has failed each woman who failed to join the professional market. The State has failed each woman who finds on this path the only viable and profitable option to support her family. [[Congrats from the CH.]] This state continues to fail every young person entering this system, because it needs to pay the tips of college and because it aims to find better living conditions. [[Exactly! All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u342	And because today is Child Day, I could not fail to emphasize that this State fails each child or young person who sees their stolen innocence. Yes, I speak of children, because the average age of entry into prostitution is 14 years old, I repeat, 14 years old!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u343	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u344	In the face of all this, I could not fail to stress the inconsistency of some people in this House, who say to combat the objectification of women, but now close their eyes to a system where women are categorized and more or less valued by their age, race, appearance and physical characteristics. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Let it be clear that the finger that we have pointed out is to this incoherent political class and, above all, to that class that the best that I have been able to do, over the past few decades, has been distributing misery. Portugal is a country with 2 million poor people. This is the socialism we have,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u345	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u346	...the one who leveles us down and pushes the citizen to situations from which he wants to leave. [[Congrats from the CH.]] So the questions that I leave are the following: goes the rule of law, this state so caretaker in so many matters, continue to resign itself from its functions and limit itself to tax this quite lucrative activity, who knows, 23 %, to continue to feed the fats of this socialist State? Oh, my God! Will there be a sincere commitment to combat human trafficking and sexual slavery networks? It is that data tells us that we are walking in the exact opposite direction. In conclusion, I say that if the data tell us that most people would abandon prostitution through alternatives, what we should be discussing here today were the efforts to build these alternatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u347	And what are they? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u348	What we should do here today was recognize that the State has done little for these people and that most of the answers they find, unfortunately, are only civil society.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u349	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u350	I shall conclude, Madam President. So today we should say here that these organizations need more means of action, because our efforts must be in the construction of exit programmes, in the reintegration of these young people and women into society and in the construction of new ways, not in the condemnation of exclusive paths. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u351	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u352	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP defends the end of all forms of violence against women, including exploitation in prostitution. Exploitation in prostitution must be fully recognized as a violation of fundamental rights, because it is a form of extreme violence and oppression over prostituted women, which attacks the dignity and rights of all women. Exploitation in prostitution is a form of slavery that imposes a spiral without exit, denying freedom, autonomy and dignity to women. The legislation of our country does not criminalize the people who are prostitutes, so what is behind this discussion is the legalization of lenocinium, it is the transformation of progenetism, today punished by law, into a legal business, it is to stop punishing those who exploit and get thousands of euros of profits with the exploitation of prostitution, a crime that goes hand in hand with the trafficking of human beings and which urgently fights. It is not the legalization of lenocinium that provides greater protection for prostitutes, quite the contrary its legalization would legitimize only the abominable business that prostitute women are subject to, would contribute to the increase of human trafficking and money laundering. That is what the experiences of other countries prove. Exploitation in prostitution is not an option for prostituted women. It is associated with economic and social difficulties, social exclusion and poverty. In its overwhelming majority, prostitutes are women and girls of disadvantaged means. It is shown that the legalization of lenocinium is not a solution and only contributes to the increase of violence and exploitation on women and girls. Prostituted women should not be criminalized or targeted at persecution or stigmatization. The path passes through the adoption of measures to support women, allowing them to leave prostitution and build a life with dignified conditions. The protection of women and children requires a strong fight against prostitution and trafficking in human beings, requires the implementation of the Plan to Combat Exploration in Prostitution, approved in the Assembly of the Republic, in 2013, to ensure the immediate access of persons who are prostituted to a set of support that enable them to reintegrate social and professional, in particular through privileged access to social protection mechanisms, in support of housing, health, the increase of their education and access to vocational training, as well as the guarantee of privileged access of their children to social equipment. This resolution resulted from a legislative initiative proposed by the CFP and which, nine years later, remains to be implemented, as are the measures adopted in the State budget. Most women would like to abandon prostitution. It is therefore necessary to adopt exit programmes so that women who understand it have the confidence and support of the State to initiate a life project free of violence. As it has already been necessary, in situations of despair, more women are prevented from falling into the fabric of prostitution. It is necessary to intervene courageously in order to put an end to the exploitation of prostitution, in order to face the interests behind prostitution and those of which it benefits, and the courage goes through the advancement in the emancipation of women, guaranteeing them the freedom to decide about themselves and their lives. We therefore welcome all the women who fight against forms of exploitation and violence, who fight for equality and dignity and we welcome a delegation of these women here present in the Assembly of the Republic. They count on us in the fight for equality at work and in life. [[PCP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u353	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u354	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to greet all the Members who have spoken so far, giving us a clear, complex, informed debate, but not by chance, but only by women. Not by chance and a chance that should make us think, because, if it is true that prostitution is not just a matter of women, the truth is that the demand for prostitution is majority or almost exclusively made by men. This is a reflection of a culture, of an old system of differences between the sexes, of prolongation of a patriarchal culture, which is also reflected in prostitution, and which should lead us to think, even, of something lacking in this petition, i.e. in preventing the demand for prostitution as a central element of any policy on this subject. In the Free, we've been away from this petition for a long time. However, we believe that it is not only possible but also necessary to combat an exploratory system, which is the prostitution system, and the protection and protection of the rights and human dignity of those who have prostituted themselves, it is necessary, at the same time, of course, to do the work of preventing the demand for prostitution and the work of promoting alternatives to prostitution. It must be one of the last Members to speak in this debate, but certainly not closing it, seeking to extend it and contribute to it, at least with as much complexity as has been revealed by the Members who have spoken so far. And if, as I have already said, much in the distance from the petition, no one can be indifferent to the text of the petitioners, when they say to us: "We are human, we have dignity and rights, we want to be heard." Let's hope this House does just that request.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u355	For an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz of the Liberal Initiative has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u356	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Petitioners and Petitioners : The petition we are examining today leads us to reflect on a subject that many prefer to avoid. under a principle of the primacy of individual freedom, anyone should be able to choose his or her profession, and it is not for the State to prohibit this choice on the basis of his or her moral concepts. The current position of the Portuguese legislator is not to punish or regulate prostitution. As a result, people involved in prostitution do not enjoy the same protections guaranteed to other professionals, are unprotected from all kinds of abuse and exposed to a criminal sub-world. This legislative gap is a gross waiver of the duty to protect the rights of these women and men. We understand that there are very different realities in this context. The first includes the cases in which there is a free and conscious choice to invest in sexual work. It is in this sense that we are in favour of the regulation of prostitution. The petition had the merit of bringing to the agenda the need for regulation of this activity and its most relevant aspects, such as the rights and duties that bring security to these workers. When we talk about regulation of prostitution, this is at stake: professional freedom; rights and duties; regulated activity; and, in general, health and safety assurances for these men and women. However, there is another, quite distinct reality that we cannot tolerate: prostitution, as a free professional choice, cannot be confused with trafficking and sexual exploitation. We are aware that there are highly unprotected people who are subject to and are victims of trafficking, violence and sexual exploitation. Particularly vulnerable are minors, whose sexual exploitation will always be a shocking crime. It is a crime against all of us, against the future of our community, which is unacceptable. It is also to combat these crimes and protect their victims that it is essential to draw clear red lines between what is legitimate work and what are horrendous crimes. These crimes must be combated, because only in this way will we be able to protect victims and vulnerable populations and advance to responsible regulation of prostitution. The implementation of the rules of prostitution must undergo a serious and informed debate, drinking from various areas, such as sociology, psychology, medicine, constitutional law, human rights, criminal law, civil law, labour law and social security. The Liberal Initiative advocates responsible rules for prostitution, but we cannot follow the decriminalization of lenocinium. We call on all parties to find together a consensus that will enable us to end the clandestineness and the harmful effects that these people are doomed to. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u357	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we close the fifth item on our agenda and move on to the last item, with the assessment of Petition No 179 / XIV / 2. a ( Movement 8 %) — For an urgent investment in science in Portugal, together with in general draft Law No 90 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Acknowledges the duty of the institutions to initiate a competitive procedure for the functions performed by the doctors when the contract is terminated and draft resolution No 53 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends the adoption of measures for the dynamisation of the National Scientific and Technological System, combating precariousness and underfinancing. First of all, I welcome the petitioners and informers who are registered for an intervention, Mr Rui Tavares, of the Free, to whom I give the floor immediately.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u358	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Petitioners, I would like to greet you and thank you for the opportunity of this petition. It is true that it is not recent, because the problems of precariousness and the problems of lack of investment in science in our country — at the level of what is done in the European partner countries — are not today. But these problems need to be solved and quickly solved, because if we want our country to take a leap in its development plan, it is essential that investment in science be done at the level of what is done in the rest of Europe, of the objectives that we have to reach 3 %, and that precariousness in the scientific system and higher education be combated. The draft law of the Free goes precisely in the sense that all those who are currently supporting scientific employment—that the FCT ( Foundation for Science and Technology) gives universities, higher education, research centres, institutes—and that over a period of six years do research and sometimes teaching in these higher education institutions, have at least access to a competitive procedure at the end of that period so that they can be hired by universities. It is important that universities and other higher education institutes, when accepting and at the same time participating in the applications of their researchers, have the notion of the responsibility that this means and that, at the end of the period of support for scientific employment, they must open competitive procedures in a mandatory way and not only according to the convenience of the higher education institution, as has been done so far. It is also important that there is an increased requirement in relation to the CTF, so that, within the framework programmes that negotiate with higher education institutions or support that otherwise gives associated laboratories and the State, he believes that after that period of six years and in the name of rejuvenation, opening, internationalising, increasing the requirement of our scientific system, such researchers should be hired permanently when the quality of their work and their applications so justify it. at the same time, and so on, we follow up much of the measures proposed by the CFP in its draft resolution, in particular the idea, which we intend to discuss further, to have a new financing model, largely based on the dynamics of our economy, which also benefits from the qualification of the workforce and the scientific research that these workers do.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u359	You now have the word Mr Diana Ferreira of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u360	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I should like to begin by complimenting the more than 8,000 petitioners who, in this petition, defend the need for increased investment in science, but also stability for industry professionals. Science and technology are structural dimensions for integrated and harmonious development, so it is urgent a policy to promote the potential of research, development and innovation to raise the country's capacities and defend national sovereignty. The national scientific and technological system is a structural element for a national development strategy based on technological development at the service of the country and its needs, as is an essential element for the modernization of the production apparatus, to promote national production and also for the progress of the country. Political options of successive governments and the chronic underfunding for science that these options have led to condemning our scientific system to the absence of a consistent, stable and permanent framework of thematic priorities and funding, with tremendously negative consequences as a public service of strategic interest. At the same time, it is perpetuated and normalized the precariousness that reaches thousands of researchers, thousands of science workers: they jump from stock exchange, from project to project, or drag themselves, years ago, with false green receipts. A precariousness that, in many situations, marks decades of life for researchers in our country. They produce knowledge, develop scientific research and do so in situations of job instability and low wages. A precariousness that, harming workers, their families and their life projects, also undermines the stability and scientific and technological development of the country and pushes many out of the country, because here they are not properly valued. But we are not condemned on this path and, defending a path of appreciation for scientific research and its workers, the CFP presents a set of measures to respond to the problems of sense. We therefore propose that the research exchanges be replaced by work contracts which guarantee an effective link between the investigator and the institution in which he exercises functions; that the scientific research career that exists, by promoting his openness and integration of workers in it; that the public investment in science is strengthened, that the State assumes its responsibilities in this area, including through the State budget; that a plan be drawn up for the State laboratories that fills needs, that update the conditions of operation and also of financing, multi-annual and stable funding that ensures an effective autonomy of the management of the budgetary allocations established; that a discussion be promoted on the operation and objectives of the FCT; that a fund be established for business technological innovation, in which there is co-management and public co-financing; and that a national partnership programme be created for applied research and innovation activities of products and processes, to be implemented by MPME (micro, small and medium-enterprises) with protocols established between the companies and public development institutions of I & D with defined funding and public research, with defined frameworks and research and public funding. Only with a policy for science and technology that stems from existing scientific and technical capabilities and potential, articulating them with real needs of the country, will it be possible to open the way to a true integrated development based on knowledge and with the central objective of improving the working and living conditions of the Portuguese people. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u361	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Carla Castro, of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u362	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I should like to begin by congratulating, in particular, the petitioners of the 8 % Movement, who are alerting us — or, better, confirming — to the serious difficulties facing the scientific community in our country. It was only possible to debate this petition now, after a few months, but the problems remain. The key points of this petition also raise other issues, such as the under-value of science in Portugal, the lack of conditions of the research community and the inadequate management of the Foundation for Science and Technology. One theme that should reflect all those involved is that of the clear evidence of reducing the number of applications to the Stimulus Individual Scientific Employment Competition. Notice that this year, on 5th. the issue of this competition, the deadline for applications ended in March of this year and only 2910 applications were found. For us to have a comparison, we are talking from less than 16 % to 28 % of all other editions. This is also paradigmatic of the little attractiveness of these contests. In 2020, investment in science represented 1, 6 % of GDP (gross domestic product) and, despite an increase over previous years, Portugal is still far from expected. And if it is also far from the European Union's research average, even further away is the target of 3 %, reaching in 2030. Speeches and debates on this subject are often focused on the resources of the FCT, but much more is needed. All associated processes need to be reformed and simplified. We need to go further in the reform of science in the broad sense. And, with the merit of the concerns brought, the changes in these legislative initiatives do not, for example, provide for autonomy and flexibility in opening competition procedures, do not have a clear identification on the part of higher education institutions about the need for the continuity of associated research projects. It effectively stresses the need for discussion for the review of the current system of scientific employment, as it is interested in promoting research in Portuguese business fabric. But for this, it is also necessary that there are conditions for attracting foreign direct investment, that there are investment conditions, that there is the capacity of companies to generate added value, that there are policies that help reduce the costs of context, which are very high, and policies effectively targeted for business competitiveness, policies that potentiate productivity and policies for an effective functional labour market. Making the country competitive is a key point for the Liberal Initiative and we cannot dissociate these discussions. In addition, it is also important, yes, that there is an increase in doctoral and research done in collaboration with companies and with the business environment, it is necessary to modify the financing models and it is necessary to effectively track the path of simplification, avoiding the constraints and delays in these areas. The need for solutions to attract private investment for science is also fundamental. We must not forget that there has been, yes, an increase in the number of doctors and post-doctoral workers, but this talent must not be wasted. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u363	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Rosa Venâncio, of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u364	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me to greet the more than 8,000 petitioners and, in particular, the 8 % Movement, present here. The subject of the petition we are discussing today, because of its relevance, has been one of the priorities of our political action in recent years. This finding is evidenced by a clear commitment to the implementation of policies for science and technology based on qualification, human resources enhancement, strengthening of academic and scientific institutions and increasing density and diversity of R & D structures, including the Associate Laboratories, State Laboratories, Technology and Innovation Centres, in addition to the network of Collaborative Laboratories, throughout the country. These political priorities are well evidenced in the years of sustained public and private investment in research and development that allowed us to reach 1, 6 % of GDP by 2020...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u365	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u366	... seeing, in spite of all the constraints brought by the pandemic, a positive trend towards its growth. We therefore continue to pursue the goal of reaching a public and private investment of 3 % of GDP in science in 2030 as well as ensuring regular funding, as well as the petitioners. On the other hand, in measures to stimulate the hiring of doctors, with diversified support lines, scientific employment data also demonstrate positive developments in all areas of knowledge. Between 2017 and 2020, around 7400 new contracts were made and the number of researchers in the business sector grew 81 %. Therefore, we must now sign this policy, in order to equip the country with greater capacity to meet the challenges of a society and an increasingly knowledge- and innovation-based economy. It is therefore important to ensure an extended and permanent discussion, particularly with the scientific community, for the strengthening of scientific and academic institutions and their relationship with the social and economic sector. This is the path of growth that we must pursue and consolidate, aware of the challenges and difficulties, but convinced of the results. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u367	You now have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs. Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u368	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would first like to greet the petitioners and the petitioners. Investment in science in Portugal continues to be short, based on precariousness and illusions. Investment in round science 1, 5 % of GDP, far from the European average of 2, 2 % of GDP. The objectives outlined by the current Minister are not encouraging either. In its calculations, Portugal should reach the target of 3 % of GDP in science, but two thirds of this value depends on private investment and therefore also uncertain. Moreover, much of the investment in science is lost when it bets itself on an endless turnover of precarious researchers, I repeat, an endless turnover of precarious researchers. The approval rates in the financing contests are miserable, as the petitioners warn, to whom I greet, indeed, for their dedication to science and civic intervention to defend the country's progress in this area. E 8 % or 5 % approval shall embarrass the country. There are qualified researchers, there are good projects, but many stay on the way. There are top researchers who have been precarious for more than 10 years; there are researchers who capture international funding for our universities and research centers, but who are going to stay behind. These researchers and their teams count for university rankings, but they don't count to be part of the career. There are researchers over 50 years of age and 20 years of work that continue to be contracted over time. The country invests in training, finances projects, qualifies researchers and then does everything to abandon the country, with the persistence of precariousness. PREVPAP ( Program for the Extraordinary Regularization of Precarious Links in Public Administration ) was a disappointment, the Decree-Law No 57 / 2016, which replaced scholarships for employment contracts, was in itself an advance, but created term employment contracts, in a parallel career, devalued in relation to the career of researchers. The prospect of six-year contracts, with the renewal of three plus three, is getting fat. And, looking at the FCT budget, we quickly realize that it is not even the government's will to pressure higher education institutions to keep researchers under that rule. In the Budget for 2022, the Left Block proposed a reinforcement of the FCT for hiring researchers. The objective was to open a competition to stimulate scientific employment, which ensured entry into the special careers of science and higher education. Unfortunately, this proposal was rejected, with the votes against the PS and the abstention of the parties on the right. The government intends to replace investment in science by propaganda. He says companies should hire doctors, that this will qualify the country's productive fabric, and he's right. The problem is that it does not set the example or create conditions for higher education and research institutions themselves to contract, with rights, these doctors, thus wasting the most qualified generation of this country, due to lack of investment in higher education and science. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u369	I now give the floor to Mr Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u370	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The arrival will abstain from voting on the motion request for 8 %, which I welcome, the draft law of the Free and the draft resolution of the CFP. We do not abandon science and research, but this area must have a profound renewal, that is, there are principles that must be respected. The first principle is the principle of State social responsibility in support of science and research, which must be unequivocal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u371	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u372	The State must require clear and systematic answers to questions such as: what is the value and meaning of academic knowledge? What are the taxable risks and side effects of the application of academic knowledge? And these effects exist! It is up to universities to clearly separate socially advantageous knowledge from socially harmful knowledge. These guarantees are not usually discussed or guaranteed. And this is another case. Second principle: higher education must be at the top of institutions with the self-awareness of error. And this is indissociable from strong and systematic internal criticism. I mean the criticism between academic peers.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u373	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u374	The problem is that this was banned from many university departments, precisely because of public funding. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The result is the addiction of knowledge, research and science. Sovereignty bodies that pretend that this does not exist in the university media finance intellectual irresponsibility. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u375	Third principle: the State has only legitimacy to support knowledge, science and research when there are unequivocal guarantees of autonomy between institutions, autonomy between political institutions and higher education institutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u376	Exactly! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u377	of the three initiatives under discussion, one project is Free and the other is PCP, all from the left side of this Parliament. It's symptomatic. politicization is an open-air addiction...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u378	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u379	...that kills universities.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u380	That's your choice!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u381	I quote examples: the ISCTE ( Institut Universitário de Lisboa ) is a feud of the PS ;...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u382	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u383	... the Center for Social Studies of the University of Coimbra is a feud of the Left Block ; the Faculty of Social and Human Sciences, in Lisbon, is over-controlled by the left. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, since the 18th century we have not tolerated the overlap between faith and science. [[PS protests.]] Listen, because you have to listen, and very well! Much less we can tolerate, in the 21st century, the promiscuity between politics and science, between power and reason, between political parties and universities. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The question is too serious! Get used to it, because it won't let go of this perspective for the dignity of knowledge and science! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u384	Mr António Topa Gomes, from the PSD, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u385	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I also congratulate the motion petitioners 8 % for an urgent investment in science in Portugal, and we are also here discussing a draft law of the Free and a draft resolution of the CFP. Knowledge has always been the key to the success of peoples, but today I believe it is also the key to the economic success of countries, particularly with their higher education system and with collaboration between science and innovation and companies. This will perhaps be the worst thing we've ever looked at. In fact, we already have a large number of doctors, but only 3% of them can fit into companies and there is a big way to go. In the previous legislature, the PSD presented a draft resolution, which was even at the origin of a recommendation to the Assembly of the Republic, having obtained a general approval, which somehow defines what the PSD would do best with regard to science. The first point would be to reinforce the funds allocated to the new editions of the Stimulus competition to individual scientific employment. We would also have a contribution to the stability of science, applying a minimum percentage of 15% in the approvals of the competition Estimulo to the Individual Scientific Jobs and the Scientific Research and Technological Development Projects. We also propose a balanced distribution between scientific areas and previously known regions, more competitions for the financing of research projects in all scientific fields, with the opening of annual editions (this is a very relevant aspect) and with well-defined dates, the definition of a strategy for science—and here we would have Horizon 2030 and the famous investment in science and technology of 3 % of GDP—and the promotion of competitions to support the acquisition of research equipment and infrastructures for research units. in this sense, we accompany, in its vast majority, the concerns expressed by the petitioners. In practice, what we have is that the chronic underfinancing of the higher education system leads to a small number of new contracts, insufficient to ensure the renewal of full-time doctoral teachers and, of course, researchers. In recent times, the so-called Science and Innovation Pact 2020 - 2030 has been cited in this House, and in this document it is identified as the first priority of multi-annuality, predictability and efficiency in response assessment processes. For example, 5, 3 % of projects were financed in the 2020 project contest; in a simple way, in 20 projects submitted to the competition, only one has been financed or, if we want for the refusal, 19 are rejected. This means that it is impossible to keep teams, with this success rate. And I would say even more: the time spent by the various researchers preparing serious proposals for research projects is probably more, if we allocate at that time a cost, than the total funding allocated. This is totally useless and results from the lack of predictability in the State budget. Yes, the effectiveness of the whole process is fundamental to the success of the scientific system and it will not be by chance that the State budget itself recognized bureaucracy, malfunction, as one of the points where the government had to act to improve the system. It is not just a question of money here, it is clearly a matter where our system, the government, the whole scientific system, needs to improve. Another example is the Stimulus Programme for Individual Scientific Employment and the report of the evaluation of the implementation of the programme, of the authorship of four former directors of Portuguese universities, which said, at a certain point, that the report was made in May 2020 but still awaited the results of the final 2018 competition series. How is it possible that people who have their lives to define compete in 2018, and by 2020 are still waiting for that? Oh, my God! Speaking of predictability, we again referred to the issue of the 3 % of GDP target in science, and there is a very important share of 1 % that should be public investment. Now, we have about 0, 6 % right now, so we have eight years to get there and so we should be growing about 0, 05 % a year. This was what the Assembly and the government should immediately define and it was this increase that could respond to these six points I listed. On the part of the PSD, this is the commitment we have, and we demonstrate it, with the scientific system, with the pockets, with the researchers and with the institutions. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u386	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u387	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I also begin by congratulating the more than 8,000 petitioners who brought this issue to the Assembly of the Republic. The sub-investment that has marked the area of research, but also higher education, particularly in the pockets, in particular in doctoral or post-doctoral studies, has indeed been chronic and a problem that has been dragged over several years in our country. It is essential that mechanisms be created that can value and combat the precariousness that these sectors have marked, which is not only through investment, but, above all, by the appreciation of these professionals and of the research scholarships themselves that are given. But in some ways, there are also issues that we cannot leave behind, in particular measures that can encourage innovation and the development of new technology. Although much has been rejected, either in the framework of the State budget or in the legislative initiatives we bring to the Assembly of the Republic, we cannot fail to point out that, in this regard, we have achieved an advance of EUR 4 million for alternative methods of research for animal use in animal testing. This is, of course, a path parallel to that which is a more structural problem in this sector, but it is no longer a step forward, hoping that in the coming years we will be able to take firmer steps in that which is the claim of petitioners, here in the Assembly of the Republic, and, above all, in the government, to whom this investment is also responsible.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u388	Mrs Eunice Silvers of the Socialist Party now has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u389	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing today, here in plenary today, a draft law of the Free and a draft resolution of the CFP, being the initiative of the Book most aimed at scientific employment and that of the CFP on public investment in science. The Socialist Party has promoted a policy of scientific employment that has changed the scientific system and national technology in recent years. Today we have more researchers, more researchers in different institutions, more researchers in the economic and social fabric. Since 2016, efforts have been made to this end, in particular the contract of work with the mode of hiring in science, the separation between the working context and the training context, an option that we assume, or the incentive to hiring doctors by companies. Spotual measures may deserve discussion, but if not articulated in a global vision that ensures sustained growth in the scientific and technological system may not make sense. Of course, public investment in science and technology is a stake in strengthening public investment and has also created conditions for a true science and innovation ecosystem that has boosted private investment in these areas. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u390	Our political action is based on this understanding and it is always in this assumption that we make this discussion. The number of researchers in the active population is growing to a historical milestone of 10, 3 researchers per 1000 assets in 2020. We should therefore avoid measures that significantly reduce the availability of institutions to provide opportunities for study and research to young scientists, measures that do not guarantee sustainability to the system, measures that only guarantee career entry opportunities to those already in the institutions. The Socialist Party remains committed to continuing policies for strengthening investment in research and development, aware of the challenges of the coming years. That is why we are here, to continue the path of the last two legislatures, to a country of the future and of knowledge. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u391	You now have the floor to Mrs Diana Ferreira from the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u392	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is not possible to value scientific research without valuing its workers, all its workers. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in our country we have an astrophysics investigator who, about a year ago, has taken an asteroid with his name by decision of the International Astronomical Union. He has managed to have an asteroid with his name, but he cannot have an effective bond, is with a precarious link since 1998, and this is deeply revealing the devaluation of workers in scientific research in our country, which successive governments have taken as an option for science. We are not indeed doomed to this path. The enhancement of science requires the strengthening of public investment and also requires that the end of precariousness in science be taken into account, the end of the continuing precariousness for thousands of workers in the field of scientific research. However, it was important that the PS actually wanted to take over the end of the precariousness, but we have already seen several statements by both the Members. Members as members of the government, that this is not a reality they want to achieve. from the PCP, the proposals presented here are effectively to end precariousness in the sector and also to strengthen public investment in science. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u393	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the debate and our agenda today. I give the floor to Mrs Palmira Maciel for the reading of her file, as well as to announce to her colleagues who participated in this meeting remotely. Please, Mrs Palmira Maciel.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u394	Mr President, I should like to announce that they have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, draft resolutions Nos 71 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 12. the Commission, and 73 / XV / 1. a ( PAR) and Draft Deliberation No. 4 / XV / 1. a ( PAR). I'm going to take care of the ladies now. Members who were present by video conference: Clarisse Campos, Cláudia Santos, Francisco Dinis, Hugo Costa, Maria da Luz Rosinha, Rui Lage, Sofia Andrade and Susana Amador, PS, Duarte Pacheco, Germana Rocha and Isura Morais, PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-01.u395	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. The agenda for the next sitting, to be held tomorrow, Thursday, includes political declarations and the assessment of Bill Nos 8 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 1, which aims to empower the competition authorities of the Member States to apply the law more effectively and ensure the proper functioning of the internal market, and 106 / XIV / 2. a ( ALRAA ) — First amendment to Decree-Law No 70 / 2020 of 16 September, which updates the age of access to pensions and eliminates the sustainability factor in early retirement schemes under the general social security scheme. Good afternoon to everyone and until tomorrow. [[It was 19 hours and 17 minutes.]]
