ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u1	Good morning to all of you and to all of you. Ladies and gentlemen. The session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 4 minutes.]] The gentlemen. Authorities can open the galleries. I begin by complimenting the Government team, the Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs, the Minister of Education and the Secretary of State for Education. We will start the debate on sectoral policy, with the Minister of Education, remembering once again that the debate has specific rules, such as the ladies and gentlemen. Members are aware of this and that the same is in line with Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. in this circumstance, I shall immediately give the floor to Mr. Minister of Education, João Costa, who has 10 minutes to present and launch this debate. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Education has a period that requires concentration of efforts, resources and determination. We still live in schools, the consequence of one of the greatest shocks that educational systems around the world have suffered. The pandemic, despite all its efforts in distance teaching, caused delays in learning and worsened inequalities. The main challenges of education systems have not changed, but have become evident and urgent. Inclusion and combating inequalities were already a priority, as well as the need to diversify ways to educate, ways to teach, learning paths and the organization of support to students. The relevance of an evaluation, eminently formative and that serves the purpose of measuring to intervene, becomes evident to all, because without data there is no intervention. It is in this context that this academic year gives continuity to the ambitious Plan for Learning Recovery 21 23 School +. The strengthening of time credit, the increase of time for multidisciplinary teams to support inclusive education, the extension of tutoring support to students with more difficulties, the continuation of the work of approximately 1200 technicians developing personal, social and community development plans, interventions aimed at specific areas of the curriculum, with particular emphasis on reading, in a mathematics curriculum focused on fundamental competences, in the experimental teaching of science, with 896 new clubs living science, are just a few examples of what allows schools to have at their disposal a significant volume of support structures for recovery. This tireless work of all those working in schools allows us to resume a course of reduction of school failure rates and keep us above the European average, with an early school dropout rate of 5%, 1% in the first quarter of this year. For this to happen, it has been essential to trust teachers and school technicians. unlike the desired by some, the Ministry of Education did not prescribe unique and uncontextualized measures, but conferred an unprecedented degree of autonomy on its professionals. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today, Portuguese schools have freedom to organize the school calendar, reorganize classes and support groups throughout the school year, allow students to move forward to the following school year, while continuing to attend previous years' disciplines, and create disciplines and workshops dedicated to specific groups, depending on the most critical areas. Without trust in local actors, there is no transformation in education and without transformation there is no answer to the urgent challenges facing education systems. We want and work for an effective social contract for education. This work, combined with the more than 100 innovation plans adopted by the schools, shows that more than half of the groups of schools are already developing the National Plan of Arts, to increase the modalities of school sport, to integrate the activities of the National Plan of Cinema into the curriculum, reveals a modern, innovative Portuguese school, which responds to the challenges of more demanding learning, for all, and promoters of an education for active and enlightened citizenship, in which knowledge constitutes a weapon against the attacks on freedom and democracy that emerge in these strange times. The successive monitoring instruments and their results, which have been disseminated, allow us to identify areas that require this work to be continued and strengthened. The school year 2022 - 2023 began with the continuation of these initiatives. It was a start made with serenity as well. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let me note here that we have had a start of a school year that began quietly, with the schools opening as planned, without surprises, in this which was a year of profound transformation in the preparation of the school year and for which I dare say that the country has hardly realized it. It was therefore crucial for timely and serene preparation, with the validation of classes, the stabilization of the network, the distribution of school textbooks and the allocation of support in good time, ensuring that, between the end of July and the beginning of August, everything was in place for the opening of the year. But, above all, to evaluate the opening of the school year is also the time to heighten the work of the municipalities. This September marked a profound change in the form of organization of our education system. Since 1 April, all municipalities have assumed the competences of education. For decentralization skeptics, for those who said everything would go wrong, the evidence speaks for themselves. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u3	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u4	The school year started well throughout the territory. The government has decentralized and strengthened the means and now we have proof that proximity brings efficiency, proximity brings effectiveness, and knowledge of the concrete reality of each school and of each context brings a better response to the needs of all educational communities. The municipalities have a significant reinforcement of the education funds provided for in the agreement signed between the Government and the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ( ANMP ) and already covered in the State Budget for 2023. Citing only the example of the maintenance of equipment, the updating of the values resulting from this agreement gives municipalities more than twice the capacity that the centralized management by the Ministry of Education had so far. The government doubles: it trusts the management of municipalities and trusts the teaching capacity of schools. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the difficulties of replacing teachers that have been felt have merited the concentration of efforts and the development of measures by the Government as a whole, which have proved to be effective. We're solving the difficulties and we're already better off. The renewal of hours in August, guaranteeing greater stability to teachers, prevented more than 1100 hours from being without a teacher at the beginning of the year. The completion of incomplete hours, for which there was no candidate, allowed more than 540 teachers to be placed in hours to be completed. Good management of teachers' statutory mobility prevented more than three hundred hours from being occupied. The use of school contracts after the first placement without candidates reduced to 12 days the replacement of teachers in the absence of medical leave, when more than 30 days had to be expected to start this process. School recruitment has proved effective, coupled with the possibility of recruitment, in exceptional contexts, of post-Bolonha graduates. They are immediate management measures that have allowed faster mitigation of teaching needs. Obviously, a student without a teacher to a discipline is one more student. Therefore, it is important to work in monitoring situations of absenteeism, in support of an effective distribution of teaching services by schools and, above all, to solve the medium and long-term.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u5	Certainly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u6	The Government initiated dialogue with the trade union organizations for the revision of the model of recruitment and placement of teachers, with a view to reducing the precariousness, stabilization of teachers in school framework, reduction of the size of the pedagogical frameworks and strengthening of autonomy in the recruitment process. Together with the Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education, we are preparing changes to the initial training of teachers, extending the range of candidates to education courses and paying for the internships of students in training. These are stages of a path initiated by the governments of the Socialist Party for the stabilization of professionals. We have this ambition. Since 2015, contrary to the speech of those who preceded us and the recent voice of the PSD, we assume that there are no more teachers and therefore more than 15 000 teachers have been linked, a process that will have continuity and will be strengthened in 2023. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I shall finish this speech, ladies and gentlemen. Members, celebrating an important milestone in the mission of the social state: don't give up anyone. In September this year, after four years of operation of the Qualifica Programme, we reached 1 million certifications obtained by adults who did not have the opportunity to study at their own age. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is a reason for pride for all, because it shows that the State does not cease to open up new paths and paths for all those to whom, in the past, it has not guaranteed the fundamental right of access to education. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u7	Mr Minister for Education, I now begin with a compliment to you for the strict manner in which you used your time. We shall now move aside from the debate itself. In the first round, the PSD has 9 minutes and, as you know, before the questions, the Minister or other member of the government immediately answers. To ask questions, I give the floor to Mrs Sonia Ramos of the PSD Parliamentary Group. PSD Member Sonia Ramos went to the gallery. Madam Member, I suggest you ask the question directly from your bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u8	It's mandatory!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u9	Thus, the debate remains more lively, more forward-looking, eyes in the eye.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Minister, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we have listened very carefully to Mr Minister's speech, but certainly a majority of the Portuguese people do not recognize the Real Country in his speech. The Minister of Education wants to defend the indefensible: seven years ago in administrative and government functions, he now speaks as if he had begun his duties. The school year began with about 60 000 students without classes at least one discipline. And the Minister says it is acceptable because in the previous year it was worse and the estimates pointed to about 100 000 students. This is an unacceptable argument, which has made school in this government, which has invented an algorithm, unknown to all, to justify the incompetence and failure to solve the problems. There are thousands of young people affected in their educational course, exacerbating inequalities in access to education that, as we know, are accentuated within the country. When asked why the measures were not taken on time, as regards the lack of teachers, the Minister's reply was surprising: "The measures were those which were possible to be adopted by a government which had been in office only 171 days ago. Estimates would be about 100,000 students without a teacher. Do not keep on seeking. ” The mean age of the teaching class and the lack of career attractiveness were slightly considered, or not considered, in recent years, and for which the PSD was drawing attention. The opening of this school year, with the lack of planning in this and others, the absence of reforms and the adoption of unconsidered strategies, shows that the government has repeated the mistakes of the past. In May, the Minister also announced that many teachers would return to schools and that it would not be possible to continue the policy of concessions to associations, trade unions and other entities. Mr Minister, after all, how many teachers have returned to schools and what criteria have been chaired for maintaining this transfer of statutory mobility?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u11	This has already been answered in the initial intervention!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u12	He also announced that he would "severe the wheat from the juicy" in a very expressive attitude in situations of disease mobility and that to that end he would hire services for the realization of 7500 medical joints. Tragically, numerous situations have come to the public that were obviously more than confirmed and proven and that had tragic outcomes. After all, Mr Minister, how many of these medical boards have already been held and what percentage of their renewal? Mr. Minister has announced immense strategies, action plans and propaganda, inversely proportional to the results achieved, effectiveness and response to real problems. When everything starts to go wrong, the Government and Mr Minister call on the pacts, particularly the social pact for education, and it is already announced, with some scope, that the worst results on learning will be expected to reduce expectations on purpose, so as to extend responsibilities, which, in fact, in this government, has also done school. Mrs. Members, the PSD assumes a critical stance regarding the concepts that have guided the government's educational policy: it tends to devalue the role of teachers, making them mere classroom animators; it deverts the curriculum in favor of flexibility, but without establishing a perceptible purpose for all; it eliminates from educational grammar the concepts and values of discipline, of effort, of rational organization of learning; it abhors the exams and other external evaluation instruments, while underestimating the value of knowledge and ignoring the structuring power of mathematics, mother tongue and science. The current educational moment in our country is worrying and, in this opportunity and on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, we address a word of great appreciation to teachers who are targets of bodily or verbal offenses in the exercise of their noble function. These are the situations that deserve our liveliest repudiation and must require a very serious reflection, yes, on education for citizenship. The Ministry of Education has consistently failed students, teachers and the other educational community and has, above all, failed in preparing for the future of Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u13	To reply, Mr. Minister for Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u14	Mr President, Mrs Sónia Ramos, I begin by taking in her last words to also associate ourselves with the total repudiation and vehemently with the violent behaviors of any kind, in particular those that happen in schools and against teachers, as unfortunately happened this week. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member speaks of the school, the government, the non-preparation, the non-preparation, the non-preparation, but this is in fact barring in a story to which the honourable Member does not refer, which is the history of those who have been saying "there are more teachers" for years. It is not an old story, it is not a story that is over seven years old, it is a story of January this year, when the PSD leader once again stated « there are more teachers». So this says all about the PSD vision for the preparation of the future. [[PSD protests.]] In January 2022, they also stated « there are more teachers », when the government had already developed a study in anticipation of the needs of teachers, in a partnership between the DGEC ( Directorate-General for Education and Science Statistics) and the New University of Lisbon. Ignoring the facts, ignoring the evidence, the PSD continued with its conversation justifying this past that goes beyond seven years, the past in which we all already knew what the age profile of teachers was, we all knew what the predictability of retirements was. And what did the PSD do in government, in conjunction with the CDS? He took 28 000 teachers out of the system.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u15	And what did you guys do?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u16	in these seven years in which it says that nothing has been done, what has been done was to bring back to schools more than 8,000 teachers. We hired more than 8,000 teachers, strengthened our teams, stabilized and linked 15 000 teachers, all of which when the PSD continued to say "there are more teachers". [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, Mrs. Deputy, you try to rewrite a story that is not a real story, it is a story that you should actually be ashamed and you should be penitentiated. [[PSD protests.]] Ask me if we are working with algorithm, if we are working with propaganda. No, we are working with data and, as much as facts and data irritate it, data are data. What I can tell you is that, in the same time as last year and two years ago, we had twice as many hours to fill. Therefore, to say that there is no effectiveness in measures is to deny reality. Today we have a situation that is still worrying and we have said 'yes, there is a problem of lack of teachers', but we have also developed measures. These are measures that I have already mentioned, but I can say them again, because, as you have had your written intervention, you could not refer to the measures which were set out in my initial speech, you have only read what you have already prepared. Again, I can say that we have fewer than several thousand hours to fill, depending on the measures that you call yourself for propaganda or algorithms. No, we don't have algorithms. No, we're not being careful. We are, yes, working daily to mitigate this serious problem that we have in our hands. She asked the honourable Member what criteria were used in the management of statutory mobility. These were the obvious criteria: we measured the recruitment groups, the teachers who asked for mobility and we gave priority to the statutory mobilitys that are intended for integration support structures, inclusion—for example, mobility for the Child and Youth Protection Committees and mobility for institutions that support disability—to the detriment of mobility for some commendable, admirable projects, but to which we cannot access when we do not have enough teachers. We also have, as you know, the medical boards being awarded. In conclusion, Mrs Deputies, I just wanted to say the following again: in relation to all this discourse on the devaluation of knowledge, of the facilitations that the PSD likes to do, enough is enough! [[CH's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u17	Ah! That's enough, that's enough! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u18	We still have an ambitious program to promote school success, we have a curriculum identified in several countries of the world as a modern, ambitious, demanding curriculum, we have success rates to rise, we have the rate of early school dropout to come down abruptly. This is given, this is evidence and, as much as the honourable Member does not like, we have an increasingly qualified country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u19	We continue with questions from the PSD Parliamentary Group. I give the floor to Mr António Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u20	Mr President, I begin by congratulating the Minister and the Members. Members of the Government here present. Mr. Minister, passing the blame on the PSD, for those who have been ruling for seven years, is very easy. [[PSD applause.]] I pay you one question: tell me how many students between 2011 and 2015 have been without a course for at least a whole year? Answer me! [[PSD applause.]] Moreover, I have listened very carefully to Mr Minister, as well as to his reply to the honourable Member, and it is strange how he transfers the responsibility of the lack of teachers to the PSD, forgetting that between 2011 and 2015 we had the troika, which was requested by the Socialist Party, and suddenly says that the blame is for the PSD. It's impressive! from my point of view, it is neither politically nor intellectually honest to say something like this.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u22	What is at stake here is that 20% of teachers in the coming years will retire. Over the next 10 years, 58% will be released. You have been ruling for seven years and there has been no single measure to address this problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u23	Just open your eyes!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u24	Question: Minister, is the PS just now ruling? Only now did they realize this time bomb? Just now? Oh, my God! It is very strange, but there is also one thing that is serious: you don't care about those who will leave for retirement or have not been so concerned, in the last seven years, with making our young people — our young people who leave high school — look for the initial teacher training courses. There is no single measure to that end. By the way, Mr Minister, speaking of the lack of attractiveness of the teaching career, what is done of the incentives, which you have entered into in the 2021 budget, to enhance the reconciliation between family life and working life? Where are these measures? Tell me! Where are they? [[PSD applause.]] More, we all know that the teaching profession, the teaching career, is not attractive to our young people. And I ask him, why? Why?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u25	They spend their lives saying that!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u26	It is true, Mr Porfirio. It's not worth it! In 2021, only 3 % of higher education students were enrolled in initial training courses. In his interview with the Observer, the advertising reported that there was an increase of 14%. I wanted to know absolute numbers, but I give them: there were 233 students who enrolled. Therefore, for the output volume of teachers that is expected, this number is infinitely lower. Mr. Minister and the government have a clock bomb in their hands. We know when it's going to explode, but we need to know in which hands it's going to explode. That is the point.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u27	In ours it won't be!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u28	Well, let's see! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, rest, because this is now what it will be. The measures which have been announced for the State budget for 2023 — Mr Minister, I am sorry — are responsible. They had already been announced in 2015, 2018, 2019 and 2022. The decrease in the teaching area had already been announced. Stabilization and effectiveness of the teaching body in schools are self-sustained measures. So I ask, why just now? Why? If they knew the problem was gonna happen, why? It is obvious that it is much easier to say that the guilt is the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u29	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u30	I will now finish, Mr President, in fact we have witnessed the degradation of the teaching profession. In conclusion, I refer to another subject. Mr. Minister, at the IGEC ( General Inspection of Education and Science ), which has double guardianship of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education, was opened in 2018 for 24 inspectors, but only 5 remained. Question : When will they open another contest? Or do you think it's not necessary to open another contest? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u31	To reply, Mr. Minister for Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u32	Mr President, Mr António Cunha, you do not know me well, although you already know me, but learn something: "guilty" is a word that I usually do not use and therefore not step by step, because that is not what is done.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u33	Responsibility!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u34	You will not hear, in any of my speeches, a passing of blame. On the contrary, what you hear is always an assumption of responsibility for the problems that my team and I have in our hands and intense work to solve them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]] The mantras that the PSD likes to repeat — the pass-up, the facilitation, the nha-nha-nha-nha — no longer glue, no longer interest. What we're interested in is solving the problems, and that's why we're here. He also knows when the large increase in retirements takes place — from 2019 onwards. Therefore, when comparing lacks of teachers now with lacks of teachers between 2011 and 2015, you know that you are comparing completely different realities. [[PSD protests.]] Did we know? Now! And you already knew and did not come with the troika, because it was assumed by the gentlemen who, in education, would go beyond it. Therefore, they are not justified with the troika for ideological options to reduce, in addition to that required by the Memorandum of Understanding, the budget for education in public school, when at the same time significantly increased the budget of education for private and cooperative education. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] They have itching when they evoke that period, which is even a period of bad memory. But I'm not really interested in talking about what happened at that time, what I'm interested in is talking about now.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u35	You have selective memory!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u36	Is there not one measure in seven years? We have had an increase in the number of teachers, we have had the creation of new recruitment groups, we have had extraordinary binding processes that have created stability to 15 000 teachers in these years and we will continue to strengthen this binding process. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But we took off our careers. This allows us to have a data that speaks for itself: in 2018, we had, no 10. the step, 7% of the teachers; right now, we have 18% of the teachers on the last step. And we have 30% of the teachers at the highest levels of our career. What have you guys done about this? Zero, nothing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u37	You guys are freezing your careers!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u38	And who never took them off and now fill your mouth with nothing that has been done? We have made an effective effort and we have effective work, as well as given evidence and evidence to show in the appreciation of teachers' career. What did the PSD do to this? He dismissed, sent away, sent to emigrate and spent years saying that they did not need the Portuguese education system. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u39	PSD's out of time and so we're gonna spend... [[Pause.]] Mr António Cunha wants to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u40	Yes, Mr President, for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u41	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u42	Just to say that the PSD is not a party of « nha-nha-nhãs ». [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] Excuse me, let's raise the debate here, please. We're a liability party. That's all I wanted to say. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u43	As far as possible, I would ask you to avoid such petitions to the Bureau on the conduct of the work, because it clearly has nothing to do with the conduct of the work. Let's move on to the second interpellant. I give the floor to the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival and, in particular, to Mr Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members today, at the beginning of Mr.Minister for Education, said the following: "For those who said they were going to run badly, the evidence speaks for themselves. They really speak, Mr Minister, it went so badly, so bad that your sentence falls that not a glove in what is happening in Portugal today. Therefore, I could not begin this intervention without regretting what happened in Figueira da Foz, where 10 Roma women once again assaulted a teacher who went to the hospital in the face of the disbelief of a whole country. Mr. Minister, it is not only in Figueira da Foz, in Campo Maior, in Monforte, in Lisbon, in Avis, in Porto, in Madeira, in the Azores, it is everywhere. Every day, there are aggressions of gypsies at the door of schools, and that is the responsibility of the government. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS protests.]] Therefore, this party may not speak for the politically correct, but it speaks for thousands of families who in Alentejo, Lisbon, Porto, in large cities suffer from this problem, and you should be supportive of teachers who are victims of this situation every day. Look, Minister, « A teacher is attacked every three days in Portugal ». The speaker displayed the title of a newspaper article. Is this your success? Are these evidences telling us that they spoke for you, a teacher every three days assaulted? Mr Minister, the latest data we have tells us that there are four attacks every day in schools, and the data are last year. Four assaults a day! So instead of the « nha-nha-nha-nha-nha-nã », instead of sitting there doing nothing and telling the Portuguese, explain to us what you did to keep schools safe. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u45	To reply, Mr. Minister for Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u46	Mr President, Mr André Ventura, master of decontextualization, the phrase for those who said that everything was going wrong was about decentralization of competences. The honourable Member is living from the decontextualization and the inversion of messages, but not glued.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u47	Mr. Minister is nervous!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u48	I would like, as I have already done and as I have done publicly, to associate myself with the honourable Member in condemning assaults on teachers, from aggressions to anyone else. All acts of violence are unjustified, cannot be accepted, cannot be tolerated and must therefore act, and the Ministry of Education, in conjunction with other areas of governance, in particular with the Ministry of Internal Administration, age. The Safe School exists, the Safe School is effective... [[CH protests.]] ... and support for teachers who, unfortunately, suffer this kind of aggression is also mobilized, it is also made available.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u49	Let's say that to the people of Campo Major!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u50	But let me tell you something, Mr. André Ventura. You may want to delude numbers, but fortunately, even though each case is very serious—and that it is very clear, each case is very serious—, violence in the school context has been declining very much in recent years. [[You've come down?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u51	In the record of occurrences of the school security platform, we moved from 1263 occurrences in 2019 / 2020 to 698 last school year.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u52	It was the pandemic, Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u53	It is as serious violence and aggression as it is to use the cases of aggression and violence to encourage hate speech, encourage us versus them,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]] ... foster the widespread idea that we live in a country where we are all at war with each other,
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u54	It's not war!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u55	War is in your Ministry!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u56	...where schools are unsafe. That's an artifact, that's the trap... [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u57	Mr. Minister, just a moment. Let me interrupt you to ask for some serenity. What you are saying is important and therefore I ask the House for some serenity. This is a very conspicuous matter, so, in this logic of serenity, you can continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u58	Thank you very much, Mr President. So, we don't delude and we don't create false data... [[False?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u59	... when they don't exist, because what we're really interested in is working on the measures we have with the Safe School, with the School Without Bullying program. School Without Violence, in a specific area of the curriculum that you so reject, which is citizenship, to promote healthy environments in schools, environments where violence does not grow. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u60	Go to Camp Major's school!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u61	Mr André Ventura, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, continues to address the Minister for Education.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u62	Mr Minister, I confess to you that I expected to hear a lot of things about you this morning, but to say that the numbers are better when I spoke to you in three attacks on teachers every day, I think this is embarrassing any Parliament and, above all, embarrassing you. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u63	What we have heard in recent days was the whole country outraged, and well, by the President of the Republic said that the cases of sexual abuse of minors were not so many. The whole country was outraged, and well, and Mr Minister comes here today to say that the numbers are better and that, therefore, these cases, perhaps, are not so serious. They are very serious, Minister, teachers who are assaulted every day. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS protests.]] They're teachers who are assaulted every day and that's serious enough. So, Minister, there are no hate speeches here. [[There, there!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u64	What is there is the recognition of the concrete reality that you deny. Mr. Minister, I challenge you: get out of here today and go to a school in Alentejo. Go over there, go to Major Field. After what happened yesterday in Campo Maior, go there again today, go to Aviz, go to Monforte, go to Moura, go to Mourão, go see what happens, because people know out there. It is not worth pretending that there is no; there is a problem. The Minister says « the Safe School is working». Explain that to the mothers, parents, students who have no security that the Safe School is working there. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u65	That's the PS problem: he talks to a camera instead of talking to the country. We prefer to talk to the country. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr Minister, 60 000 students did not have a teacher at least one discipline. The Socialist Party, which promised this year to bring a large pillow for education, brought, in this Budget, the pillow that I will tell you: minus 7, 6 % investment in education.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u66	It's a lie! Learn how to read the Budget!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u67	We are talking about a significant decline not only in investment, but also in what will be paid for the progress of teachers, investment in material and school logistics. A reduction of 7, 6 % of the budget. So I would like to ask you the following Minister: how do you want to have more and better education? How do you want to have more and better Safe School? How do you want to have more and better, in teachers, in their motivation and in their careers, if this Budget invests less than the previous ones invest in education? But there is one thing you cannot do, Minister, that is to come here saying that two years ago and a year ago the data was much better. You know why? Because we were in a pandemic and half of the country was out. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] So the only thing that can give you reason is who's talking there, who can never talk in Parliament and use Twitter at night to talk, and you have no idea what you're saying. [[PS protests.]] Mr. Minister has a duty to know what you're talking about. Comparing pandemic data with data from the country in which we live today is not only dishonesty, it is intellectual fraud, and that's what you're doing here. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u68	The Minister of Education has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u69	Mr President, Mr André Ventura, the honourable Member does not like data, it is obvious. He likes to shoot numbers and then is constantly being denied by the numbers he shoots, without foundation. What we have, and what I mentioned here, is the record of occurrences on the school platform of the School Security Information System, and you know you're being dishonest when you say I'm comparing pandemic year with year that's not pandemic year.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u70	But what year?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u71	In 2019 / 2020, schools were partially closed and there were 1263 records that year.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u72	From March!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u73	In 2021 / 2022 the schools were open and there were 698 occurrences.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u74	There was a pandemic! People weren't on the street!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u75	Let me also tell you, Mr President, that I reject the attempt you are making here, I reject what you have tried to say, because I have said with all the words « these cases are serious». I repeat, if you have not understood, « these cases are serious, they are very serious». But I say more: these are serious cases and all cases of crime are serious. Therefore, when it brings cases of crime associated with an ethnic group to the table, it also brings cases of crime that are not associated with an ethnic group, to all criminals.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u76	They're all!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u77	I'm not interested in condemning crime by skin color.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u78	No one's talking about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u79	I'm interested in condemning crime. Bridge. On the Budget, Mr André Ventura, what you learn in school is also mathematics, and the education budget between 2015 and 2023 has a rate of variation, an accumulated balance of 44, 1 %. The budget for education has already grown, in this period of socialist governance, 44, 1 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u80	I'm not talking about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u81	For the year, it doesn't go down, it grows. It has to read the State budget for education associated with the funds of the Decentralisation Fund, and there is an increase of 3, 6 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u82	Mr Ventura has the floor to continue questioning the Minister for Education.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u83	Mr President, Minister, we are certainly not speaking the same language.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u84	You can't even!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u85	I will show you again, Minister : "A teacher is attacked every three days. Do not keep on seeking. ” The speaker again displayed the title of a newspaper article. Minister, you're here, I don't know if you've read, but I can send you. You know how to read, don't you?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u86	They can't read!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u87	« Teacher assaulted every three days». You say here it's for gypsies? It says here that it's by Afro-descendants, that it's by Asians? Don't! They're all! I'm telling you about everything, about the misery that is security in our schools and that you are responsible. He's here. [[Congrats from the CH.]] He's here. Take him there. It's here, it's easy, it's so easy, it's assuming there's a problem of insecurity in schools. Instead of « nha-nha-nha-nha-nhã », it is assumed. You know what that's called? That is to say the truth, it is called to tell the Portuguese that there is a problem of insecurity and so we will solve it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u88	That's telling the lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u89	The Minister said yesterday that the big problem in Portugal was fraudulent casualties, medical casualties, and even said that they would now send everything to justice. Now it's going to be the Socialist Party, they're sending everything to the Attorney General of the Republic. Now it's gonna be all on the line, here with the Socialist Party stick, to see who's doing fraud and who's not walking. Therefore, Mr Minister, I would like to ask you whether you have data on the real fraud that teachers may be involved in fraudulent medical facilities or just to "throw into the air" to get well. It is because the Minister said yesterday: "There is a problem, which is serious, of a very high number that is associated with fraudulent medical casualties of teachers. Do you have these numbers or are you just drawing up and "throwing into the air"? What numbers? Oh, my God! What is the percentage of teachers who put down fraud? How many can be the target of a criminal trial? Do you have numbers on that? It was important to know. You can't throw that data into the air like that.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u90	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u91	I will finish, Mr. President. Finally, Mr Minister, I ask you if you see the proposal that your party wants to make here in Parliament of the boys and girls can freely choose the bathroom where they go. If they're boys, you can go to girls' bathroom. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u92	How's he doing in your house? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u93	So I'd like your parents... [[PS protests and CH counterprotests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u94	Mr. Deputy, just a moment. The colleagues in the Arrival also have to work together a little bit. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let Mr Ventura conclude his appeal to the Minister, in fact, he is already concluding, since he is out of time. I therefore ask you to complete your inquiry.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u95	Mr Minister, this news is of the last few days: « PS Bill provides that children in the process of social transition of identity(...) » — perhaps the Minister here may bring a study on this — « (...) and gender expression may be treated by the self-assigned name and choose the bathroom they want in schools. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PS protests.]] I want the parents who are watching us know this: the PS wants a boy to go to the girls' bathroom if he wants to. [[Don't!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u96	When for the year, or for the other, there are serious cases... [[PS protests.]] Can you hear me for a moment or not? Oh, my God! Can you hear me for a second or not?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u97	Mr. Deputy, just a moment. This issue of bathrooms is of course very important. A bathroom is very important,... [[Congrats from the CH.]] ...but you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u98	I will finish, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u99	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies. You want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u100	I know the PS doesn't want this to happen, because this isn't very popular out there, but you have to know: the PS wants the bathrooms to be mixed, that boys can go to girls' bathroom and vice versa.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u101	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u102	Is this true or not true, Minister? Oh, my God! How are we going to solve this situation? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u103	To answer this and the other important questions, Mr President-in-Office of Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u104	Mr President, honourable Member, the PS, and much of this House, defends gender equality. You are concerned about bathrooms, so it is clear from that point on what each one's priorities are. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u105	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u106	What's the answer? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u107	About medical discharges...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u108	Now I'm gonna have to go to the bathroom with men? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u109	What's the answer? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u110	The answer is very clear, Mr President: respect for each one's privacy, privacy and dignity. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u111	That's no answer! Are there going to be mixed bathrooms or not?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u112	The honourable Member began by saying that we do not speak the same language. And I say, "Well, that's good! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u113	Good!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u114	I'll just be very worried about me the day we're talking the same language. Unless you take your doctor's time back, when I even wrote things more reasonable than those you defend today out loud.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u115	Answer the question!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u116	But let me tell you...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u117	Mr. Minister, you have to conclude. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u118	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u119	I suggest Mr. Minister to respond in the next round... [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS protests.]] ... or, then, reply briefly to another plea. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u120	The PS doesn't like it? Oh, my God! Call Santos Silva!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u121	We will now move on to the third interpellant, the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group. You have the floor to ask Mr Minister, Mrs Carla Castro.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u122	Mr. President-in-Office, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, I will address a number of issues relating to important education policy and concrete actions. I'm going to start with the theme of mental health, a subject that we discussed yesterday and which was a little off from the subjects of education. The Ministry of Education promoted the study "psychological health and well-being", which in May showed results. I have many times thanked this initiative and now I have the opportunity to say it personally. The results are, however, worrying: one third of the students and half of the teachers in psychological suffering and between one third and one fourth of the older students feel sadness several times a week. When we analyze the impact of the pandemic, we realize it's screaming. After the pandemic, 34% of students reported that their school life was worse or much worse. But when we look at the teachers, the data is even very alarming, because more than 50% feel nervous, sad, angry or moody and, in the post-pandamy, 70% of the teachers claim that their lives were worse in schools. Mr Minister, under the title'silent pandemic' and knowing that he recently said at the Congress of the Order of Portuguese Psychologists that, often, the main barriers to learning are social and emotional barriers—and that is valid for teachers and also for students—I ask, without intention processes: what concrete measures have already been taken? And how soon will more action be taken? Is it in partnership with the rest of the government, particularly with the Ministry of Health, on this subject and the National Mental Health Plan? [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u123	To reply, Mr. Minister for Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u124	Mr President, Madam Member, I am pleased to note the concern, which is shared, with this fundamental theme of emotional well-being and mental health in schools. We know that it was one of the main consequences of the pandemic and we know, as Mrs Carla Castro said, that it is often there that are the main barriers in access to learning and access to the curriculum. Ask me about concrete measures. We had already taken measures, such as, for example, specific tutorial support, which was developed from 2017 and is very focused on developing social and emotional skills in students. The strengthening of psychologists in schools, which has been done over the past few years, allows us today to have the recognition of the Order of Portuguese Psychologists for having double the psychologists in view of what existed. We are developing—as is knowledge, it has already entered the second year—a broad programme focused on the development of social and emotional skills, the Ubuntu School Programme, which is in schools. We have the Personal, Social and Community Development Plans, which have allocated 1238 technical schools in these two years and which also allow such initiatives. I remember that, of these 1238 technicians, almost half are psychologists. We have other technicians who also contribute indirectly to this well-being, such as all the effort we have with artists resident in schools, who are implementing the National Plan of Arts and who make schools a healthy space, a space of harmony, a space of well-being. Following the monitoring of emotional well-being in the school community, in partnership with the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation and with seven universities, we have adopted a set of activities to promote emotional well-being and is already undergoing the formation of trainers in this area. And, yes, we are connected with the Ministry of Health. The entire mental health program involves an interaction with what happens in schools. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u125	In order to continue the use of the word and to be able to speak to Mr Minister for Education, Mrs Carla Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u126	Mr President, Minister, we will return to the subject of the lack of teachers and in particular to the autonomy of recruitment in schools. For now, I would like to make a brief note that we talked about around 60 000, but there are indications that there are 100 000 students without full time. It makes this range of numbers very strange, as well as quite repulsive, because between 60 000 and 100 000 goes a whole world of difference and it seems to us that we all live well with this lack of data quality. This year, schools were able to hire teachers without a master's degree in Education. The Minister announced that he wanted to give schools autonomy to hire 30% of teachers. I know you have addressed this subject, but I would like more detail: how many teachers without a master's degree in Education have been hired and, above all, in what pedagogical areas and geographical areas? And I wanted to know, in particular, how talks with the unions about the possibility of school directors hire a third of the teachers, taking into account the individual profile and the pedagogical project of the schools, because the Liberal Initiative will continue to defend very much the autonomy of the schools, particularly from the point of view of hiring the teachers. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u127	To reply, Mr. Minister for Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u128	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, of course, none of us live well with the lack of teachers, as is evident and as I have already had an opportunity to explain. The honourable Member asks a question which is relevant on this apparent fluctuation of data. What happens is that we have weekly schedules that we fill and new schedules that are requested. We've had weeks before when the number of hours we've completed is refilled with new hour requests a few days later. And this sometimes generates this fluctuation in data, which is natural in a fairly dynamic system. On the other issue, trade union negotiations are under way. After the end of this month, we will have a new round with the unions. We also know — it is public — that trade union organisations have a lot of reservations about self-employment by schools. There we will be to dialogue, here we will be to discuss this matter, so that we can achieve the best possible result in negotiation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u129	Mrs Carla Castro continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u130	Mr President, Minister, I just want to make a brief note that that oscillation was even in the assessment of the beginning of the school year, so that is already more incomprehensible. The question of placement is natural. Another issue that wanted to bring the debate and which has been a concern for the Liberal Initiative — this school year was again a bad start of a school year — is special education. The Government Programme, presented in April this year, promised to bet on the implementation of the new system of inclusive education. This scheme provided for various types of measures—I will not now be exhaustive— has been implemented differently in various schools and has been the target of several critical interpretations from the point of view of potential injustices and inequalities. The survey of the FENPROF (National Federation of Teachers) recently, with the balance sheet of the four years of the 2018 decree, reveals the difficulties of students, in particular to be cared for in their specific needs, in their individual needs, and the lack of training in teaching and non-teaching staff. Finally, one theme that seems to be quite neglected is the relationship between the life of young people with disabilities in compulsory post-schooling. So, on this subject, I have a few specific questions, in particular: to what extent is the implementation of this new system of inclusive education? Can you effectively guarantee us concrete data on this implementation in terms of deadlines and inequalities? Is the Ministry of Education articulating with schools the creation of a true transition plan between school and community structures? If so, how? It is that the integration of these students, also with the support of their families, is absolutely essential. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u131	To reply, Mr. Minister for Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u132	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, few legislative pieces are as ambitious and demanding as the Legal System of Inclusive Education. A path has been taken to follow schools, to work quite differently in schools and to strengthen means and resources for inclusive education. The legislation — and indeed all the legislation we have produced on education in recent years — provides for monitoring times and provides for an impact assessment at the end of six years. This monitoring was made and we asked two entities, the European Agency for Special Needs and Inclusive Education and the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ), the evaluation of the project Strongth through Diversity. these two evaluations resulted in a set of recommendations, two of them very robust, on training needs, needs to review the school's own organization, so that the whole school is an inclusion space, and training needs aimed also at specific methodologies in the classroom. This training was developed over the past few months and is starting on the ground right now, and this month there have been the first sessions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u133	Mrs Carla Castro continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u134	Mr President, Mr Minister, I will note: 'training','school reformulation' and 'effective methodologies', which is even a very urgent issue. The last point is about bureaucracy. Here, too, the Liberal Initiative defends misburocratization and, above all, the focus on the essential. Teachers must be focused on teaching, being with children and young people as long as possible, on learning recovery and obviously having time for themselves, even for training. We know that Mr. Minister, even as Secretary of State, also had concerns about this issue, the issue is concrete actions. As regards concrete actions, I would ask you to tell me, particularly for this school year, what has already been done, what is being done and what is planned for the next few days, and I did not want you to give me answers from working groups or digitisation, please. Fill in a role or fill in a screen is different in working method and has an impact on other services, but for the teacher digitization does not free time. Therefore, if we want teachers effectively focused on their essential task, releasing bureaucracy is fundamental. I would like concrete answers at this level, please. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u135	In reply, Mr. Minister of Education, João Costa, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u136	Mr President, Madam Member, I will use my 39 seconds, given the lack of tolerance of Mr President. I would like to answer the following: next week, Mr. Secretary of State will start a set of meetings with schools, with coordinators of class directors and with managers of classes to identify redundancy and tasks that do not translate into anything positive or useful for the pedagogical activity of teachers, to start doing this survey and effectively reduce bureaucracy in schools. I agree with you, we are not talking about replacing a paper with a platform, but about eliminating useless tasks. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u137	Mr. Minister, for the CFP Parliamentary Group, has the floor Mr. Alfredo Maia.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister of Education, one month after the beginning of the school year, more than 38 000 students remain without a teacher at least one discipline. As is known, the Government has not created measures to attract and fix teachers in the regions where they need them, and the PS, supported by the PSD, has also led a set of measures presented by the CFP, aimed at supporting specialized teachers and technicians displaced, in particular in terms of transport and accommodation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u139	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u140	The scenario of worsening the lack of teachers is confirmed. Until the end of this month, Minister 1902 teachers should retire and in November they should be more than 205, which totals 2107 new retirees. If, in December, they came out in the order of two hundred, this year they will retire-CL - more than 2300 teachers — the largest number, after the year 2013, when they left the activity 4628 teachers. By now, Mr Minister, next year, this number may exceed 3000.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u141	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u142	On the other hand, the placement of 3000 teachers with incapacitating disease or disabled patients, who were on a mobility-by-disease basis, continues to be unresolved. As regards these, it is confirmed that there is no case-by-case assessment — the expression is not ours, Mr Minister — of each situation, contrary to what you have promised. It is appropriate to ask: when will the rights to health and work of these teachers be respected? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u143	Teacher training remains insufficient. If we take into account that the number of young people who entered the teacher training courses is about half of those who will retire this year, the next scenario is even very worrying. On the other hand, the system continues not to offer an attractive career and pay, not even working conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u144	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u145	Some questions are raised, Minister. For when is the extraordinary bonding of all teachers with three or more years of service? For when is the change of the norm-work, in the sense of entering the tables and in the career of teachers who perform three years of service? When is respect for the teacher’s working hours, clarifying what is the non-lethal component? When will the government comply with Law No 46 / 2021 and allow teachers of artistic techniques in a precarious situation to be linked? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u146	Serious difficulties are also identified in the recovery of learning damaged by the pandemic period. You need to hear who's in school. More teachers and other professionals and more educational means are needed. In fact, the number of students per class should be reduced. On the other hand, we emphasize the importance of psychological monitoring of children, essentially in terms of intervention in the field of mental health of children affected by the pandemic. The PCP insists on the need to open a process of collective bargaining, aiming at creating a career of its own, that of school psychologist, for which our party has already presented a bill, providing for its functional content. The CFP also insists on the need to resolve the unacceptable precariousness of specialized technicians — including psychologists, social workers, and even academic technicians — who are in schools, and of which they need, integrating them into appropriate careers. On the other hand, one side, on a subject raised here, concerning the importance of senior technicians, including psychologists, in mediation of interpersonal relations and in the prevention of violence in schools.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u147	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u148	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u149	I suppose I'll have time for another topic, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u150	Mr. Deputies, you have 5 seconds right now.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u151	So, Mr President, on this subject too, the CFP has tabled a motion for a resolution with a view to the creation of new recruitment groups in the disciplinary areas corresponding to the teaching functions of specialized technicians and the opening of tenders for binding. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u152	To reply, Mr. Minister for Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u153	Mr President, Mr President, by going directly to the relevant issues you have raised, I would like to make it clear that, in relation to the measures for attraction in the most deprived territories, there was our commitment that, when there were no candidates for incomplete hours, we would increase these hours for full hours. We have committed ourselves to making this increase for the Lisbon and Algarve regions and for the recruitment groups with greater difficulties in placement, but we have done so for all the regions of the country and for all the recruitment groups. This has led us to increase 647 hours, since the end of August, in all recruitment groups and across the continent. of these 647 hours completed, or increased, were occupied 543, i.e., as I said in the initial intervention, would have been left without teacher 543 hours that are currently occupied. I also remember and confirm — he asked me to confirm — that, from the result of mobility for disease, in fact, there had been an indication of us that we could carry out case-by-case analyses of requirements that would come in. The legality of this assessment was questioned by the Secretary-General of FENPROF, in the Assembly of the Republic, when he said that this would be done outside the law, which led us to seek legal robustness, requesting an opinion from the JurisAPP, who categorically told us that this analysis would have no legal framework. However, it is worth saying that, contrary to what happened to disease mobility in the old model, situations of disability that happen after the beginning of the school year can enter at any time of the year, and we already have some cases in which it happened. I would like, on the questions that you raise about careers, to reaffirm what is also in the State budget. In other words, I would like to reaffirm that there is a commitment to the next State budget, in this negotiation process on the recruitment and placement of teachers, to begin by making a strict assessment of the system's permanent needs to have more direct links in school frameworks, without passing through pedagogical zone frameworks, by reducing the size of the pedagogical zone tables and by having several moments of extraordinary linkage of teachers throughout the legislature. I would also like to inform the honourable Member that we are already preparing the possibility of linking technicians from the artistic areas, in particular the two artistic schools that teach Visual Arts — Antonio Arroio, in Lisbon, and Soares dos Reis, in Porto — to finally regulate the situation of these professionals. Finally, as is also known, in the agreement with the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, a look is planned for non-teaching staff of schools, and in this context we are starting a work on the linkage and stabilization of specialized technicians in schools. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u154	To put Mr. Minister, by the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor of Mrs. Joana Mortagua.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u155	Mr President, Minister, it has already been said that the 2023 budget brings a reduction — I will not call it a cut — of 7 % in the education budget. These 7, 6 % correspond to approximately EUR 569 million. The Minister said that this money did not disappear and that he arrived at schools through the Financing Fund for Decentralisation. Now, it happens that this fund has more than EUR 372 million this year, that is, what comes out on the one side is less than what comes in on the other side. What I would like to ask you, Minister, is this: how much of the increase of the decentralization fund in the 2023 budget is destined for education? If there is a difference and these accounts are not certain, what are the accounts, in fact, from the Ministry of Education and from what is entered into the Decentralisation Fund? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u156	To reply, Mr. Minister for Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u157	Mr President, Mrs Decentralisation, with very specific figures, the State budget in the specific education programme has EUR 6933 million and the Decentralisation Fund has EUR 1091 million in the specific area of education. The final result, when we add to the education programme the funds devoted to education in the Decentralisation Fund, is that of a global budget for education of EUR 7952 million, the highest value of the last decade and that corresponds to this accumulated variation of a reinforcement of 44, 1% in the Budget and investment in education. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u158	To continue your inquiry, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u159	Mr President, Minister, I appreciate the explanations, but I am fortunate not to have been whipped with the Nuno Crato Mathematics programme and therefore I think I still understood what happened here. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u160	The Minister added the total of the Decentralisation Fund to the budget for education, but what I am telling you is that between what comes out of the education budget, compared to what came out of last year's budget, and what comes into the budget of the Decentralisation Fund, compared to last year, there is money that comes out of the education budget and does not enter the decentralization budget. Where's that money going? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u161	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u162	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is another simple answer. They leave the education budget EUR 690 million, enter the Decentralisation Fund EUR 1091 million. Well, what does that mean? A positive balance in the education budget...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u163	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u164	... of around EUR 300 million, corresponding to an effective rise in education of 3, 6 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u165	Mr Minister, to continue the inquiry, you have the floor of Mrs Joana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u166	Mr President, Minister, I do not want to insist, but I have the table in front of me. What exists in the Decentralisation Fund is EUR 1200 million, which represents an increase over the last year of EUR 372 million. Compare this year's balance with the total back from the Decentralisation Fund, are not accurate accounts. I understand that at the moment the Minister has no answer to this question, but we will have an opportunity to do it in the budgetary debate, because there is a problem here, since the accounts are not striking certain between what comes out of the education budget and what enters the Decentralisation Fund this year. I read with attention the interview that Mr Minister gave yesterday, I listened carefully to his speech today and I think that somehow this budgetary problem is linked to the pile of old news that has been presented for old public school problems, and one of them is, of course — has been mentioned here — the lack of teachers. The media highlighted two words of Mr. Minister who put me in the head: 'Minister declares war on illegal medical casualties' and 'John Costa criticizes higher education for the lack of new teachers'. What I realized from these highlights was that the Minister of Education was very quick to distribute blame for the lack of teachers to teachers themselves for the medical casualties that exist. This, when we know perfectly, on the one hand, that the number of casualties in education is not so much higher than that of the other public function and, on the other, that the state of health and aging of teachers often justifies these casualties. We also know that the issue of higher education influences the problem of lack of teachers, but it is not an issue that has immediate resolution, nor is it the one that can, more directly, influence the problem of lack of teachers. With regard to casualties, I wanted to say the following: I have seen other governments and other ministers do this, i.e. creating mistrust on teachers, on the medical casualties of teachers and on the conditions in which teachers work. I have even seen the current Minister of Finance, Fernando Medina, lie about the teachers' career, the way they evolved and their claim to retroactive. What I did not expect was a similar attitude of Prof. João Costa. These factors, the lower and higher education, do not hide the problems of wages, careers, precariousness, support for travel—which do not exist! — and working conditions. What I ask you, Minister, is if you think these issues have nothing to do with the lack of teachers, to the point that there is no resolution for them in this budget. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u167	In reply, Mr. Minister of Education, João Costa, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u168	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you that, in addition to not being whipped by a math programme, you did not benefit from the training in Literacy of the Media, the literature of the information that exists today in our schools.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u169	Pumba!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u170	And why? Because he could eventually read beyond the headlines of the news and could dive deeper into what he reads in newspapers.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u171	It's over!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u172	First, what I did was an appeal rather than a criticism to higher education institutions to open more vacancies in teachers in teaching, to reopen teachers in education in institutions in which they are closed because, indeed, this year, the number of candidates for teachers in teaching increased and we had several students with grades up to quite high to stay out. Similarly, Mrs Deputy, reading titles and not hearing, I have no war against anything, but a set of measures that also go through the fact that today we have teachers in much higher pay positions thanks to the defreezing of careers, they go through a commitment to the reduction of precariousness, they go through a commitment to reducing the travel of teachers in the territory, which are effective measures for the attractiveness of careers. Lower issues are not to create distrust. In fact, I have said, and I repeat, that I do not want to cast hints of distrust on anyone. However, there are problems of absenteeism, there are problems that are to solve, there are hired teachers who are penalized by some medical low standards and, above all, it is necessary to act, and not to whistle on the side and to realize that there are no. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u173	For the PAN Parliamentary Group, to speak to Mr Minister, Mr Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, other members of the government, before addressing the questions I bring up, I cannot fail to answer Mr André Ventura, from arrive,... [[Again?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u175	... noting that we will bring LGBTQIA +( lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transgender, queer, intersex, sex and others to the table) because, by the way, you do not know what gender self-determination or gender identity is. The speaker displayed a poster entitled Gender Identity.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u176	Don't waste any paper!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u177	That spoils the trees, let it be quiet!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u178	As the NAP was one of the first parties to bring to this House an initiative... [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u179	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to let the honourable Member speak and even display your poster with all freedom. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u180	Thank you very much, Mr President. We will bring the Bureau to the table so that the concept of gender identity is distributed to Mr Andre Ventura and to the Arrival, because we must respect all people in their identity and plurality. [[Protests by CH Member Rita Matias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u181	They're killing the trees!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u182	As far as this debate is concerned — and, from now on, Mr Minister, address to you our compliments — we have brought up the question of special education in Portugal, which has been the poor parent in education. We speak of 470 children who, due to lack of public offer, are in private special education schools. That is to say, there is not sufficient follow-up of supply in the public network, and these private schools are also experiencing serious difficulties and are at risk of closing at the end of this year. This is because the support given by the State does not cover the total cost, per student, that is paid by schools—and we speak of a support of €511, which has not undergone any change since 2008. Until this year, these €511 were static, but inflation brought a point of unsustainability and, if nothing is done, many of these schools will have to close. If this happens, we can say that the State will fail in its responsibility to ensure full integration to all citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u183	Mrs. Member, your time is up.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u184	I really am concluding, Mr President. I ask you, Minister, if you are available to increase this value at least at the inflation rate to €750.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u185	In reply, Mr. Minister of Education, João Costa, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u186	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think the answer will be shorter than the short time the honourable Member has given. Yes, the State budget for 2023 provides that we start a work for the revision of values, not only for special education colleges, but also for inclusion resource centres. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests of CH Deputies.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u187	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor to speak on behalf of the Free Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u188	Then, when the girls start being harassed in the spa, I want to see your feminism, Mrs. PAN's deputy!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u189	We will do a little bit here before Mr Rui Tavares uses the floor, calling for the necessary conditions to be created so that the honourable Member can, in full, and with all sovereignty... [[CH protests.]] Looks like it's not yet... [[Pause.]] Now, yes, sir, be kind.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u190	Mr President, it is indeed extraordinary that the only group that has news about violence against teachers in their own parliamentary group, published and never denied,... [[PS Members' laughs.]] ... you think it is right, in full parliamentary debate on education, for example, to stigmatize a part of our population, and that this becomes clear. And, above all, it is extraordinary that they are working, beyond the parliamentary parts, to prevent other speakers from speaking, and the offender is benefiting. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u191	I would like to respect the speaker. Mr Rui Tavares, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u192	Mr President, as you know, not abuse of the role of the Bureau of inquiry on the conduct of the work, but certainly I would not like to make it clear what others have left out of it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u193	What's the question? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u194	Minister, when is the universality of pre-school at the age of three? It was in the PS program, but last week the PS voted against the proposal of the Free that proposed it. Why does it not advance the linkage of all teachers with three or more years of service and what are needed in schools? The PCP also asked this, but the answer was not enlightening. Mr. Minister spoke of the National Plan of the Arts. I would like to know what its scope is and how many schools are being applied.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u195	The Minister of Education, João Costa, has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u196	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have been increasing pre-school education rooms year after year. This year we have more than 167 pre-school education rooms, allowing us to have a coverage of around 100 % and around 82 % over the next three years. It is mainly in large urban centers that we have not yet fully covered, but we have a very positive, reported evolution in the Education at a Glance report, in which Portugal is above the OECD average in the pre-school education coverage between 3 and 6 years. The question about the application of the norm-work is clear: all teachers who have had three full annual hours have been linked, and we have been linked beyond the norm-work. this year, there were about 3,500 teachers who linked. About the National Plan of Arts, he's three years old. It started with 69 schools and today there are more than 450 groups to develop the National Plan of Arts, with resident artists, with school cultural projects, with articulation between cultural entities and cultural organizations and schools, in a perspective of great interconnection with the curriculum. In other words, so that art is not something decorative in school, but something that goes deep into student learning. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u197	To finish the first round of questions, you will use the floor by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Porfirio Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u198	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, Minister, Minister, Secretary of State, this debate has gone a long way and many relevant issues have been raised, but I cannot help but make a reference to the fact that some want to sell the idea that there was chaos at the beginning of this school year. I have here a newspaper page of October 12, 2014 with the title « The history of the teacher who was placed in 75 schools after quitting the contest ». The speaker displayed the document he mentioned. It was the famous ECB ( School Contraction Exchange ), which on the same page, the President of the National Association of Contracting Teachers ranked as follows: « The MEC created a monster. Do not keep on seeking. ” But I have two more pages on the start of the same school year. The speaker displayed the documents he mentioned. Only in two pages is read: « half a million students do not have all the teachers », according to FenPROF ; 'schools in artistic schools in full only in October' ; and 'outside of'school offers' brought competition from specialized technicians'. Nothing better to comment on this tragedy in an act than the title that the Public chose, with a quote from the then Prime Minister on the situation in education. at this time we talked about education in this way: "Increasing the educational sausage does not mean good educational results. Do not keep on seeking. ” That's how you were talking about education at that time. That was chaos! And--no! — do not apologize to the history of the troika, because the troika did not make everyone suffer either. You have chosen certain areas to penalize especially. In the case of education, as in the case of health and other social areas, you cut EUR 1300 million above what was foreseen in the Memorandum of Understanding. So stop, once and for all, with the apology with the troika. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Member Antonio Cunha.]] But we won't waste any more time on the bad examples of the past, we'll turn to the future. And that is why we are turning to the future that we have entered into in our electoral programme — the one that made us elected — and in the Government Programme, consecutively, the challenge for a new social pact for education. A social pact for education is not an appeal to artificial consensus, it is a challenge to our collective capacity to build the convergences necessary to comply with the constitutional right to education. Convergences — not unanimity — around strategic factors such as combating inequalities through education, a quality education for all, such as good governance of education at all levels, such as working with education professionals, which have both given to this country, as well as strengthening the participation of students in the educational process and in the management of schools. A strong feature of a new social pact for education must be trust in schools, trust in professionals. In recent years we have made enormous advances in the curricular and organizational autonomy of schools and we commit ourselves, in the electoral programme and in the Government programme, to continue this path, to take new steps with pilot experiences of administrative and financial autonomy and to work so that the decentralization of competences for local power means more, and not less, autonomy for schools. But — and here comes the question I would like to ask you, Minister — this reinforcement must have consequences, for example, as is now discussed at the initiative of the Government, that schools can choose a part of their teaching staff. This cannot be just demultipling a national list into local lists. That would not be enough, nor appropriate. We must allow a school, having its own, specific projects, to recruit the necessary skills for these projects, to this specificity. It is necessary that the teaching body of a school be an instrument of its identity as an educational institution, which values the diversity of educational projects, the diversity of responses to the local context, to the concrete students of each school and that, for this, the school can seek the teaching skills appropriate to these projects. Each school is an institution of the community, it is not a division of a ministry. Therefore, it requires that you have your own life, that you have room for manoeuvre to seek out professionals capable of valuing their diversity, their identity. Of course, all of this has to be done with a transparent process for the whole community. It has to go hand in hand with more stability for teachers, more stability for educational teams, more stability for educational projects, but if we want to place confidence in schools and professionals, the autonomy of schools as institutions of the local community and the educational community, it is essential to place this issue in the centrality of this social pact for education. What I ask you, Minister, is what we are going to do in this direction. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u199	To reply, Mr. Minister for Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u200	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in fact, when we talk about a social pact for education, we talk about several pieces. First of all, we are talking about a definition of educational policies in dialogues, in multiple dialogues, in which we have heard everyone. We have heard the representatives of the teachers, we have heard this House, but we have also heard the representatives of the families, we have heard the students, with initiatives such as « The Voice of the Students», which we have come to develop and which are already in regular practice in schools. I speak of student assemblies, assemblies of class delegates, when there are schools that have, in their turn, a student as an adviser to the director. We have listened to the authorities, heard the inter-municipal communities and, above all, put our trust in those on the ground. Trusting those on the ground means investing a state of things we had in Portugal. It is sufficient to read some internationally comparable indicators to see that Portugal was, and I say, one of the countries where education was most centralized. The curricular decisions were central, the organizational decisions of school time were central, the decision of the allocation of technicians and teachers was—in the case of teachers is still! — absolutely centralised. In fact, the path we have come to take is a path of trust. Trust in the ability that schools have to develop differentiated educational projects, innovative, appropriate to the specificities of each context. Thus began in 2016 with the National School Success Promotion Program, with the strategic action plans of the schools in which, also in conjunction with the intermunicipal communities and metropolitan areas, we gave to the schools freedom to create. This is how we do, for example, with the school libraries, which have had countless — repeat, countless! — training actions and initiatives in schools to work in partnership with the school directors, with the different areas of the curriculum. This is how curricular flexibility instruments allow schools to merge between disciplines, which have different support. This is how we gave schools full autonomy in the management of the curriculum, which allows us to have quite diverse realities and richest in pedagogical experiences that we were used to knowing only in reports that showed what is done out there today. Now you get in here. This means, in fact, being able to trust, being able to bet close. The path that we are taking in decentralization of competences, with the proximity that exists between municipalities and schools, in confidence in local decision, represents steps taken in this direction. When we decide closely, we decide better. When we decide with specific knowledge of what is happening on the ground, the realities of the students, the realities of the territories, we respond better. Therefore, when we talk about the importance of this confidence, we must always talk about the importance of stability, which begins, from the beginning, in the educational teams. The possibility that we have been creating — in recent years with the full hours, this year with the incomplete hours — teachers who are placed in a school can continue to give stability to teachers themselves, to the school and to the work they develop. How many times they told us « invest in training for a project developed in this school and now I am obliged to go to another school, where this project has no continuity»! Therefore, stability is also to bet on the quality of our education system. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u201	To ask questions by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Aragão has now given the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u202	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, Secretary of State, any good psychologist knows — in education this has even more value — that the best predictor of future behavior is always past behavior. So what we saw here was past behavior as predictor of future behavior.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u203	So, we're screwed!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u204	There are always problems presented as if they were absolutely irresolvable truths, as if there were no solution to strictly nothing. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] But just make a history of these debates to understand what happened. How many times have these debates been about asbestos in schools? Let's fix it. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] How many times have these debates been about only building in schools? In resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u205	That's all I needed! Right now!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u206	How many times have these debates been about school textbooks? They stopped being. How many times have these debates been about psychologists in schools? They stopped being. In politics, the question is the same: problems are solved and the future is prepared and discussed openly. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u207	Get out of the bubble, go to the schools!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u208	Until why, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there's something we can't forget. It is that we cannot always be saying that we have the most qualified generation ever, the best-prepared students and then think it was the worst school in the world that prepared this generation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u209	Nobody said that!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u210	But it would also not be right for us to say that there is still not much to do. So we discuss the future and what really matters.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u211	Go outside, see what's in here!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u212	One of the things that matters to discuss, which has not even been addressed here, is the recovery plan of learning. Attention, there is only one plan for learning recovery because there was a pandemic, although it seems quite distant. So one of the questions I would like to ask you, Minister, is this: how is the recovery of learning programme implemented? It is essential for us to understand the school we want to build in the future, because it is always about what we should discuss. The school we want to build in the future is a digital school. Whether or not we like the expression, we like the way the world is evolving, that's exactly what's happening. That is exactly why in the Recovery and Resilience Plan ( PRR ) we made the forecast of EUR 500 million for digital school. And I am not talking about computers, which, in fact, have also generated a lot of discussion here, but which now do not generate any more.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u213	Let's talk about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u214	I'm talking about something very different, I'm talking about teaching-learning. What about the digital rooms we're going to have? What will be the curriculum matrix of the more than 300 disciplines we're going to have and what will we have to adapt? What will be the training of the teachers we have and will also have to adapt to the new generations and to the new requirements of teaching?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u215	I want to see how you're gonna do this without teachers! That's the problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u216	Mr Minister, my simple questions are about this, because it will be her who will be very busy in the future. How is the implementation of what is foreseen in the Recovery and Resilience Plan for this area of digitization? Eventually, what needs have we already had to meet? What did we have to correct? What did we have to improve? In fact, regardless of the discussion and tone that sometimes takes place in the discussion, the school of the future, this digital school, is really what we are going to be discussing in the next few years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u217	Mr President, I thank you for the rigour you've used your time. The Bureau, of course, and the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you. You now have the floor to answer, Mr Minister for Education.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u218	Mr President, Mr Bruno Aragão, the learning recovery plan is a consequence of the pandemic, but it is also a consequence of a work that has been developed by listening to the ground. This learning plan results in a great hearing that we made to schools, in which we were asked, above all, more autonomy to create solutions appropriate to the consequences of the pandemic in each context. The learning recovery plan, an investment that mobilizes more than EUR 130 million, has allowed to strengthen the school's hourly credit; it has enabled the number of hours for multidisciplinary teams to support inclusive education; it has enabled schools with more than 1200 technicians who are increasing the personal, social and community development plans; it has allowed the creation of more than 650 live science clubs to increase the experimental education of science; it has allowed access to digital platforms to address specific difficulties in reading development. The learning recovery plan consists of a single monitoring axis, which is under way. We have done a survey of the actions of the schools and we have made a second monitoring of the perception of the effectiveness of these actions, in which we have reported that there is a great work dedicated to reading skills that is generating very good results and that the Personal, Social and Community Development Plans — the work of these technicians — are generating very good results. We have had measuring instruments — the results of the measurement tests — and we will repeat the Diagnostic Study of Learning, which was done soon in the first year following the pandemic. Obviously, we are always looking at these results as tools to see the main areas of intervention to follow and the balance sheet is always being made, it is always being monitored. We will also enter a phase of qualitative analyses, surveying, describing, of the measures taken in 50 schools, identifying those that have the greatest effectiveness, so that we can work with more detail and disseminate these practices by the other schools. With regard to digital school, I wanted to say that this investment has a total value of EUR 500 million up to 2025 for strengthening equipment and resources. As you said, all computers have already been delivered to schools and we also have a teacher training programme in digital and pedagogical skills for a good integration of digital in the classroom, which has already formed 70,000 teachers in our schools this past year and a half. at this moment, we are already preparing competitions—and applications by schools themselves—for the installation of 1300 digital education laboratories, therefore, rooms equipped to develop digital skills in the areas of robotics and programming, and also to support the curricular transformations we have made, with the introduction of computational thinking in the mathematics curriculum, and competitions for the improvement of the quality and speed of the internet in schools. In the State budget for 2023, we have the forecast of EUR 17 million for all the reconditioning work and small repairs of computers that are already in schools. We have already delivered 15 000 computers to the administrative services of schools, in an overall investment of EUR 6 million, and we are also taking broad steps in the dematerialization of school textbooks, passing from 3000 to 12 000 this year the number of students using digital school textbooks. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u219	We will now move on to the second round, which will be initiated by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. To put questions, you have the floor immediately, Mrs Rosa Venâncio.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u220	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members, Portugal must be proud to have made a very consistent and credible journey towards the consolidation of vocational education in recent years. In fact, in the field of qualifications, a progressive investment has been made in the vocational education network, which results in a successive increase in the number of classes and offers, after the reduction started in 2012 / 2013. But this effort still needs to be strengthened to achieve the commitment to increase the number of young people and adults entering vocational education. The size and evolution of the demand of students and families by this way of teaching alone justify our collective commitment to the establishment of public education and training policies in order to dignify them. It is therefore important to ensure: the value of the network and the increase in the attractiveness of its training in the fields of specialization requiring highly qualified labour;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... the appreciation and certification of educational establishments that teach professional courses according to European standards of reference for quality assurance for vocational education and training; the valorization of alternative paths for access to higher education, ensuring equity with regard to the conditions defined for the continuation of studies; and, above all, the preparation of young people and adults to develop and acquire skills for emerging challenges in the labour market and their setting in the territories. Mr Minister, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group welcomes the government's commitment to the Recovery and Resilience Plan to give a new impetus to vocational education, through the provision of EUR 480 million to modernise educational establishments with education in four areas of technological specialization, namely industrial technology, renewable, digital and computer energy. The creation of 365 specialized technological centres up to 2025, in different territories and in schools of the public and private network with professional education offer is an opportunity that cannot be wasted. Yeah, it can't be wasted! It is a commitment to dignify, value and increase the demand and attractiveness of this training offer and to give a more effective response to the country's aspirations to increase the qualification rates of young people and adults with low qualifications. Yes, it is a commitment to the much-needed lifelong learning in order to combat social and gender inequalities and to increase the resilience of employment. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u221	Mr Minister, considering that the period of analysis of the first phase of applications for the approval of the first technological centres is taking place, we would like, from the data available to the Ministry at this time, to discuss the merits for the system of general education of the implementation of these thematic centres, in the short, medium and long term, in the different territories of the country. Finally, by evaluating this phase of applications, we would like to know if they need to implement improvements in the next expected phases. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u222	To answer the questions that Mrs Rosa Venâncio has put, Mr. Secretary of State for Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u223	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the first good news that I think we all need to be aware is that the number of students enrolled in vocational courses has been increasing over the past four years, and this year we are living is no different, because this year too this number has increased. I believe that this should fill us with pride, all of us, regardless of what we may have as to how to do it. We are, I think, all congratulations. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Regarding specialized technological centres, I would like to remember exactly why they were, or are, created. First, to improve the conditions of teaching-learning in concrete, whether in our secondary schools or in our professional schools, which need to modernize their equipment and, in many cases, bring them to the 21st century. Therefore, it was to improve the conditions, modernize the equipment, modernize the facilities. Obviously, it was also to respond to the needs that people and businesses, in particular in certain territories, have and that often were not able to be answered by what was actually available, depending on what existed in schools. Finally, and it is not just — for me, it would be enough — to support vocational education as a measure of first choice and not, as we had in the past, as a measure to which only those who had plummeted could reach at least twice. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are well remembered—not so long ago! — the extraordinary result of this at the time. In fact, at least 365 technological centres are planned to be set up. In the first phase 108 were concerned and the number of applications was 311, which indicates an extraordinary effort of teachers, directors, schools, but also of the authorities that have given their support to creation, as we can see at the candidacy stage to these centers. There are almost enough applications for all of what is planned in all CIMs (intermunicipal communities) and in both metropolitan areas, and we are sure that this competition will be a huge success and that we will also be able to significantly improve the capacity of our responses to be those we need. Obviously, as any learning entity — if the school learns, the Ministry of Education has an obligation to learn, and learns — we will be able to evaluate the first phase of applications and then draw conclusions regarding any improvement needs, either as regards the number of technological centres concerned, or their distribution by type, or as regards its distribution by territory, or as regards its distribution by the recipients initially intended. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u224	For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, Mrs Palmira Maciel has now given the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u225	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, early in his speech, he stated that inclusion and combating inequalities is a priority. And he said more, he said we have an increasingly qualified country. Yes, Minister. Yes! The Government of the Socialist Party has taken life-long learning as a strategic design for the next decade and has recognized that broadening access to training is crucial for this to be a cross-cutting reality. The priority given to lifelong learning has been strengthened in the European agenda and in the public policies of the different Member States with the aim, defined by the European Commission in the Action Plan of the European Pillar of Social Rights, to achieve, in 2030, 60 % of the annual participation of adults in education and training, and will now have a particular focus, over the next year, with the European Commission proclaiming 2023 as the European Year of Skills. The improvement of the qualification of persons, including in the dimension of vocational qualifications, in particular those who, for various reasons, have not completed the minimum level of secondary education, is a reality and priority of this Government, given the need to raise the basis of adult qualifications as one of the essential conditions for the valorisation of active democratic citizenship and for the sustainable development of the country. More qualifications make people more useful and effective, increase self-esteem and make people freer. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in this context, the Qualifica Programme has been assumed in recent years as the return of the bet on the qualification of the adult population, encouraging investment in the approximation of hundreds of thousands of people to qualification, notably by promoting the recognition of skills and learning and the adequacy of training courses to the profiles and needs of individuals. In our country, the strategic approach to adult education and training policies has benefited from the tripartite understanding platform established with the signing of the Vocational Training and Qualification Agreement: A Strategic Design for People, for Companies and for the Country, which has created conditions so that the modalities of education and training can be a relevant part of a country's global development effort, which is important to take on and comply with. More recently, the Accelerator Qualifying Programme — which has not yet been discussed — which has a planned investment of EUR 55 million in the PRR, is one of the most substantive mechanisms for us to meet the challenges we are proposing, by considerably increasing the qualification of adults in Portugal. This programme, in parallel with other reforms of the regulatory framework that the Government has been promoting in this area, will create the fundamental ecosystem to enhance our ability to motivate the adult population in all areas of the country — I repeat, in all areas of the country — to seek more and better education. In view of its relevance to the future of qualifications in Portugal, it would be interesting for the Minister to be able to inform us in greater detail about the goals to be achieved with this programme and the additional resources that the Government intends to channel to achieve these same objectives. In addition to this area, it could not allow the area of inclusive education, which has been a major investment area in recent years, with the application of the legal framework. I know that the evaluation of this policy has been systematically carried out. My question is this: what are you planning to do to include the recommendations that have come from the various evaluations to which the public policies that have been developed in the field of inclusive education have been subject in order to reinforce what we all defend, that is, that is, no one is left behind? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Augusto Santos Silva took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u226	To answer, you have the word of Mr. Secretary of State for Education, Antonio Leite.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u227	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, indeed in front of the battle of adult education, there will be a lot of what we can do in the near future, not in a distant future or in scientific fiction, but in the future that begins today. Adult education needs to be deeply ingrained, even if it needs to be cared for, because the situation we are still living is on the one hand a long history, which seems to have already been forgotten, but which continues to have an effect on our daily lives, but also on a more recent past, that is, well present in our memory, in which it has been abandoned, if it has been despised and simply left behind in no way all the mechanisms that existed to support adults who sought to improve their school qualifications and their professional qualifications. I know that some here don't like to be reminded of their responsibilities, but they exist and must be taken over by everyone and by everyone. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Qualifica programme, as Mr President has already announced, reached a million certifications last August, involving some 400 000 Portuguese, which is in sharp contrast to previous years, in which we have reached below 300 certifications. We have 1 million certified people, since there is the Qualifica Programme, 1 million certifications, reaching about 400 000 people. The Accelerator Qualification incentive is exactly supporting those and those who, perhaps not yet fully motivated, are strange, but that is true, so that they can actually join this programme. The goal for the year 2022 was 30 000 people covered and what I can tell you is that at the moment this goal is largely exceeded, because it is already more than 44 000 people who have obtained a certification under this programme. They are, in fact, citizens and citizens who need our support, are having our support and also have a financial instrument at their disposal, which amounts to about 500 € for each person who has made his entire project. Also local development projects aimed at finally putting on the ground the National Adult Literacy Plan, because, in addition to having a significant lack of education, we still have many people who do not know how to read and write and who have been abandoned and cannot continue in this situation. It is necessary to support these people, I would say that, basically for two reasons, and that I am sufficient for the second: it is certainly necessary to continue to bet on adult education in order to strengthen our economy, but, above all, it is necessary to continue to bet on adult training, because it is fair for these men and women. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u228	We now turn to the questions of the PSD Parliamentary Group and begin by giving the floor to Mrs Inês Barroso. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u229	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members, in the context of decentralization of competences, the Sectoral Agreement on Commitment between the Government and the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities was signed last July. The third clause of the School Recovery/Rehabilitation Programme document is complemented by a mapping of 451 schools, whose funding for intervention is the total responsibility of the Government. In a pragmatic way, Mr Minister, about the 32 schools that have been identified with the very urgent level of priority, where thousands of students, teachers, technical and operational assistants work under very bad conditions, I ask: what is the situation with regard to the financing of this programme? What is the situation with regard to the transfer of funding to municipalities? And finally, have we started the works? We are concerned, Minister, because if with schools in need of very urgent intervention serious measures and diligence are not taken, neither do we imagine the repercussions that can happen here with the schools identified only as priority. Mr Minister, let us talk about something we consider to be incomprehensible, I repeat, incomprehensible. at this time, in mid-October, schools still do not have the 2022 budget nor have they received the balances of the previous management — no doubt! — January to October 2021.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u230	Shame! Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u231	Obviously, the fact that the Budget was approved late involved delays in the administration mechanism — right! — but, Mr Minister, it is not acceptable for the Government to require schools to still manage funds which can only be for current management rather than for investment under the conditions of school frequency. We refer to the appropriations from the private budget, which also includes the amounts of the funds allocated by the municipalities for the management of schools. Therefore, schools have no way of investing in what they need for their operation. That is, Minister, the State, the Government of the Socialist Party is withholding thousands of euros from schools.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u232	It's the captivating!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u233	It was only now, at the end of September / October, that the schools, groups, could request the money, but it will only be at the end of October that they will be able to receive it. Then they have less than two months to spend on them, because they will have to return the unexpended amounts before the end of the year for the account balances to return to zero.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u234	What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u235	It's Kafkiano, Minister! I recall that until the last PSD Government, this was returned in March, April, accompanied by the submission of the budget for the following year. With the PS government, schools came to receive late, they are receiving these amounts in June/July, and it has always been more and more later. This year, and I mean the calendar year, we are in the tenth month of the calendar year, the return has not yet been completed. The pandemic or the late adoption of the Budget cannot be an excuse for everything, Minister, as you have recently explained to the social communication. School groupings and directors deserve respect. In recognition of the proximity that Mr Minister has established with the groups of schools and with the principals of schools, as Secretary of State, let me respectfully ask him to be able to articulate with Mr Minister of Finance a timely information and agileization of procedures that allow true autonomy to schools, which have worked so much for the children and students of our country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u236	To reply, Mr. Minister for Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u237	Mr President, to whom I welcome Mrs Inês Barroso, I answer the two concrete questions she raises on the process of decentralization, beginning with the start of her speech. In fact, it was done in conjunction with ANMP, with the municipalities, the mapping of the schools to be intervened, with different degrees of priorityization. The Minister of Territorial Cohesion has already announced that the notice of opening the competition is almost ready for the projects of the first schools to be intervened, so that we have already begun, in fact, to carry out the work that is associated with this work. The decentralization process also provided for an update on the value of meals. We are doing not only what is already planned in the State Budget for 2023, but also updating the values of meals from this school year and forecasting subsequent updates, depending on the values of inflation. The same is true of school transport for children with locomotion needs, whose financing formula we are also negotiating with ANMP as well as everything related to maintenance, as I said recently, and school equipment. This is therefore a process in which we have had a very productive dialogue with the authorships, with the National Association of Municipalities, and in which we are in fact giving great financial reinforcement to the authorities, in the capacity to monitor the work of schools. I repeat the example I gave recently: we passed an average value per school for maintenance, which was about €19 000, almost €20 000, to an average value of €44 000 for school maintenance.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u238	It is not €44 000, it is €31 000!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u239	On the issue of the provision of balances to schools, there is no excuse: in fact, we have a State budget which entered into force in July; at this time, all the funds are already required, the requests for balances are already validated, and the transfer of balances to schools is already beginning. Obviously, what we want is that, in 2023, with a State budget coming into force on 1 January, we do not have a delay like what we had this year. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u240	It's not 44 000, it's 31 000!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u241	To put your questions, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, you now have the floor of Mrs Carla Madureira.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u242	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State, Mr Minister, this morning, in this long discussion on education, we talked about inclusion. We all want inclusion. But, you know, Minister, inclusion cannot only be made by decree and it seems this time that according to what the Minister has already said, now it will be. There are children with educational needs, some of them very severely, to which the regular school cannot respond. When the regular school cannot respond, these children are referred, by the Ministry of Education, to special education schools. And these special education schools are not, as the Secretary of State for Inclusion says, warehouses of people with disabilities. We know these schools, we have been there, we know the work that is done, we know the joy and satisfaction of students and their families. Mr Minister today said that they are now going to start responding to this concern that is afflicting parents, education officers and these students. Mr Minister, I have already asked you, in this Parliament, and I will do so again today, in front of the country: can these parents, Minister, remain calm? Will your ministry include updating these funds, whose absence is suffocating these colleges in the State budget for next year? Is it this time, Minister? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u243	To reply, Mr. Minister for Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u244	Mr President, Mrs Carla Madureira, the answer is simple: yes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u245	Good!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u246	As I had already answered,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u247	No, I said I'd start!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u248	... I think that Mrs Carla Castro — no, she went to Mrs Inês Sousa Real — is provided in the State budget for 2023 for the updating of cooperation contracts with special education colleges, which, in fact, give a very important answer to children and young people with deep and severe disabilities. There are about 470 young people in the country who benefit from these offers. Let me also inform you that the contracts were concluded this year and that the concrete situation of some colleges was discussed in August and it was agreed that there were conditions for the colleges to be in operation. But more important than that is, in fact, this entry in the State Budget for 2023 for the updating of the funds for special education colleges, for the Inclusion Resource Centres (CRI), another area in which the value of therapies has to be updated, and also for the work we are doing with the social and solidarity sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u249	To put your questions, by the PSD Parliamentary Group, you now have the floor of Mrs Cládia André.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u250	Mr President, Minister, Secretary of State, Minister, I am sorry, but I will have to contradict a little what we heard from the PS bench. The PS board speaks of the success of digital implementation, however, I must remember that the Court of Auditors, in its Report No 19, which relates to the audit of computer acquisition, reports that computer contracts were deficient and the planning and distribution of late. The same report also tells us that more than EUR 1 million has been hired in student laptop connectivity services, and they have not been used. Therefore, the measures were not so beautiful or implemented as successfully as they want to make believe. Likewise, in relation to the recovery of learning, we do not see that they are succeeding. OECD identified Portugal as the country that did nothing to mitigate the learning gaps resulting from the pandemic, right after the first confinement. However, in June 2021, the Ministry presented a plan that pushes schools to "make eggless omelettes". In July of this year, the Council of Schools concluded something which was not said here by the PS, as it is evident, in particular : that situations of inequality in the national territory have been aggravated ; that support in paragraph 1. the cycle was ineffective, since teachers had to be affected to other areas, such as the replacement of missing teachers; that there was unlinking of the hours of teachers affected to the implementation of the measures of Plan 21 23 School + to ensure the lack of teachers in full classes and therefore the ministry has not carried out monitoring of the monitoring plan of all schools and all students. Only then could we have any idea of the size of this problem. Thus, IAVE studies ( Institute of Educational Assessment, I.P. ) will, as it is evident, be little revealing. Despite this, however, they show large gaps in learning and recovery, with regard to the use of students. So I ask you, Minister : the government will make a total assessment of learning, especially to the students of 1. o is 2. or Cycles? I ask you, too: will it strengthen the resources aimed at learning recovery, considering the evidence of national examinations and measurement tests or will it maintain the same resources attached to this plan? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u251	To reply, Mr. Minister for Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u252	Mr President, Mrs Cláudia André, the honourable Member says, on the one hand, that we do not monitor and evaluate and, on the other hand, refers to IAVE studies as evidence for monitoring and recovery, but is part of our dialectics.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u253	That's what there is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u254	Let me start with that last point, and then I'll go to the digital school issues. I recommend that you read the latest OECD report, the Education at a Glance 2022, where the measures and the countries that have actually developed measures for learning recovery are set out. I remind you that by 2020, even before Plan 21 23 School +, there was a resolution of the Council of Ministers - which can read again - on support measures for the recovery of learning. There is also a more intensive programme, with an investment of EUR 130 million, only in human resources for learning recovery. There are also several monitoring studies, which are public, which have been disclosed and on which we have communicated, where there is a set of evidence. The honourable Member will then be able to take a closer look at them so that we can discuss what is to be done again. But there is no mistake. As Mr Bruno Aragon recently said, we have a learning recovery plan, because we had a pandemic, and the pandemic had an impact on learning results. Therefore, we really have to evaluate to intervene, and to evaluate to intervene means to draw illusions from the indicators we have. However, what IAVE has been doing in recent years, with the main focus in these years of the pandemic, is producing qualitative reports, including suggestions for didactic intervention to respond to the specific needs that are evident in the reports of tests of measurement and national examinations. We have recently published the five-year report of the Final Cycle Tests of 9. the year, which is designed exactly with this format. We need to look not only at global media, but at specific needs and suggest pedagogical activities directed towards these specific needs. Anyway, I thank you for having this substantive debate on education matters here. On the digital school, I would like to point out that, of course, the report by the Court of Auditors to which the honourable Member refers speaks about the time of the distribution of computers, when we were in full pandemic, and we all know the difficulties in the acquisitions and supply, due to the lack of computer production.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u255	Ah, there were difficulties after all!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u256	On connectivity, which is an important point, in fact, there were several connectivity kits that were not activated. We negotiated with the operators so that there would be a refund of the funds relating to unactivated connectivity kits, which have now migrated to the funding of connectivity for students with school social action, already during this school year. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u257	We are now passing on to the Parliamentary Group of the United States. To request clarification, Mr Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u258	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Minister of Education, at the beginning of his speech spoke in active citizenship and referred to attacks on freedom and democracy. We know that the final end of education corresponds to the type of society we want. That is why we need to define whether each of us, since childhood, is a reporter, an inquisitor, a dictator, or a politically correct, who is basically the same thing, that is, if we want a society in which we judge more than we understand, and "the more we think less we understand", as Max Weber said, or, on the contrary, if we want each of us to understand more than what he thinks, that each of us defends freedom of thought, absolutely free social criticism, all kinds of freedom, as well as a prosperous and dynamic society. I'm counting on your choice, Minister. In view of this, my first question is: why is Mr Minister so intransigent in defending the discipline of citizenship and development? The second question is whether you see risks of politicizing schools in this position. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u259	To reply, Mr. Minister for Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u260	Mr President, honourable Member, you already know the answer, but I will give it to you in the same way. Clearly, what I have said is the answer to the question. If we want a school that forms citizens, citizenship is made through knowledge, and knowledge is built from information. Without knowledge, there is no clarification. Without knowledge, aggression grows. Without knowledge, intolerance grows. Without knowledge, hatred grows and violence grows. Therefore, training for citizenship is to train for knowledge, for tolerance, for respect for diversity, for respect for multiculturality, for respect for difference, for respect for critical, free, creative thinking. I think this is done throughout the curriculum, and it is also done in the curriculum area of citizenship and development. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u261	Mr. Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro, of the Arrival, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u262	Mr President, Minister, did not touch the issue of politicization, where I had put the point. It is that successive generations of adolescents and young people leave compulsory education more or less as they used to leave catechesis, with God and the devil in their heads. This is: good left, bad right; good minorities, bad majority; third good world, bad West; good poor, bad rich; good blacks, bad whites; good public, bad private; good republic, bad monarchy;... [[Congrats from the CH.]] ...good globalism, bad nationalism; good multiculturalism, bad identity cohesion. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u263	Minister, this is the opposite of civicism, that is the opposite of the construction of an intelligent society. This is to massify, through the school, primary formulas of inquisitional judgment. [[Congrats from the CH.]] What the Portuguese have to demand, and what arriving requires, is an ideologically neutral school. Max Weber called this axiological neutrality, because neutrality is the enemy of ideology. But, Minister, we will admit that the discipline of citizenship and development is useful, that it even teaches to think critically. Let's admit it. in this discipline will always be concerned moral and civilizational issues too sensitive, religious beliefs, the question of life and death, social identities, sexual or gender identity, racial issues, political options, out there. I even admit that the obvious doesn't exist, that is, there's no gender ideology. I'm even willing to admit that the obvious doesn't exist. The question is this, Minister : Does the Ministry of Education guarantee a teaching body with adequate academic and intellectual training to teach the subjects I refer to in the discipline of Citizenship Development? Can you guarantee that to the Portuguese? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u264	To reply, Mr. Minister for Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u265	Mr President, Mr President, obviously we did not attend the same catechesis, but I would like to say the following: who tends to paint the world black and white are not teachers in schools, in the development of the curriculum area of citizenship. We know who has tried to paint the world black and white here in this House. [[Who is it?]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u266	It's enough! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u267	But answer something there!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u268	I would also like to tell you the following: read the references of Education for Citizenship. But read carefully!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u269	It's better not to read! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u270	Don't read what they say you refer to us. In fact, don't read what some of your board colleagues say that's in the references... [[CH protests.]] ...and see where the doctrine is.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u271	There you go!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u272	There is no more dangerous doctrine than the movement of those gentlemen you support internationally called the School without Party, because the School without Party is a very dangerous ideological project, which eradicates the formation of children and young values that are, in fact, civilizational, such as respect for human rights, such as respect for difference, such as respect for diversity. [[Congrats from the PS and the BE Member José Moura Soeiro.]] On the concrete issue that we have, fortunately, because we have a very competent, very capable faculty, teachers who are in schools and who teach this curriculum area with great competence and we have also invested in teaching training in this area. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u273	To request clarification, Mr Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro of the Arrival has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u274	Mr President, Minister, often the worst ideologist is the one who does not assume that he is. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u275	They're the worst! The Ministry of Education, with the discipline of Citizenship and Development, is doing something serious, which is « selling cat for hare», i.e., objectively misleading families. I explain why. Many teachers are forced to teach subjects they do not want, within this discipline, because they know that they are not academically prepared for those complex themes I have mentioned. This is a discipline of enormous moral, civic, intellectual, civilizational responsibility and requires a solid academic preparation, for example, in History, Philosophy, Literature, Music, at least among others. And what we have in schools is this: we take a teacher who has sensitivity and is a good teacher in Mathematics or Physical Education and, contrary to his will, we command him to give this discipline, and he knows that he is not prepared for it. This can't happen! [[Congrats from the CH.]] More: We use this discipline to fill hours of teachers. « You have nothing to do? Oh, my God! So you're going to treat an absolutely sensitive discipline! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” And you know why teachers accept this? They accept this, because they have to put bread on the family table and give it up. [[Congrats from the CH.]] ... to symbolic violence of something that you do not admit to being called "cultural Marxism". [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u276	There are oppressed teachers with this discipline! Under these circumstances it is easy to impinge ideology through teachers. More: the family Mesquita Guimarães, of Famalicão, has reasons to remain to refuse their children to attend this discipline. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Even I think that many more Portuguese families have to wake up for this ideological abuse on the left,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u277	Fascism!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u278	...which is used by the Ministry of Education to manipulate an entire society. This has to end and enough of it will change! I have one more question to ask, which is this: does the Minister think that this discipline must be even universal and compulsory? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u279	To reply, Mr. Minister for Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u280	Mr President, yes, Mr Member, citizenship must be compulsory for all citizens in a free and democratic society. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u281	That's why people are running away to colleges!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u282	I asked you to take into account the teachers who work in schools, who are competent professionals, know what you are teaching. Does citizenship fill hours? Look, math too! When I assign Mathematics to a teacher, I am filling out his schedule, as happens with Portuguese, Physics-Chemicals, and all that. [[CH protests.]] On other comments you have made, I just have to say that respect for teachers also goes by saying to our children: "Don't miss school". [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u283	You have the floor now, Mr Mithá Ribeiro, who still has time. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u284	Mr President, Minister, respect for teachers is also respecting their intellectual and academic vocation! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u285	If a teacher has a vocation to teach Mathematics he does not have to be forced to teach gender ideology and other things like that! [[Congrats from the CH.]] There are teachers demotivated because of this. But just to conclude, in this game we are in — and you must already know, because we have insisted on this key — for us, education is family, education is state. The state teaches technical disciplines!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u286	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u287	Education belongs to the family! Citizenship and Development is at the border between the family and the state, it is in the middle, and therefore we think it should be optional. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The state must respect society! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Making such discipline mandatory is the principle of any dictatorship! And you do not see the option that they are imposing on society, on the choice of families, on the autonomy of society. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u288	To reply, Mr. Minister for Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u289	Mr President, honourable Member, the State and the family take on a complementary relationship in the education of children and young people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u290	We now move on to the period reserved for the Liberal Initiative. You have the floor to ask your questions, Mrs Carla Castro.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u291	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister for Education, now I want to return to the topic of medical boards. In August, the Ministry of Education made it public that it would advance with 7500 medical boards to verify, inter alia, mobility processes for disease. At the time, he also stated that there was a need for « surveillance over low standards, which are not as regular as they seem ». At the end of September, the social communication advanced that many of the boards had not yet been hired and the Ministry announced the intention to examine, on a case-by-case basis, the applications for mobility by illness of teachers who had not obtained placement. And today you have had the opportunity to comment here that, with regard to a legal opinion which was negative, you had to make some sort of waiting in relation to the fact that the procedure is illegal. However, many cases on this subject, very unfortunate, have come to light in social communication. We know that we are in a country full of bureaucracy, we know that there are several problems in the response in the area of health, the concerns lie, and I think it is very important to be very clear, because there are many teachers, many families and many schools for whom this is a matter of high concern. Therefore, I would quite frankly like to have very clear answers about the situation point of these 7500 medical boards, i.e. whether they are made or, if they are not, when they are done; if there are geographical areas with a lack of response capacity, namely geographical dispersion; and I would like you to state, please, in cases where teachers are waiting to go to the medical board, which is expected to happen to them.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u292	To reply, Mr. Minister for Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u293	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, the medical boards are already being hired. We do not have any news of lack of response in the competitive process in different regions of the country and will therefore begin to work now.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u294	Again, Mrs Carla Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u295	Mr President, I would like to return to the same subject: as regards the teachers concerned, what is the real situation?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u296	In reply, Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u297	Mr President, Member of Parliament, the process of mobility by illness of teachers took place within its own time limits. There was an opportunity, which was also given, to improve the applications, because several teachers had not had the opportunity to collect, as the honourable Member mentioned, and well, all the documentation, so the deadline for improving the candidatures was extended. These teachers were now notified and there were new processes for deferral of mobility by disease, depending on the completion of the information that was missing.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u298	Mrs Carla Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u299	Mr President, Minister, I understand that I will not insist on the subject. I note that, despite everything, there are no very concrete answers, particularly in terms of deadlines or when this process is supposed to end and have more objective data. I want to get back to the subject of fraud, which we've already talked about in plenary. The Minister has also already commented that, in principle, everyone is assumed to be honest, but it is important to use surveillance instruments. There are cases of complaint. And we have also had the opportunity to ask here, and it was not clear: do you know that there are cases of complaint, but, when there are not, what is done to detect abnormal patterns? As a matter of concern in recent weeks, in recent months, I ask you if you have updated data on established processes and results. It is that a spectrum has been launched on fraud and dust on teachers and it is important to realize what has been done, by the Ministry, in particular, to solve this issue and that, once and for all, everything will be clarified.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u300	In reply, Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u301	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reaffirm what I have already said, and the honourable Member has quoted me as saying: there is no dust, there is no indication of suspicion about who it is; there is, yes, what it is for the Administration, that is, before certain standards of absenteeism, to realize what is going on, and that is what we are doing. There have been some complaints, some complaints. When they arise they are referred to the General Inspection of Education and Science, and there have already been cases of referral to the Medical Order or medical boards to do the disease check. And that's why, too, this medical joint hiring occurs. at this time, because we are at the beginning of the school year, the volume is not yet expressive, compared to other school years. So being ahead of time would not have a lot of cabbage.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u302	Here... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u303	Those applauses have already been more to my 'has' than to the Minister's reply...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u304	They were in doubt! They didn't know very well if they should applaud!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u305	Mrs Carla Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u306	Mr President, just to finish this matter that you have focused on absenteeism. Absentism is also, himself, a reflection not only of the themes that he referred to, but of mental health, of all demotivation, values that we have already talked about. I wanted to know what the number of absenteeism rates in teachers, by typology, was updated and it is confirmed that it has increased compared to last year.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u307	To reply, Mr. Minister for Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u308	Mr President, Madam Member, according to the last survey we have, the rate of absenteeism is 8%. Eight percent.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u309	You may proceed, Mrs Carla Castro.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u310	Mr President, Minister, and, in terms of evolution, that means exactly what?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u311	You can answer that, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u312	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, this rate has remained stable over the years.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u313	To intervene, you have the floor of Mrs Carla Castro.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u314	Mr President, Minister, there is a general tone in which we do not see ourselves, which is that of some optimism in the evolution of the Learning Recovery Plan, of the autonomy of schools in the process of decentralization, in the process of assessments and measurements itself. A little while ago, he commented that there is data, but still recently, in a hearing with the CNE (National Council for Education), we realize that there is not a cross-sectional culture of data, and we need to be much more ambitious about it. I would like to say the following about teachers in general: we have had several discussions in plenary in recent weeks about the precarious situation, not in the sense that the Left Block and the PCP usually use the term « precarious », but in the sense of « fragile », in which teachers are found. I have also mentioned here that it is not enough to say that we value teachers, that we need to have a positive policy for teachers, so that it can happen. We just open the papers, just go to the schools and see that the situation is deteriorating. And what we have today didn't happen one day to the other. Ageing didn't happen overnight, demotivation didn't happen overnight, and the education policies of recent years have taken the school and the teachers more to a "hurdle streets" than to visions of hope. Today, we have also talked about many problems, such as fraud, absenteeism, issues that are not solved. In our view, in the view of the Liberal Initiative, it is not just a matter of urgency. There is a lack of a sense of urgency in relation to teacher education and policies, but there is also a lack of dignity in the teaching class itself. PS policies, with the governance arc of the Left Block and the PCP, more than to value, have devalued teachers. And, therefore, after another plenary session, the answer is not clear and we are dissatisfied. But I will give you the opportunity to give that answer, for the teachers who are listening to us, to keep them more hope in the future, and because the young people who want to go to the teaching career don't get out of here more excited. And we should be very much more focused not on the negative spectrum and the generic tone in which the debate here has often occurred, but rather on how a real vision of the future of the teaching profession could be guarded. I would like the Minister to give a clearer answer, particularly how young people can view being a teacher as a truly noble and dignified profession that the country needs. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u315	To reply, Mr. Minister for Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u316	Mr President, Mrs Carla Castro, I think your question is relevant: how do we communicate to the young people that we want to be teachers, and we all want it, and the virtues of this profession, which is also mine, although in higher education, as well as to the Secretary of State, as a teacher of basic and secondary education, which translates into the fact that neither of us is being replaced by another profession. And since we're not masochists, this means that it's worth teaching. In this context, there is a first step that is important, which is to give the country what is happening in Portuguese schools, and which is very good, instead of always painting dramatic and terrible scenarios about what is happening in schools. Our schools work well, have very interesting educational responses, have educational projects that place us in places of great comparability and high quality in the international context. That is why we are constantly receiving requests from delegations from other countries for visits to our schools and for what is happening here. It is not one, nor two, that is already dozens of countries who want to know the Portuguese education system. What has been done by the governments of the Socialist Party are answers to, firstly, reverse the path of reducing the number of teachers in schools and, secondly, negotiating the working conditions of teachers in the school year organization. in this sense, we increased the hours available for the management of the class, we integrated tutorials into the teacher's educational component, we worked on questions such as the hours of the teachers of the 1. the cycle, with the accounting of the intervals, reduced the precariousness, frozen the careers and hired more technical to support teachers in schools. There is something that can be said to young people: at the moment, anyone who enters the career as a teacher will find a frozen career; he will find a career with reduced precariousness; he will find a career in which currently 86% of teachers already have a permanent link to the education system — challenge Mrs Carla Castro to find many more liberal professions, with this level of binding; and he will certainly find a perspective, which is the one in which we are working, of stability and of fixing teachers in the territories. Taking advantage of greeting the young people who are in the galleries, I hope they get out of here excited and that in each of you there is a future teacher. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u317	We are now entering the period reserved for the PCP. To put your questions, Mr Alfredo Maia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u318	Mr President, Minister for Education, I would like to resume his speech on matters relating to other education professionals, beginning with the need to review the ratios of educational action assistants and technical assistants, which is another issue that concerns us, as you know. We well know that today they are under the jurisdiction of the municipalities, but the lack of staff in many schools or, even, the use of temporary work enterprises, confirm, among other things, the negative effects of the transfer of charges to the authorities, especially of creating inequalities for which the PCP has been timely and repeatedly warned.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u319	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u320	On the other hand, on the negotiation for the integration of specialised technicians in the municipalities—which Mr Minister referred to in the answer to the CFP, in the first round of questions of this debate—the CFP has already expressed its clear opposition.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u321	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u322	It does so in accordance with the positions it has always had and has no reason to abandon, in relation to the so-called 'decentralisation' of competences for authorities, in areas such as education, health and others which can only be the responsibility of the State, the central administration, in order to ensure equality, universality and social and territorial cohesion. in a sectoral debate on education, we also need to talk about the problems that affect students and families and those that affect learning conditions. As the CFP has mentioned on other occasions, there is a need to strengthen social action at school, even in view of the expansion of their steps, insofar as, today, almost only cover the very poor aggregates, but in fact, there are children of poor families who continue to be excluded from the support of social action at school.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u323	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u324	Thanks to the initiative and persistence of the CFP, it was possible to make school textbooks free of charge, but the guarantee of freeness of other materials, especially of the so-called « exercise card books », is still away. The deprivation of the right to gratuity of these materials represents, moreover, heavy burdens for families, as well as the existence of an element of inequality in learning conditions, which must be combated, insofar as the situations in which families simply cannot acquire them are frequent. The reduction in the number of students per class, making the teaching-learning process more effective and productive, is an objective that needs to be realized and deepened urgently. The guarantee of support for all children with specific educational needs, in particular with the hiring of professionals for the purpose and the acquisition and maintenance of educational resources, specific and adapted, is another objective to meet, and it is required, on behalf of a quality and truly inclusive school. Without wishing to interfere with the definition of programmatic content or essential learning, the CFP, in the perspective of the individual's integral training, intends to draw attention to the guarantee of recommended educational times, particularly in the discipline of history, paragraph 2. o is 3. or cycles. In fact, schools have been detected in which these recommended times are not observed, and there are even cases of only one time a week — a time, Minister! This seriously harms not only essential learning, but also the acquisition of fundamental skills for better understanding of the world and the development of the critical spirit of children and young people, who, in fact, are then projected in their adult condition and active element in society. On the other hand, to conclude, we question: for when is the implementation of Physical Education 1. the cycle? What about the end of curriculum enrichment activities and the creation of a national program of free time? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u325	To reply, Mr. Minister for Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u326	Mr President, Mr Alfredo Maia, I would like to say that what is envisaged in the decentralization agreement, I already see that with the opposition of the CFP, it is in fact the revision of the portfolio of ratios, not so much focused on operational assistants, because in the last State budgets, there was a great investment in strengthening operational assistants in schools, who have now migrated to the competence of municipalities, but with a careful look at technicians, because for example an area in which we know that there is a lack of technicians is the maintenance of computer equipment in schools. It is a need felt by all and it is something that we will be negotiating with the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities. We differ, it is known, about this catastrophic vision of decentralization of competences,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u327	The reality is that you're showing it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u328	... because the decentralization of competences generated a school year that started with absolute serenity, absolute tranquility. The Socialist Party and the Government believe that one of the great achievements of our democracy is the democratic local power, because local democratic power allows for proximity, allows local solutions, does not force us always to be dependent on Lisbon's authorization to "move a straw" in the territory, and also enables action to take place, rather than only a policy focused on the dispute. Therefore, the results are good, they are in sight and we trust the autarchs, we trust the municipalities, we trust the municipal councils of education, we trust the presidents of the board of freguesia. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And it is not, Mr Deputies, a blind trust, but a sustained confidence in the good work that our municipalities do. That is why we also wanted to strengthen resources and resources so that this work is more consolidated, and this is well expressed in this agreement, which has been concluded. [[CH Member Protests Bruno Nunes.]] I would also like to remind you, Mr Alfredo Maia, that, in successive State budgets, we have always been strengthening the funds for school social action, creating a new step, including some areas that had been withdrawn from school social action, such as support for student study visits, and also with a measure that the honourable Member has referred to, and well, that was the provision of school textbooks to all students, every year, of all secondary education, including vocational education and specialized artistic education. With this process of transition to digital manuals, what we already see in schools, and based on the experience of these 12 000 students who are using digital manuals, we also have a qualitative leap here in terms of the resources that are available, because a digital manual is not a PDF file of a paper manual, but a group of activities that are sometimes in other educational materials and are available through digital support. I can tell you that the curriculum matrix is clear. In conjunction with the Association of Professors of History, I had the opportunity to even personally contact some schools where we have identified some issues that you have mentioned. It is important that we have this survey done, because there were some bad matrix appropriations that led to some situations like this, so they will certainly help me identify cases in which we can support schools in the management of the curriculum matrix. Finally, I would like to say that Physical Education is an integral part of the curriculum of 1. the cycle is one of the curricular areas of 1. the cycle and has specific curriculum guidelines. The teachers of the 1st. the cycle is formed in higher education schools, in various curricular areas, to develop this curriculum component. I finish by saying that curriculum enrichment activities are nothing but a great national program of free time. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u329	Mr Alfredo Maia has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u330	Mr President, Minister, from the outset, with regard to the fundamental divergence in the so-called 'decentralisation', I would like to point out one of the fundamental aspects in terms of negative consequences: there is no equal learning conditions throughout the territory when the conditions are unequal, i.e. the conditions in each school depend more on the financial conditions of the municipalities than on the global resources allocated in a coherent manner and with a single direction.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u331	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u332	On the other hand, with regard to school workers, what is happening is that they are victims of different policies for the treatment of workers, which is an example of the incredible use of temporary work enterprises to ensure the allocation of workers in the area of operational assistants. This is completely unacceptable and, therefore, it is only two notes on two very clear consequences and, after all, due to the lack of time I will not be able to invoke others. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u333	To reply, Mr. Minister for Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u334	Mr President, Mr President, in these remaining 17 seconds, I can only say that there are very good examples of what the honourable Member calls ‘equality’. I was told, for example, that an operational assistant of the Sixth Chamber — an unsuspecting chamber for the CFP — who, since there is decentralization of competences, has the right on the day of the free anniversary to celebrate the anniversary. This is a good example of a positive practice in decentralization. Finally, I think that our divergence is that the Portuguese Communist Party continues to confuse equality with equity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u335	For the period reserved for the Left Block, you now have the floor of Mrs Joana Mortágua to ask her questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u336	Mr President, Minister, I will go over the intellectual paternalism with which you answered me recently, in which I do not see it, I reject it, but I will go back to the subject because the Minister asked not only to talk about illegal casualties, but also to attribute to the teachers' casualties a large part — more than 90 %! — the problem of lack of teachers. This reveals, at least, a misunderstanding about the problem of lack of teachers or, at most, an attempt to condition the popular and national understanding of the lack of teachers. The fact is that in resolving the problem, what has been demonstrated is that the Government has refused 2876 applications for mobility for disease. Therefore, in solving the problem, rather than going to its true origin, which are careers, the devaluation of careers, wages, etc. Mr President, it was the immediate measures that led to more problems with the system than those that resolved. Among them, the problem of mobility by disease, but not only. of the new recruitment regime, the only thing announced is a reminder of the ECB's ghost. A ghost that was brought here by Mr. Porfirio Silva in those covers of newspapers that demonstrated the chaos in which schools were in October 2014. It is precisely because of this that in 2016, in a decree signed by Prime Minister Antonio Costa, the government revoked the ECB, saying that it was problematic for schools. What I would like to know is whether Minister João Costa is revising this revocation and whether he continues to withdraw the School Contract Stock Exchange, in fact, so adored by the Liberal Initiative. And for some reason it will be, because it has always been a right-wing mechanism. I also asked you whether you will continue to throw forward the answers to the problems that leave teachers away from public school, which are the issues of remuneration and career development, and whether you will make the correction requested by the European Commission in relation to the wages of contracts and linked. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u337	To reply, Mr. Minister for Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u338	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, data are given and therefore when the reasons for absenteeism are one, they are those and they are not. Don't expect him to say they're different when they're the ones. In fact, we have already put 24 000 teachers during this school year, which indicates that, in fact, we do not yet have - but we can have, as has already been stated by Mr António Cunha, taking into account the evolution of retirements - a structural lack of teachers in general disciplines, which we have had is difficult because of the many requests for replacements that come every week. Let me also say that data is given. In terms of internal mobility, from August to now more than 17 000 hours have been requested and the positive response rate, i.e. the completion and placement rate at this stage, is 97 %. So, we've had the ability to respond, we've had successive requests for new times and we're running weekly, as is current practice of the Ministry of Education. On the so-called phantom and the narrative that Mrs Deputy is trying to create about an alleged inconformity between what was done in 2016 and what is intended to be done about hiring, giving more autonomy to schools for the hiring of teachers, she would like to read a small text, which says: "It is desirable to live together between a universal and centralized system of placement of teaching staff in schools and a decentralized, operational and effective system of which each school can contract on the basis of criteria appropriate to its context. Do not keep on seeking. ” This is in the preamble to the decree of law that revoked the School Contract. Therefore, it was never at issue by the Government of the Socialist Party the desire to articulate centralized contracts with contextualized contracts. What we had, as you said and well, was an inability or difficulty in operating this measure, which led to what—we no longer remember! — in 2014 we had started the school year with more than 5000 hours to put and in the following year this did not happen because what was done was to postpone the beginning of the school year, because it was the year of elections, so there would be no problems in the placement of teachers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u339	Once again, you have the floor of Mrs. Joana Mortagua from BE.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u340	Mr President, Minister, when it is impossible to reply to all the questions, I will only appeal to teachers who have great literacy skills to interpret their words, both on the ECB and on the difference between absenteeism and structural lack of teachers, and now on another topic, to combat sexual abuse of minors. It is a dramatic situation, which everyone is concerned about, with many cases committed: some, many, in an institution, which is the Catholic church; others, many also, within their own homes or by people close to the victims, crimes that have much, far below the reality of concrete cases. One of the ways to combat sexual abuse of minors is sexual education. This is what is written in the Lanzarote Convention, which Portugal has signed, that is what all international studies indicate, i.e., teaching children to identify, distinguishing unwanted sexual contact; teaching them to distinguish consent is essential in the early detection of sexual abuse. We know that there are those who argue that families have the right to deprive children of this protection, they have the right to deprive children of fundamental subjects of education, their protection and their development. We see how André Ventura enters here as a lion on school bathrooms, but goes out much more lamb on cases of sexual abuse in the church.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u341	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u342	We see how the Liberal Initiative, which recognized that sexual education was important in combating sexual abuse of minors, then campaigned to say that children are family, children are not state.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u343	And they're not!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u344	The Public Prosecutor should have made complaints about the State, because the discipline of Citizenship and Development should be optional, because the children are family. Now, what we think is that the protection of children is not optional, sexual education is also essential for the sexual protection of children. [[CH protests.]] The legislation on sexual education provides that students of 1. the cycle can learn materials on the protection of the body, the notion of limits and say 'no' to abusive sexual approaches. I know that André Ventura and the Arrival will say no, they will say that this is an abuse on the teaching of families, even knowing that it is inside the house that many of the sexual abuse happens and that this is a child-protection. What I ask is: what balance does sexual education apply to 1. the cycle and what is necessary in order to protect these children more, with specialized professionals and with autonomy of these contents to be taught in our schools? [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u345	To reply, Mr. Minister for Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u346	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate you on this concern which is, in fact, a subject on which we all have a responsibility to act, to denounce and, above all, to prevent — I repeat, especially to prevent. I repeat, as the honourable Member did, the debate we were having here recently, when we talk about the competence of the school, we are also aware that there are children who live in families in which there is abuse, we know that trauma retraumatizes, that is, those who grow up in a context of violence, tends to become aggressor...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u347	Who is forced to marry at the age of 13 as well!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u348	... and therefore it is necessary to present other models and also to present robust instruments of self-protection, self-care and consciousness. This is what is done in our schools, this is also one of the objectives of the curriculum area of citizenship, articulated with other areas of the curriculum, and that is what is happening in schools. Citizenship is present from the curriculum guidelines for pre-school education up to 12. the year, we have come to produce materials, we have also worked with other specialists, establishing protocols in the field of health, in the area of associations that aim to protect and combat sexual violence, gender violence, discrimination, and this is giving fruit and the fruits we see are the overthrow of some taboos, because until recently the rule was the silence. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u349	You now have the floor, for a question, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u350	Mr President, Minister, in this second round, we would like to ask a question regarding the valorisation of educational professionals. Until 2008, and since the 1990s, it was understood that teachers with a master's degree or doctorate should be enhanced in their career integration, regardless of whether such training had been completed before or after career entry, i.e., the effort to carry out training was rewarded irrespective of the moment this effort arose. However, in 2008 it was determined that this bonus would only be attributed to teachers who had obtained a master's degree or a doctorate after career integration, thus leaving out all those who had obtained this training in the period when they had a term of resolution. In other words, this amendment constitutes discrimination without any rational basis in equal situations, and worse, teachers are told that their efforts to train throughout life and to continually update nothing serve, because it has no recognition on the part of the State, not because it is not useful but because it was taken at the wrong time, and devalues the factor that objectively can and should give us more prepared and qualified teachers. So what we ask you is whether it is in your plans, in the plans of this government, to restore the bonus, which is so important for the valorization of teachers and the improvement of the quality of teaching, that, I remember, are fundamental elements for us to have this responsibility — that, fortunately, it is a shared responsibility between the State, the family and society — to educate children by contributing to a more plural and less monochromatic view, as we have heard here also, so that they can, in fact, have access to a plural and respectable globalization for all human rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u351	To reply, Mr. Minister for Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u352	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, spoke about the rationality for the amendment. The rational is simple to understand: with the Bologna reform, the master has ceased to be an additional level of qualification after the graduates in education, or the graduates who had a branch of education to follow, the master has become the condition of access to career and that is why this change has been introduced.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u353	You now have the floor, for a question, Mr Rui Tavares, of the Free.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u354	Mr President, Minister, in this last question, let us start first by the students and then end up in the teachers. The Minister has already spoken about the importance they give to student assemblies and the whole issue of democracy within the school. The question I wanted to ask you is how much the demands, the diagnoses of students made in these internal forums, in the teaching system, are followed and valued, because it is indeed important for our young people to learn democracy from school. Still about students, an essential measure, even to recover learning, is the reduction of students per class. As we know, with the shortage of teachers, it is difficult to make that reduction. So I wanted to ask you how it is that you review your goals in relation to the reduction of students by class. Finally, about teachers, recently the Liberal Initiative asked you a good question...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u355	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u356	Democratic greetings, with condolences for the omission of the Minister of Finance on this matter, i.e. how to communicate so that, despite all the issues to be resolved in the teaching profession, the vocation for teaching is desirable. To communicate, we need to talk to those who communicate with the creators with the young communicators who already do so on the networks and, therefore, here in this House, we will monitor their action in the field of the teacher profession. This is not a question, it is a suggestion: I think that from time to time it is worth leaving the Ministry of Education to ask the communicators how it is communicated, so that the teacher profession is once again made desirable.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u357	To reply, Mr. Minister for Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u358	Mr President, Mr Rui Tavares, I would like to thank the suggestion. It's good. I wanted to answer the questions you raised. Firstly, as regards the reduction in the number of students per class, we started this reduction and it is also important to understand that, because of our demographic problem, in this same period when we increased the budget for education by 44 %, we lost 100 000 students in the education system, which has already generated, in a large part of the territory, the reduction of classes simply because there are no students, and this leads us to an average number of students by a very small group. We have also been greatly increasing the number of classes that have reduced because they have students with specific educational needs, which induce the reduction of the class. Secondly, on the participation of young people, it is in fact something in which we have posted since the beginning of the drawing of changes in the curriculum area. We have been working on the dynamism of youth assemblies throughout the country and there are now publications in partnership with the ComParte project only with what results from young people's hearing, which has had several impacts. I will only give the example of some measures: the introduction of the possibility of self-training courses, i.e. today, young secondary students can exchange disciplines between courses to respond to individual aspirations, and this comes from a suggestion of young people; some of the subjects and domains of the area of citizenship and the very presence of citizenship in the curriculum result from the request of young people; initiatives such as the creation of regular moments of hearing of young people present in the curriculum legislation stem from suggestions of young people. Yes, we hear them, we integrate the suggestions and legislate on their suggestions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u359	We have thus concluded the debate on sectoral policy with the Minister of Education and his team. We say goodbye to the Government and we refer to the second item on our agenda, to which no time has been allocated for discussion, which is contained in the Management Account of the Assembly of the Republic concerning the year 2021. The third point concerns the assessment, also without time for discussion, of Bill No. 188 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Amends the territorial boundaries between the A-dos-Francos Freguexia and the Freguexia de Vidalis of the Queen's Caldas Council and 232 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Amends the territorial boundaries between the Freguesia de Caranguejeira, Municipality of Leiria, and the Union of the Freguesia de Matas and Cercal, Municipality of Ourem. We now turn to the fourth point, which concerns the vote on the Rules of Procedure. I would ask the services to open the quorum verification register and the ladies and gentlemen. Members to register. [[Pause.]] I wonder if any Member of Parliament or some Member of Parliament has not been able to register. [[Pause.]] Not being the case, I ask the services to publish the result of the verification. We have a quorum, so we shall then proceed to the vote. We begin with the general vote on Bill No. 153 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Regulation of the operating hours of trade and distribution units. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L were rejected.]] We generally vote for Bill No. 345 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Regulations and limits the operating hours of large commercial areas and establishes a transitional system for the reduction of the normal working period. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L were rejected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u360	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u361	Is it to communicate the delivery of a declaration of vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u362	Yes, Mr President, on these two initiatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u363	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The vote is followed by the vote of three requests submitted by the CH, respectively, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without voting for 60 days of Bill No 156 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Strengthens the protection of victims of privacy by means of non-consensual sharing of sexual carousel content; by the NAP, requesting the discharge to the same committee, without voting for 60 days of the Bill No 157 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — envisages the crime of non-consensual disclosure of intimate or sexual content; and by BE, also requesting the discharge to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without voting for 60 days of Bill No 208 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Creation of the crime of unauthorized pornography (fifty-fifth amendment to the Criminal Code and forty-fifth amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure). If no parliamentary group opposes, we shall vote-CL together. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] The cited bills are down to 1. the Commission, without a vote. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 347 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Strengthens the protection of victims of crimes of non-consensual dissemination of intimate content by amending the Criminal Code and Decree-Law No 7/2004 of 7 January 2004 approving electronic commerce in the internal market and processing of personal data. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PS, PS, IL, PCP, BE and L and with abstentions from CH and PAN.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We shall generally vote for Law No 24 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Mental Health Act and amends related legislation. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L, votes against the CH and the abstention from the IL.]] The bill goes down to 9. the Commission. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I insist that there are no talks while the vote takes place. The vote is a very important period in parliamentary life and, therefore, we are either present or not, but if we are present, we are in accordance with our obligations. We now vote in general on Bill No. 335 / XV / 1. a (L) — Creates a mental health plan in educational centers and prisons. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the IL, the CFP, the NAP and the L and abstentions by the CH and the BE.]] We proceed with the general vote of Bill No. 339 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Creates the mental health check, with the aim of ensuring timely access to psychiatry consultations and psychology consultations. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the BE were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH and the IL and abstentions against the PAN and the L.]] We then vote in general on Bill No. 346 / XV / 1. a (BE) — Law on means of mental health. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS and IL and votes in favour of PSD, CH, PCP, BE, PAN and L.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 177 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government put the National Mental Health Plan into action. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] Mrs. Members, we will generally vote on Law No 36 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to transfer to municipalities an additional municipal social fund specific subsidy in 2022. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. We shall proceed to the vote by the Management Account of the Assembly of the Republic for the year 2021. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] The general vote on the draft Law No 188 / XV / 1 shall be followed. a ( PSD ) — Amends the territorial boundaries between the A-dos-Francos Freguexia and the Freguexia de Vidalis of the Queen's Caldas Council. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceed to the general vote on the draft Law No 232 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Amends the territorial boundaries between the Freguesia de Caranguejeira, Municipality of Leiria, and the Union of the Freguesia de Matas and Cercal, Municipality of Ourem. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we now vote on draft resolution No 187 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Recognition and regulation of the tourist information profession. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected, votes against the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the PSD.]] Mrs Emília Cerqueira is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u364	Mr President, it is only to announce that the PSD will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u365	You are registered, Mrs. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 148 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends that the Government extend the programme to return to emigrants from Madeira and the Azores. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL and the NAP and abstentions of the CFP, the BE and the L.]] Mrs. Members, we now vote on draft resolution No 186 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Accounting for the years 2013 to 2016 for career progression to the workers of the General Deposit Box. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]] We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 263 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends that the Government carry out the accounting of the period from 2013 to 2016 for the purposes of career advancement of workers in the General Deposit Box. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of CH, BE and PAN and abstentions from PS, IL, PCP and L.]] We will vote for Resolution Project No 230 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends that the Government take initiatives after the European Parliament has determined that Hungary is no longer a full democracy. [[CH's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u366	It's Venezuela!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u367	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this kind of event is not scheduled in the course of the vote either. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the CH and the PCP, votes in favour of IL, BE, PAN and L and with abstentions from PS and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u368	He's still sending something!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u369	Mrs Paula Santos is asking for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u370	Mr President, it is to announce that we are going to deliver a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u371	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. The vote on draft resolution No 231 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Recommends that the Government transpose Directive 2019 / 882 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States with regard to accessibility requirements for products and services. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, IL, BE, PAN and L and with abstentions from CH and the CFP.]] We move on to the final overall vote of the final text submitted by the Health Committee on Bills Nos 71 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Change specific activities associated with compensation in family health units in order to eliminate gender discrimination in clinical practice and 88 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — eliminates gender discrimination in the compensation criteria associated with the specific activities of doctors. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE, the PAN and the L and with abstentions from the PSD and the CFP.]] We shall vote in a global final vote on the final text submitted by the Health Committee on draft resolution No 138 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a “Regression Health” programme specifically aimed at health professionals. [[The vote was taken by votes to PS, PS, CH, IL, PAN and L and with abstentions from the CFP and BE.]] We also have the final overall vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Labour, Social Security and Inclusion on draft resolution No 164 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government further monitor future contracts. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CH, IL, BE, PAN and L and the abstention from the CFP.]] Finally, the final overall vote of the final text is followed, presented by the Committee on Labour, Social Security and Inclusion, on draft resolution No 218 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — National lifting of the number of daytime vacancies. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We have finished the votes. Mr Bruno Dias asked for the floor to what effect, Mr? Is it to intervene on the votes?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u372	Mr President, it is only to provide an explanation and information. At the time of the quorum verification it was not present at this site. However, I took part in the vote and just wanted to note that.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u373	Regimentalists will deal with this bottleneck. Now I'm going to put the word to Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha for an announcement.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u374	Mr. President and Mr. Members, you have entered the Bureau, and you have been admitted, draft resolution No 269 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 7. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-14.u375	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, our next plenary meeting is on Wednesday, October 19. The agenda... [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it's 23 seconds and 34 cents, but I need them. As I said, the agenda for the next sitting on Wednesday, 19 October, consists of several points. the first point is the preparatory debate of the European Council, with the participation of the Prime Minister. the second item is the debate of the Ombudsman's Annual Report. At the third item on the agenda we have the debate on draft resolutions 85 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Water Loss Reduction Program in Public Supply Networks, 97 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Increase the reuse of treated waste water, 208 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Programme to strengthen the storage capacity of the trees and increase public water reserves, 210 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — artificial load of aquifers to enhance water efficiency and 216 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Encourage green infrastructure and installation of rainwater systems, along with Law Projects No 124 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Amended Decree-Law No 58 / 2005 of 29 December to promote the efficient use of water resources, 206 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Protects the efficient use of drinking water and obliges the use of water from wastewater treatment stations for the water of golf courses, 234 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — National plan for the structural prevention of the effects of drought and its follow-up, 336 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Strengthens the monitoring, control and assessment of the pollution of rivers located in international water regions, amending the Water Law, 337 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Change the legal framework of watershed management plans provided for in the Water Law, ensuring the existence of sustainable ecological flows and the mandatory forecast of measures to mitigate the effects of climate change and drought and 338 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Reduce to 6 % the VAT on services to ensure the water efficiency of dwellings by amending the VAT code and the Resolution Projects No 112 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Recommends that the Government establish the mandatory recycling/reuse systems in new buildings and consider the eligibility of these systems for financial support through the environmental fund, 190 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the public management of the gallery Perimeter de Rega do Mira and measures to safeguard the water and 235 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Recommends to the Government the construction, modernisation and rehabilitation of irrigation systems. the fourth and last item on the agenda is the discussion of draft resolution No 266 / XV / 1. a ( Committee on European Affairs) — Opinion on the Proposal for a Council Directive establishing the system for the exercise of the right to vote and eligibility in elections to the European Parliament of citizens of the Union resident in a Member State of which they do not have nationality ( reformulation) COM ( 2021 ) 732 and the Proposal for a Council Directive laying down the rules for the exercise of the right to vote and eligibility in the elections of citizens of the Union resident in a Member State of which they do not have nationality ( reformulation ) COM ( 2021 ) 733. The sitting is thus closed. Good weekend to all. [[It was 13 hours and 36 minutes.]]
