ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a position to begin our work. The session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 7 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the galleries to the public. As soon as conditions exist, I ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u2	Mr. President, very good morning to all. I will announce that they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President to several legislative initiatives. First of all, I refer to Law Nos 45 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 46 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), which falls to 6. the Commission, and 47 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission. Law No. 364 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 10. the Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission, 365 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 366 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 368 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 369 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 370 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 371 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 372 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 10. the Commission, and 373 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 8. I then refer to Resolution Projects Nos 283 / XV / 1. a ( PS, PSD, CH, IL ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 284 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which falls to 2. the Commission, in connection with 1. a, 286 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 2. the Commission, 287 / XV / 1. a ( PAN), 288 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), 289 / XV / 1. a ( IL), 290 / XV / 1. a ( PS ), 291 / XV / 1. a ( L), 292 / XV / 1. a ( L), 293 / XV / 1. a ( L), 294 / XV / 1. a ( L), 295 / XV / 1. a ( CH), 296 / XV / 1. a ( CH), 297 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 2. the Commission, in connection with 11. a and 12. a Commissions, 298 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 2. the Commission, in connection with 1. a and 12. the Commission, and finally, 299 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 2. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u3	Let us then begin our agenda, which will have three points: discussion of the rules, votes, the time when we will proceed to the quorum verification, and continuation of the debate, in the speciality, of the Bill No 38 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2023. As regards the rules avoked by the Plenary, the first for which there is a request for a word is proposal 1759 - C, submitted by the PS, to add an article 117. o -A— Conclusion of the residence of the Rio Major Higher Sports School. To speak on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Hugo Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the proposal that the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group has advocated on the completion of the Rio Major Sports School is the most fundamental justice and follows the strategy of the Socialist Party to respond to the challenges of the historical lack of student housing. But why make such a concrete proposal? First of all, it is the result of the rigorous work of monitoring the regional themes of the Socialist Party Members. The Higher School of Sport of Rio Major, an integral part of the Polytechnic Institute of Santarém, celebrates next month a 25-year history, a story intrinsically linked to the Socialist Party, which, at the time of the beginning of its activity, was in the governance of the country and the municipality of Rio Major. It was also the Socialist Party's decision to build the current facilities, a historic option that contributed to the growth and development of the municipality and the region. Today, the percentage of students in the community and their importance for employment and economy are clear. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u5	In this school year, the school has more than 1100 students, and according to the institution's data, about 850 students are displaced. Rio Major currently has no university residence, which is important to resolve. The dream of a student residence is old, and the project in question allows the provision of more than 100 beds, responding in particular to the most disadvantaged students, thus avoiding school dropout. It is in this context, and in close proximity to the territories, that the Socialist Party submits this proposal. The State budget for the year 2021 unanimously approved a proposal aimed at the construction of the said residence, but with the increase of construction costs and the planned value does not allow the work to be completed. In view of good public management, the need for response forces the work to be completed, which already has the walls standing, and will be completed next year in order to serve the student community. No one would understand it was different. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has taken this step. The Socialist Party does not renege, it does not resign and wants to solve the historical problem in this way. This proposal is part of the strategy of the National Plan for Higher Education Housing, transferring to the Instituto Politécnico de Santarém a sum of EUR 1, 5 million to complete the work, allocating the resources necessary for the residence to be a reality. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u6	To speak on the same subject, Mrs. Isura Morais, PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u7	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the proposal of the State Budget for 2023, submitted by the Government, were not planning for the completion of the residence of students of the Higher School of Sport. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] In good time, the Socialist Party also tabled a proposal for an amendment of EUR 1 million and EUR 500 000 for the completion of this important infrastructure. A proposal identical to that of the PSD, which was presented earlier! [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from PS Miguel Cabrite.]] We hope that there will be consistency and that they will also vote in favour of the PSD. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u8	To speak on the same subject, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u9	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and Members of the Commission. Members, the CFP, with great pleasure, will vote in favour of these proposals. We want to greet the teachers and students of Rio Major’s Higher Sports School, recalling the work and struggle that the PCP has done for many years, and that has been worth it. It's always worth fighting! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u10	To speak on the same subject, Mr Hugo Costa of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u11	Mr. President, it's just to give two notes. Mrs Isura Morais, first of all, the Budget is only voted on 25 November. Let's see how the Social Democratic Party is going to vote on the Budget with this proposal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u12	Mrs Isura Morais is going to vote in favour of the State budget? Do we have another vote? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u13	You will vote against the resolution of this problem. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is also important to say that the proposal of the Social Democratic Party cannot be voted on, because as soon as this proposal is approved the other one is damaged. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u14	To speak on the same subject, Mr. Secretary of State for Higher Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, at the risk of raising some comment or perplexity to Mrs Joana Mortágua, I will praise another residence outside Lisbon.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u16	Watch out!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u17	It is true that the Government is concerned about the university accommodation in Lisbon and that is why there are EUR 120 million in the National Plan for Higher Education Accommodation for Great Lisbon, as well as that almost a quarter of the beds to be rehabilitated or built are in the Great Lisbon. That is why, this year, the Government has proposed twice the increase in the housing supplement, the highest value being precisely for students displaced in the Lisbon region, because we are aware of the difficulties they face. It is true, too, that we are concerned about the rest of the country, because it is very important that there is a quality higher education network—and it exists. That is why, yesterday, I welcomed the initiative of the University of the Beira Interior ; and I now welcome this initiative, which comes to respond to a very important need of the Instituto Politécnico de Santarém, precisely for a school that has played a very important role in that region. It is therefore very important that we be able to complete this effort. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u18	We now move on to proposal 1407 - C, submitted by the PS, to add an article 121. -A— Choices Program. Mr Eduardo Alves, from the PS, has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u19	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members and Members of Parliament, speaking of children and young people with vulnerabilities is talking about this State budget; it is talking about the growth of family allowance and the guarantee of support for children; it is talking about universal and free access to day care. It is not a question of structural reform, of those which the right seeks and which robs us of rights, but of a transformational reform that gives us rights, which helps the family budget and combats child poverty. [[P.S.'s applause.]] To talk about children and young people with vulnerabilities here is also to talk about the Choices Program and how, through education, work or citizenship, it is contributing decisively, for example, to our numbers at the early school dropout rate, which today are at minimum historical levels; a program with initiatives that reproduce throughout the country, in collaboration with associations and local institutions, and which is evaluated and internationally recognized. But to talk about the Choices Program is also to talk about our vocation to welcome and integrate; it is to talk about the need to overcome and invert our demographic winter; it is to talk about the need for workers to feed our economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u20	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u21	Well, I know there is, in this house, one who suffers from Procusto syndrome. I know that when the country does not fit in its ideological bed, there are those in this house who try, by the force of populism, to shrink and diminish the country so that it fits in their hatreds. [[Protests by the members of the CH Filipe Melo and Pedro Pinto.]] The PS does not hide or devalue problems. The PS presents solutions, and that is why the PS Parliamentary Group proposes to renew and strengthen the Choices Programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u22	They're going to increase below inflation!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u23	To speak on the same subject, you have the floor of the Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to stress on behalf of the Government the importance of the money allocated and this proposal for the Choices Programme. We must have the notion that this is a programme that has been working for 20 years so that children and young people in the most vulnerable neighborhoods can have opportunities in society. It is a programme that combats social exclusion and is, above all, a programme that gives these young people opportunities.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u25	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u26	There are those who think that the world should be a barrier to these vulnerable neighborhoods.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u27	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u28	There are those who look at these vulnerable neighborhoods like neighborhoods of criminals. The government looks at these neighborhoods with the dignity that these people deserve and, above all, with the opportunity that these young people and children deserve in Portuguese society. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH Member's protests Filipe Melo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u29	For an intervention on the same subject, Mr Ventura has now given the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u30	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Members, I think that among the young people in this country and poverty, to join the neighborhoods that some people give for criminals and others give by holy beneficiaries of social security subsidies—that the Portuguese pay—there is a different reality. There is a country with 2, 3 million poor and see the PS, in today's debate, come to praise the Choices Program, or more or less choices, when Portugal was the country that has increased poverty in the last year... [[All right!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u31	They come to talk about young people in this area, when Portugal is the country of the European Union which has increased the poverty rates the most in recent years...! [[Congrats from the CH.]] But it is equally worrying that the PS brings up the issue of young people—only to deceive anyone who wants to be deceived! — when Portugal is proportionally also the country of the European Union which the younger has lost in recent years. And I'm going to give you something: in the last 10 years — I repeat, 10 years! — Portugal has lost 166,000 young people; it has lost some for emigration, some who no longer want to be in the country and some to whom we have never given anything. No, Mrs. Minister, young people are not the theme of PS, they are the shame of the PS government. And let me tell you more: there are certainly good people in these neighborhoods, but there are also many people who live from our taxes, without any supervision, and the PS has never moved a straw to fight this. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS protests and CH counterprotests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u32	We are now considering the proposal of 1107 - C of the Liberal Initiative, an addition to Article 123. o -A — Regulation and Implementation of Family Health Units - Model C. As soon as possible, Mrs. Joana Cordeiro will intervene. Let's wait a bit, breathe deep. [[Pause.]] Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Liberal Initiative brings back the discussion and vote on the proposed amendment on the regulation and implementation of the family health units ( USF ) of model C. To make it clear, this proposal intended that in 2023 the Government should regulate these USFs and start its implementation through pilot projects. Mrs. Members, the objective of the Liberal Initiative is quite simple: to give options, to people seeking health care and to health professionals, through new models of organization, management or autonomy. But, of course, giving options is not important. In fact, solving problems for this Socialist Party is not important,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u34	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u35	...and that is why, systematically, we continue to watch 14 hours of waiting in hospital emergencies, as we now have at Santa Maria Hospital.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u36	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u37	I remember Mr. Prime Minister saying that on Monday all the problems would be solved. Yes, Mondays are still going on and problems are not solved! [[Applause from the IL.]] We are once again seeing the PS being PS, the so-called "compressor roll" that is uprooting everything and that crumbles with ideas that could bring real improvements in access to health. But the unusual thing is that, this time, the compressor roll of the PS is so out of control that it not only blindly rattles with proposals from other parties, as it rumbles with proposals with which the Health Minister himself said it did not disagree. Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party, at least, wake up and associate themselves with the government they support! [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u38	To speak on the same subject, Mr. Secretary of State of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, reinforcing what we have been discussing on this issue, the Ministry of Health is committed to ensuring its government programme, in particular by increasing population coverage by family health units. That is why we will continue to create family health units of models A and B, which we are investing in the specialization and training of new doctors and that we will continue to find local, transitional and timely solutions dedicated to solving concrete problems that still exist in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u40	And that's what?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u41	This is what we will continue to do, and this is the way from which we will not deviate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u42	Ah, you didn't tell the whole story, but we already got it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u43	We are now considering proposal 1210 - C of the PSD to add an article 123. o -A— Increased coverage of family doctors. To speak, you have the floor of Mrs Fatima Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u44	Mr President, I welcome you, as well as the honourable Members. Members of the Government and of the Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. In September 2016, Mr. Prime Minister promised that in 2017 all Portuguese would have a family doctor. He didn't do it! Six years passed and, in October this year, we had 1 million Portuguese and 342,000 without a family doctor, plus 300 000 people than when the PS arrived at the government in 2015. [[PSD applause.]] We also have over 4 million Portuguese people with health insurance or health subsystems, which means that middle class people are overburdened with taxes and, above all, they have to pay private health insurance. That is, we have a health for the poor, a health for the remedies and a health for the rich. My gentlemen, because we are concerned about the lack of family doctors and the suffering of people, the PSD has put forward a proposal that ultimately aims to ensure that all Portuguese have a family doctor. How? For complex problems, simple solutions: let's join us all, let's work with the public sector, let's work with the non-profit social sector,... [[That's it!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u45	... let's work with the lucrative private sector—because in the interior lands there is no non-profit social sector—,... [[PSD applause.]] ... and we will also regulate the family health units of model C, as another tool to attract health professionals to the deprived areas. My friends, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are concerned about the following: you are talking about saving the National Health Service ( SNS ), but you show that you are not hypocritical and that you really think about people. Think about the people who were still 14 hours in the emergency service yesterday, waiting; many of them, if they had a family doctor, would not have had to go to the emergency service. [[PSD applause.]] Think of chronic patients. Stop thinking about ideology first and put people first. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u46	To speak on the same subject, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are two ways of looking at the weaknesses that the SNS presents. The first is to make more public investment, ensuring quality health for all Portuguese. The second is to look at these weaknesses and see more business opportunities for the private, and therefore to propose more privatization of the National Health Service. The proposals that the right, PSD and Liberal Initiative bring to this debate go the second way, for the idea that, when there is a difficulty, the secret is to further weaken the SNS and privatize parts of it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u48	What about the sick? Nobody talks about them!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u49	But, curiously, that is exactly what the Socialist Party is also doing in the government, and that is why in 2022, record beatings in the use of privates for complementary means of diagnosis and therapy. That is why 2022 was the year in which the most users spent, from their pocket, in private, due to lack of response from the National Health Service. That is why, too, in the State budget to 2023, while proposing an increase in the very low wage mass, further weakening the attractiveness of careers in the health sector, because it proposes an increase of 2, 9 % for inflation above 7%, the Socialist Party's Government proposes an increase in the use of private resources for complementary diagnostic and therapeutic means. More business, more business! That was the right proposition we already knew — more business for the private at the expense of the fragility of the SNS — but, with so much love that they say to the SNS, the Socialist Party and the Government bring the same proposals on the right is a shame that we cannot let go unpunished. When Mr. Secretary of State comes to tell the Liberal Initiative « we do not want your model for the USF type C», which is that of the privatization of primary health care, « because we will do the same, but on the other hand», the Socialist Party's programme to weaken the SNS remains here clearly and unequivocally, and that these love fairies are nothing more than present poisoned by the Portuguese. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u50	On the same subject, Mr João Dias has the floor of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, these two proposals which the Liberal Initiative and the PSD bring us to the creation of the family health units of model C are clearly the « cat hidden with the tail outside »,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u52	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u53	... in this broader strategy, from now on, with the private to primary health care, privatizing health centers and this fundamental response.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u54	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u55	This strategy for privatization of health care results only from the lack of investment by successive governments — the PSD, the CDS, the PS, and now also the absolute majority of the PS, which opens the door to them, Mr Secretary of State, when he says it is punctual.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u56	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u57	How many budgets have you approved?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u58	But if you open this door you will put the « fox in the henhouse», destroying primary health care, so essential and fundamental that they are! [[PCP applause.]] [[IL protests.]] Neither model C respond in any way because the most deprived and isolated populations are not such the market that business needs. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u59	Leave the chicken there! It's over, you guys fucked him up!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u60	For an intervention on the same subject, Mr Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask if you know who made this statement: "90% of Portuguese will have a family doctor by the end of the year. Do not keep on seeking. ” We were in 2018 and who made this statement today is among us. I do not say "among us" as a human being — we hope that it will remain for a long time — but as the former Minister of Health, sitting back there in the socialist bench. She said in 2018 that 94% of Portuguese would have a family doctor by the end of the year, but passed the years 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u62	The 2020 pandemic, the 2021 pandemic, the 2022 pandemic...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u63	... 2022 will end and there are 1 million and some Portuguese without a family doctor. I think it's embarrassing to be sitting there with the former Minister of Health while we're talking about this topic! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Moreover, when listening to the Left Block and the PCP, very indignant with the Socialist Party, say that it has failed to invest in the SNS, that it has failed to work in the SNS, I ask: O my gentlemen, who has approved six budgets of the Socialist Party? [[Congrats from the CH.]] Who has approved six budgets of management, with health always coming down and losing quality? It wasn't us! [[PCP and BE protests.]] My dear ones, you can say whatever you want, but you gave six years of Budgets to the PS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u64	False!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u65	... in which the waiting times for consultations, examinations and diagnoses have only increased, every year, and now they come to throw blame on the right! It would be better to assume your own responsibility in the chaos of health. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u66	One thing is right: this model didn't work. This year, a study conducted in Portugal shows that three out of four Portuguese — three out of four! — trust in the private health sector and only half trust in the public sector. Congratulations to the left and to the extreme left for what they have achieved in Portugal! [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PCP protests and CH counter-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u67	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for an intervention on this subject.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u68	Mr. President, good morning to all and to all, Mr. Members of the Government, Minister, on the other day, someone brought the debate the example of the council of Azambuja and its lack of doctors—is a council I know well, because it is in him that my family origins are. There is a doctor in the capital of the municipality and, last September, there has been no doctor in the north of the municipality, therefore in the most rural area of the municipality of Azambuja. The question is how is it that, in an area that is not of the deep interior of the country, which has a suburban line that binds it to the capital every day and where there are good conditions for the installation of a family health unit, we have, first of all, managed to create type A family health units and have the type A units that already exist in type B units. This deserves an investment plan by the central State, which has to be placed on the table and brought to this House. What certainly does not deserve is that we are told that councils like ours are used as an entry gate for the privatization of family health units, such as an example or prototype for the dissemination through the territory of family health units of type C. [[Protests by IL MP Joana Lambero.]] As long as we do not do all that is within our reach for the advancement and dissemination of the National Health Service to the populations — which they deserve and which, in many cases, have had until recently — we must not, we cannot and do not want, on this side of the Assembly, certainly, to advance this privatization to the posts, to the pieces, to the health care of proximity. We can and should do better. [[CH Member's protests Filipe Melo.]] We can and should encourage doctors, nurses, auxiliary technicians, all health professionals to organize themselves. From this point of view, family health units are a pioneering experience and still have a long way to go. We can create an incentive system that will make people want to go further, passing type A units to type B units, but what we should not do, certainly, is privatize the pieces, through the back door, the family health units.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u69	People organize themselves!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u70	To speak on this topic, Mr. Secretary of State of Health, Ricardo Mestre has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to give you two notes. First, I've heard of two ways here, but I really think there's another way, which is to strengthen the National Health Service, and that's the way we're doing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u72	I had to try, one day!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u73	Because, on the one hand, the arrival of the pope with the privatization of health is announced and on the other hand, the resolution of all health problems with his privatization is announced, as if magic were concerned. We really think there is another way — the way we are going — that is to invest in the USF model A,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by CH Member Pedro dos Santos Frazão and PCP Member João Dias.]] ... to invest in model B USF and to meet the objective of the Government Programme, which is to ensure that we have 80 % of the population covered by model A USF or model B USF. We now have 65% coverage, so we are on this path and that is the path we are going to take. I also want to say that I have heard here about records, that I also associate with the SNS, as this beats records every year and continues, in this year of 2022, to beat the record of activity, of response, of proximity to people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, the most needs of our population are the SNS responding with more activity. That is what we will continue to do, within the plan we have and within the path we are doing. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u74	On the same subject, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block once again has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u75	Mr President, the Secretary of State has come to tell us that the PS has rediscovered the third route. It did so a few years ago, when it created, in the role, the possibility of the USF model C, which concerns the privatization of primary health care in Portugal. I'm glad they stayed on paper and never got out of paper, but this third-way rediscovery has come to tell us that it has now come to implement this privatization of primary health care, and that is not acceptable!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u76	Be true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u77	When we see the SNS beating private payment records, we're destroying their future, we're destroying what people need, which is quality in health care. Mr. Secretary of State, from this point of view, is the old dream on the right. That's why they can't say different! It was not they who invented type C USFs, it was the Socialist Party, but what they now realize is that the door is open for them to be implemented. Why? Because that is the will of the government, which knocks on the chest to defend the SNS, but then, when the time of truth comes, it is the first to open the doors to their privatization. Mr. André Ventura, I finish with a note. I have a difficulty when hearing about health, because I can't forget that such important groups in the health sector as Group Mello, the Champalimaud Group, which have an interest in the privatization of the SNS, are also large contributors to the Arrival. [[CH protests.]] That's why, when I hear you talking about privatization, I know you're protecting some pockets. But it's the pockets of these groups, it's not people's! [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u78	Mrs. Members, let us now turn to the proposal for an addendum to Article 132. the -A - Working Group for the construction of the third crossing of the Tejo ( TTT ). To speak, Mr Bruno Nunes of the Republic of Norway has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u79	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, in 1994 we had a demonstration on the Tex bridge that marked our history. In 1995 — 27 years ago — the Minister for Parliamentary Affairs was elected in this House. For 27 years it has also been an accomplice to the consecutive promises of the socialist governments and the Socialist Party, which, on top of the elections, always makes the promise that it will build the third bridge on the Roof. Mrs Minister, after all the promises you made during the electoral period, I ask you, very sincerely, how does it feel to see the Socialist Party chumbar the proposal of the Arrival for mere ideology? By the way, ideology, I repeat! [[Protests by PS MP Miguel Matos.]] How does the Minister feel about seeing, daily, the hours and hours that people need to pass the bridge over the Roof, paying to enter Lisbon the tolls that you don't want to exempt throughout the country? Because of ideological blindness, they continue to suck this proposal just because the proposal is from the Arrival. Before you have 501 plummeted proposals than to enter into negotiations with you! Finally, I want to tell you that in the last few days, whenever I see the images of Cristiano Ronaldo and Messi playing the Socialist Party. You, really, have played chess on the back of the Portuguese,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u80	It is not « you», it is Mr. Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u81	...but the people, one day, get up and the pawns will all jump out of here! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u82	Mr President, let us assume that the reference to pawns did not mean a reference to your colleagues and we will move forward. We turn to the proposal for an addendum to Article 134. the -A — Maximum value for updating the tolls on the granted bridges and motorways, on which Mr Bruno Dias will speak on behalf of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last few days, many have begun to understand better what comes here as to the values of the tolls from 1 January. If nothing is done, what's next will be gross increases that can exceed 10 %. In the case of bridges on the Roof, tolls can increase more than 20 cents per pass on light cars, and may exceed 2 € in heavy transport. It was because of the tolls that the great struggle took place in 1994! All of this is particularly shocking when it is noted that in the last eight years, these PPPs (public-private partnerships) have absorbed 9, 1 billion euros of public money, in addition to the many more billion euros that have been paid by users, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, by the populations that use these routes. If a 10 % increase in tolls is completely unacceptable, it would not be less prolonged by these ruinous PPPs for longer in exchange for a smaller increase this year! The PCP proposal is a maximum ceiling to stop updating of the toll values corresponding to the value of 2022, as well as the rescue of these PPPs, putting an end to the bleeding of public resources they have represented. Mrs. PS members do not insist on sacrificing populations and businesses on behalf of PPPs and their consortia. On the third crossing of the Tile, which the PCP proposed in this Budget, what it is necessary to move forward with the project of this and many other public investments, is no longer of working groups to « throw sand for the eyes» of people. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u84	On the same subject, on behalf of the Left Block, Mrs. Joana Mortagua will intervene.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u85	Mr President, not long ago, Antonio Costa promised, or said, that he would refuse the increase of 10 % on the Lusoponte tolls, on the 25th April bridge and on the Vasco da Gama. We want to know what is the consequence of this intervention by the Prime Minister. The tolls on the river Tejo are considerable and representative of what the tolls mean to the population of this country: a barrier to territorial cohesion, an obstacle to development and a factor of inequality — social inequality and territorial inequality. In addition, they are a spoil to the population of this country. See, and let us return to the example of Lusoponte in which the taxpayers, besides paying to pass the bridge because they have no other alternative — because public transport is not an alternative either! — they also pay, renegotiation after renegotiation, all the pieces of lion that are left on the private side, in the PPPs. In the case of Lusoponte, a PPP commission of inquiry said that renegotiation contracts already cost taxpayers more than EUR 850 million. Well, in addition to these EUR 850 million, now taxpayers and users will have to pay more than 10 % above the toll weight. We are talking about workers, companies that need to move to work, to make this country's economy grow. It is these production costs, these life costs that the government should think about how to limit, especially when they mean millionaire profits for PPPs. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u86	To speak on the same subject, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva, of the Liberal Initiative, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the government, the political history and management of the public thing in Portugal brought us two realities of public-private partnerships: in health and on roads. The roads — I think it is consensual — are a bad issue, because they were harmful to public history because of the way they were negotiated and implemented by the Socialist Party, but it is ironic that they continue to function; those that worked, which benefited not only the public history, but also the people, who were the health partners, the socialist government has destroyed them! It is the irony with which the Portuguese have to live, the fruit of socialist management when he was in bed with management. That's what he did, harming the Portuguese! Let us turn to the proposal which the CFP is advocating today and which brings us here. Since the Liberal Initiative came to Parliament and since it presented proposals, the question always comes with great normality: "How much does your proposals cost? Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u88	They cost 3,000 million!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u89	We live very well with that, with the question about how much it costs our proposals. So, since they present this proposal not only because of the tolls, but because they want to save the PPPs, and why is it necessary to find a solution, I ask the PCP : how much will it cost to rescue these PPPs? [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u90	We refer to the proposal for an addendum to Article 136. the -A— Special housing protection regime itself in the face of increased housing credit charges of the PCP, and has the floor to Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PCP has advocated the proposal that creates a special housing protection regime for households with credit for housing. Once again, the PS and the right parties prevented their approval. There is now an opportunity to amend the hand and adopt solutions, with the approval of our proposal, to prevent families from entering into non-compliance and to safeguard that no family is left without their home due to the accelerated increase in Euribor rates, which, everything indicates, will continue to rise, at a time when wages and pensions lose the ability to buy every day. Many families account for their lives and do not know how they will cope with increases in housing costs while everything increases, food, electricity, gas. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the question is whether there is political will of the Socialist Party and of the parties on the right to face the interests of the bank and to protect families, ensuring that none remains without their home, or whether they maintain subservience to the interests of the bank, whose profits have reached obscene values. Only in the first nine months of the year, the main banks raised nearly EUR 2 billion of profit,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u92	There he is! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u93	... around EUR 7 million per day. [[CH Member's protests Filipe Melo.]] For the PCP, it is very clear: our commitment is to the protection of the housing of families. Who's with us?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u94	That's blind! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u95	On the same subject, I now give the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the government, the advocacy that the CFP gives us the opportunity to talk about a problem that is quite relevant not only to families, which are looking at their arms with inflation, but also to younger ones. in this debate, and also in the votes that we will have between today and tomorrow, it is essential that we be able to vote proposals such as those presented by the NAP, either with a view to deducting interest in housing credit, repossessing an injustice that came by the troika in 2011 and that has not yet been corrected, as well as the possibility of returning to all families part of this refund, within IRS (tax on the income of natural persons). Moreover, we have to give young people the dream of having their own home. It makes no sense to continue discussing only what is, in fact, relevant — and we do not withdraw this issue — which is the public housing stock, because from the point of view of the loan, we also have to talk about the right to the subsidised regime, which no longer exists. Therefore, in the vision of the NAP, these two options have to be on the table so that, either by means of the lease or through the home itself, young people do not have to postpone the future of their autonomy or the dream of their home. On the other hand, I refer to what, from our point of view, is a measure of elementary justice: to pass the exemption of the IMI (municipal property tax) from three to five years. This is of the greatest relevance, because we know that the fiscal and tax asphyxiation that young people and families have upon themselves has contributed to the increase in monthly revenue. In addition, as regards the suspension of the possibility of housing penhora, taking into account this context, we propose an extraordinary measure for the year 2023. We know that the escalation of interest, coupled with the inflation rate and all expenditure, will in fact aggravate the economic situation of families, and it is essential to ensure that housing itself is impermissible under such circumstances. We know that in the case of loans to housing only the bank can effectively do so, but it does not seem fair, in a context like this to which we are watching, that we leave only the renegotiation on the bank's side and that it is not guaranteed that, in these circumstances, no one is cleared of his own house because of this economic context that the country and the world are going through. But it cannot be said that there is no money for all these measures. Money exists, but it's being very badly channeled. Now we hear here remembering—and well! — that road PPPs will cost the country more than three times what it should cost, i.e. not cost EUR 5 billion, but EUR 15 billion. When we see that money is not going to the families or to the Portuguese business fabric, but always to those who are more pollutant and those who profit most, and that is not social justice, with respect to the ISP (the oil and energy product tax ).
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u97	To speak on the same subject, Mr Rui Tavares, of the Free, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u98	Mr President, the Free will has voted in favour of this proposal from the CFP and today it will again vote in favour of this proposal. The Free believes that we must use all possible instruments to protect people from escalation at interest rate. We have put forward a proposal here in Parliament before the budget process — a month and a short time ago — which basically obliges the bank to have a fixed rate offer and not to create obstacles or penalties for all customers who are at the variable rate and are intended to protect at the fixed rate. We know that the rate will still increase by the end of the year and therefore it is still time for people to be accommodated at the fixed rate in a country which, in relation to other countries in Europe, has a much higher proportion of loans, mortgages, with the variable rate. This proposal for the Book had a positive vote by this House, a somewhat singular vote, is true because all the seats on the right have abstained, with the exception of the only Member of the NAP and the left benches and was therefore approved with the votes of the Left Block, the PCP, the Free Paper and the NAP. in this sense, it is very important for the proposal to pass the letter of law and for the Government to tell us, soon, also in the measures it announced, part of which it resumed in this proposal, that decisions will be made so that the bank, in its universal service, has to have the fixed rate offer. What we're looking at is that when the fixed rate is in favour of customers, banks leave the fixed rate offer, they stop having that offer. Before concluding, I would like to mention the problem that Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has just brought to us. It is a very big problem that we have to face in the coming days. In fact, a generational and social fracture is being created in access to home in Portugal. I understand many of those who say that there was an excess of credit dependence in recent decades on access to their home, but we do not forget that, despite the excesses, it was this access to credit in our country that allowed people — middle, middle-low and even low classes — not only their home, but also the reserve of value that a house means. at a certain moment in the life of a growing family, there is the possibility that, already having home, you can sell it and buy another one, not being excluded from the home market, as is the case with the young people today and with the middle and low class, when they come to the bank and tell them that they do not have access to credit. The Free House has a proposal, which is the proposal for home aid, which consists in setting up a fund to enable people, with the State, to benefit from participation for entry, leaving the State with a part of the house and thus also valuing that fund.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u99	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u100	This, because when the house is sold or when, five years later, that entrance is returned to the state, however, the house has valued and the background has grown.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u101	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u102	This is one of the measures we can use to prevent this fracture from growing in Portugal. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u103	Mrs Paula Santos also wants to speak on this subject. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u104	Thank you very much, Mr President, and I'm sorry I didn't sign up in time. To conclude these questions about housing, I believe that, when the question of defending the housing of families is raised, in contrast to the interests of the bank, it is clear what interests the parties on the right, in particular, are defending here in the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u105	As always!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u106	It's the taxpayer's interest!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u107	And it's not the interests of families or housing. I think this will clarify the position of these parties. The proposal presented by the PCP protects the interests of families, allows no family to lose their home in the difficult situation in which we find ourselves today, in which wages increasingly lose purchasing power...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u108	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u109	...and the Euribor rates do not stop increasing. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u110	Mr Guimarães Pinto also asked for the floor to speak on this subject. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u111	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs. Members, I confess that I have to congratulate the CFP on the creativity of this proposal, because it is an excellent way to create a public housing park, "through the horse gate". [[PCP protests.]] The Secretary of State for Housing, who aims to create a large public housing park, must congratulate the PCP and take advantage of this, because this is the fastest way to do it. Take a good look at the proposal of the CFP. The PCP proposes that anyone can transfer their credit with advantages to the General Deposit Box ( CGD ). If you cannot or do not want to pay the loan, you can hand over the house — your gift in full — by extinguishing your debt.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u112	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u113	Then you can rent the house by 2 % of the remaining amount of the loan. [[PCP protests.]] In other words, what would happen is that the public bank would become the country's largest landlord, even greater than the CFP. [[Laughs and applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u114	They weren't on the street, you know? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u115	From now on we would have the General Deposit Box as the country's largest landlord and the public housing park would grow to 40% or 50% of the country. I know that they would not be able to assume this, they would not be able to assume that what this proposal advocates is the nationalization of housing in Portugal. [[PCP and BE protests.]] That's what you're defending! But be courageous and do not defend this « by the horse door», they assume! [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u116	We've arrived in Holland!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u117	On the same subject, I now give the floor to the Secretary of State for Housing, Marina Gonçalves.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the subject we are discussing here is a subject that we have already had outside the discussion of the State budget, in particular on concrete measures to protect own and permanent housing. I would like to tell you that it is important not to use this debate to play with a topic that is indeed serious and that should unite us all, which is to ensure that no one is deprived of housing. Regardless of the solutions, from what was the position we took in this debate, and which we continue to take, and above all from the path we set out to ensure that no one is deprived of their housing, in the context of credit for housing, what is at stake here is the common objective of ensuring that no one is deprived of their housing. That is why, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, instead of being discussing and neglecting an important instrument for promoting the public housing park, which is an important answer for us not to be here, as today, so concerned about ensuring that families, and well, have effective access to housing, a decent and adequate housing, and that they are not deprived of their housing, the result of contexts that do not arise from the government or depend on us, whether we can see what the instruments we have and do not enjoy such an important debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u119	But whether or not it agrees with the PCP proposal? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u120	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as credit for housing is concerned, we agree that the path is the one which has been defined and approved by the Government and which, in time, has been discussed here. We believe that, in the current context, this is the way to safeguard that no one is deprived of housing, and it is on this basis that we will work. The objective is common and is that guarantee we can give. With regard to the objective of strengthening the public housing park, it also remains a great guarantee and a great objective of the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u121	Mr. Secretary of State, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u122	As for housing credit, we will evaluate what is currently under way to ensure that families are not effectively deprived of housing. If this is not a guarantee mechanism, then we can discuss others,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u123	It's the PCP proposal! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u124	... but at the moment, the government has already adopted measures and these are what we are going to implement to ensure the right to housing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u125	To intervene on the proposal submitted by the Czech Republic to add to the proposal for a law of Article 138. o -A — Support for biological production in low-density territories, Mr Pedro Frazão, of the Arrival has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, this rule that we advocate, on support for biological production in low-density territories, will be one more of those amending rules that no one will notice is plunged by the PS bench. The PS cannot say in the government that it defends the rural world, but then vote against the measures supporting the rural world.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u127	It's true, it's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u128	That's enough, zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u129	Again, in this Chamber, the Arrival is the only party that brings rural-related lawyers, who defends the rural world, who defends farmers and fishermen. [[Congrats from the CH.]] from the Socialist Party, in the 16 ministries that exist, the Ministry of Agriculture is the third with fewer words in this State Budget, and this is a perplexity for the rural world. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] The Council of Ministers has approved, at the same time last week, the transfer of expertise from DRAPs, regional agricultural and fisheries management to the coordination and regional development committees (CDRs), with a total opposition from the sector. The CAP ( Confederation of Farmers of Portugal ), the CONFAGRI ( National Confederation of Agricultural Cooperatives of Portugal ) and the CNA ( National Confederation of Agriculture) have already manifested themselves absolutely against...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u130	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u131	...and we will also oppose this measure here. So we have already submitted a request to this House, the Minister of Agriculture and these three representatives of the sector,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u132	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u133	...to know what's going on and why the government wants to extinguish the DRAPs. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u134	To intervene on the proposal, of the PSD, to add an article 138. o -A — Programme to reduce water losses in supply networks, now Mr Bruno Coimbra has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in a year of extreme drought, the government has been waiting for 10 months for it to rain. The PSD presented numerous proposals... [[PS laughter and protests.]] Calm down, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. Only in the last month, the PSD presented five initiatives and the Socialist Party gave evidence and approved several. In the meantime, the PSD has transformed these initiatives into proposals for amendments to the Budget and — no matter what! — the PS yesterday plunged everything. They never intended to do anything strictly! [[PSD applause.]] Before, they were plummeting, because we had different ideas, but now they're plummeting, even without any ideas. You're not ashamed of anything! They're down to what they've approved for just 3 weeks! It's not just water losses anymore, it's also memory loss, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. The country wastes 30 % of its water on supply networks, corresponding to 180 million m3 of water per year. The PSD proposes a program to reduce these losses and, if the PS chumbar, there is nothing in this Budget that can solve this problem. Water is lost, there is no chance. With the PS, the country is always losing. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u136	To intervene on a proposal submitted by the PSD, also to add an article 138. o -A, Mr. João Moura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u137	Mr President, after several days of discussion of the State budget, there is one issue which has already been understood: the Socialist majority's compressor roll believes that the content of the proposals does not matter, nor does it matter which bank comes, the only thing that matters is that the Socialist Party has already identified in this House that the only two Members of two political forces who import are the Free and the PAN Members, who are the ones who will try to "fish the line" to approve and join the 120 Members of the Socialist Party. [[PS protests.]] Basically, this is a bad state budget, but all parties, without exception, have tried to do their best with proposed amendments. What, then, does the Socialist Party bench do? Let me say that you have put yourself in a load of work, which has to do with the following: the compressor roll that the government is applying in this State budget will apply to the PS bench, because never as now will the "given word be unhonored". It is that what they defend in the debates is contrary to what they defend every day. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u138	To speak on the same subject, you have the floor of Mrs Inês Sousa Real of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u139	Mr President, for the time being, I thought that we were going to debate the regadio and the inconsistencies of the PSD in bringing on the one hand the concerns with the drought and, on the other, with the regadio. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, Mr Moura, let me tell you that « line fishing » on the side of the NAP is not only very little animalistic as I do not believe in me in mermaids and, therefore, certainly, the PS does not come here to fish anything. [[CH's laughs.]] You must be aware that of both: either the PSD has the consistency of wanting to defend sustainable agriculture and a regadion subject to strategic environmental impact assessment or, then, come here to defend the regadion to benefit intensive and superintensive agriculture, which is one of the main factors that interferes with drought, it is clear that it is to be challenging our future and the future of the next generations. in this respect, the NAP cannot follow this vision of the PSD. As far as water losses are concerned, we fully support your concerns, but they must also extend to this activity. It is that if there are no measures that support the irrigation with the need for strategic environmental assessment, but also a vision for agriculture of precision, innovation and that enables us not only to preserve our soils, but also to ensure that there is a genuine appreciation of the rural world — and not of the rural world that many here so often claim — that what we are going to have is in fact a nightmare about the rights of future generations and of our own country, in terms of autonomy and food sovereignty. Mr President, the NAP presented an initiative which the PSD rejected, precisely for strategic environmental assessment. As for the other proposals, in these first two days, with only one Member, the NAP has been able to make many advances here that directly relate to the country's real needs and concerns. [[PSD and CH protests.]] With your bench, we'll see, at the end of the week, what we got. [[PSD and CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u140	I now give the floor to Mr Eurico Brillante Dias of the PS. I ask silence to all but you, of course.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this moment of discussion of yesterday's votes by the Committee on Budget and Finance is very illustrative. The PPD / PSD has risen to talk about the compressor roll. Mr President, we are talking about the party that announced the vote against before we know the document. If there is a compressor roll in this budget debate, it is that of the PPD / PSD bench, which, without reading, announced the vote against. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Then we brought very interesting and relevant issues. The first is that of health, which Mr. Secretary of State had the opportunity to clarify. This party is proud! in this Budget, we have the largest ever budget of the National Health Service : more doctors than in 2015, more nurses than in 2015, after fighting a single pandemic in the 21st century. [[PSD and BE protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are very comfortable with our health policy and we know that the alternative is zero, they are cuts. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u142	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u143	In conclusion, let us talk about the tolls, which is a very illustrative case.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u144	From the PS lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u145	There's a party that, as far as this is concerned, can't talk. It is the party of the tolls, the party that forced the interior and the Algarve, Mr. Deputies, to have tolls, the party that is the party of the tolls. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u146	In the Algarve, they said they were done!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u147	We continue to work to reduce the tolls, but the party of the tolls is sitting on our right in this Hemicycle. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u148	So the PS and the government that end the tolls!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u149	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u150	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u151	Mr President, I would like to take the floor for an explanation to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u152	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u153	Mr President, I just want to recall the chronology: the Budget was delivered on 10 October and the PSD spoke about its sense of vote on 12 October. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u154	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u155	Mr President, do you also wish to speak to the Bureau about the conduct of the work?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u156	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u157	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u158	Mr President, I would like to convey to the Members of this House the statements made by the President of the PPD / PSD, who I believe are binding this party, even before 10 October, announcing the vote against. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u159	Distribute, I want to see!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u160	Let us then begin the second item on our agenda, which is the vote on the rules of law. I request the services to initiate the quorum verification procedure. [[Pause.]] I wonder if any Member of Parliament or some Member of Parliament has not been able to register. [[Pause.]] They signalled to the Bureau that the Members were not able to register. Members Joana Mortágua, BE, Diogo Pacheco de Amorim, CH, Carla Castro, IL, and Sérgio Sousa Pinto, PS. [[Pause.]] In the meantime, Mr Pacheco de Amorim pointed out to the Bureau that he had already registered. I ask a second time, and I only don't ask a third because I'm not the cock of the Gospel. [[Laughing.]] All right, the process is completed, so I ask the services to advertise the result of the quorum verification. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a quorum and we shall proceed to the vote. We begin with the vote on proposal 1759 - C of the PS, in addition to the proposal for a law of Article 117. o -A— Conclusion of the residence of the Rio Major Higher Sports School. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, CH, PCP, BE, PAN and L and the abstention from IL.]] The vote is followed by the vote on the proposal 1407 - C, of the PS, for the addition of Article 121. o -A— SCHOOLS Programme. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and with abstentions from the CH and the IL.]] We are now voting on proposal 1107 - C from the IL to add Article 123. -A — Regulation and implementation of Family Health Units - Model C. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L and votes against the PSD, the CH and the IL.]] We proceed with the vote on proposal 1210 - C of the PSD, adding Article 123. o -A— Increased coverage of family doctors. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the PS, the CH and the IL and the abstention from the NAP.]] The vote is followed by the vote on proposal 438 - C, of the CH, of the addition of Article 132. o -A— Working group for the construction of the third crossing of the Tejo. [[When put to the vote, votes against the PS, IL, the CFP, the BE and the L were rejected, votes against the CH and abstentions against the PSD and the NAP.]] The vote is followed by the vote on proposal 336 - C of the CFP, an addition to Article 134. o -A — Maximum value for updating tolls on bridges and motorways granted.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u161	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u162	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u163	Mr President, we ask that Article 134(2) and (3) be voted on separately on this proposal. o -A, which is intended to adapt.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u164	Let us then vote on Article 134 ( 1 ). o -A, as referred to in proposal 336 - C of the CFP. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected in favour of the CFP, BE, NAP and L and abstentions from the PSD and CH.]] We now vote on paragraphs 2 and 3 of the same article. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE, NAP and L and the abstention from the CH.]] We continue with the vote on proposal 1385 - C of the CFP, adding a Article 136. o -A— Special housing protection regime itself in the face of increased housing credit charges. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L.]] We are now voting on proposal 285 - C of the CH, adding Article 138. o -A — Support for biological production in low-density territories. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and IL, votes in favour of the CH, the BE and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD, the CFP and the L.]] The vote is followed by the vote on proposal 843 - C of the PSD, which is also an addition to Article 138. o -A — Programme to reduce water losses in supply networks. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE and the NAP and abstentions of the CFP and the L.]] Finally, we voted on proposal 954 - C, from the PSD, to add Article 138. o -A — Financing of the National Plan of Regadios 20 - 30. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, BE, PAN and L and votes against the PS, CH, IL and PCP were rejected.]] Mrs. Members, so we end the second item on the agenda and move on to the third item, which is the continuation of the discussion, in the specialty, of the Bill No 38 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — State budget for 2023, from Article 150. We enter the chapter, always exciting, of tax provisions. The first intervention on Article 150. — Strengthening the presence of Portuguese officials in European institutions and international organisations is the responsibility of Mr Rui Tavares of the Free.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u165	Mr President, I would like to exclude this speech in the interest of saving my time for closure.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u166	Mr. Deputies, you are dismissed and registered. Mr. Diogo Pacheco de Amorim, from arrive, is then registered. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u167	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I leave some notes on the Return Programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u168	Sir, I apologize for interrupting. We will expect the House to calm down, since it is easier for the House to calm down than the Table to reassure the House. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u169	Mr. President, thank you very much. On 3 July, the Arrival presented a draft resolution, suggesting to the Government the extension of the Regress Programme to emigrants from Madeira and the Azores, for reasons of basic justice and for the most basic respect for the Constitution. The PS voted against. On 2 November, on a proposal to add to the State budget, the arrival requires, again, the extension of the Programme Back to the same immigrants. On 11 November, i.e. 9 days later, a proposal for an amendment to the State budget of the Socialist Party itself — calling it 'clarification' — proposes to make the programme of returning, essentially re-entering the project of the coming, which had been extended to immigrants of the Azores and Madeira for months before. Apparently, it is not the first time, and I imagine that it will not be the last, that the Socialist Party leads proposals from the Arrival which, later, will come to present under other clothes like theirs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u170	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u171	There are several proposals to add to this 2023 budget, presented by the Arrival, aiming at a much greater integration in the whole national of our communities scattered around the world. It is not difficult to imagine that the Socialist Party will come to bring these and other proposals to be presented as their clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u172	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u173	To conclude, we have heard several times, either from the government bench or from the Socialist Party bench, that the arrival simply criticizes rather than presenting solutions. By the way, I remembered, a few days ago, a good friend in this house, a saying attributed to Churchill. The old Prime Minister said: "I love the opposition to make proposals. If they're good, I'll use them later as mine. If they're bad, I use them against the opposition. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u174	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u175	The Socialist Party is, by the way, a good student of conservative Winston Churchill. in that, they're congratulations! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u176	I'm asking for a stabilization of the topography of the gentlemen. Members in the Chamber, because these constant movements disturb the speaker and, above all, are a sign of disrespect to those who are speaking.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u177	It's disrespectful! They want to talk out there!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u178	And there is no one here who is not here because the people so decided and therefore we must all respect each other completely. We now move on to the proposal of the CFP to add Article 150. -A — Fund to support the treasury of micro and small enterprises. Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u179	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The micro, small and medium-sized enterprises ( MPMEs ) have not yet recovered from the impact of the epidemic, and are already experiencing the consequences of speculative price increases. The government's support has been insufficient, some have not even been paid — I mean support under the epidemic — and they have left the majority of MPMEs out. Despite the growing difficulties experienced by these companies, the Government has brought to the discussion a proposal for a budget which is mainly aimed at large companies, ignoring the reality of the country's economic fabric, based above all on MPME. In order to ensure the economic activity of the MPMEs and to safeguard jobs, we propose: the creation of a treasury support fund for micro and small enterprises with a deep-lost component; the exemption from autonomous taxation for the first car; the extension of VAT deduction (value added tax) for vehicles with more than three seats; the reduction of the reduced rate of IRC (cash income tax) for MPMEs to 12, 5 % in the first 15 thousand euros of collecting material; and a set of very significant proposals for the control and fixing of energy prices, which, as we all know, has a very significant weight in the costs of the MPMEs. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u180	On the same subject, Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, Antonio Mendonça Mendes now has the palace.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Paula Santos, it is not to repeat repeatedly that this budget does not look at small and medium-sized enterprises that their point becomes true, because their point is false, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u182	It's true! There's only for big companies!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u183	The honourable Member, in order to know the reality of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, has to know that the most important...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u184	Look what you're going to say!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u185	...to ensure the treasury of these companies is the extent that it is in force, and that the Government has made, to allow VAT deliveries to be made in six benefits, without interest. This is an enormous help in the treasury of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, and it is also a great help not to exacerbate autonomous taxation in the event of damage on the part of the same companies. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, what I would like to tell you is that the honourable Member has every right to defend her proposals, but what cannot be lacking in reality. And the reality of the facts is that the measures in force on the part of the Government allow the company to increase its liquidity, which was the concern that the honourable Member was expressing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u186	Only not!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u187	For the reply, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u188	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, what the Government cannot say here is that it has a set of measures in this Budget for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, when what is in fact a tax benefit to the economic groups. We can list them at ten! It's at ten! And this, in fact, with regard to the needs of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, leaves them completely out of the way, as happens, for example, at the level of energy. It is that what is in the Budget is the transfer of public resources to large energy companies, and that, no, does not support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u189	For the counter-reply, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u190	Mr President, Mrs Paula Santos, two facts which contradict what she said. Firstly, the increase in energy surpluses for all companies is in force. All micro, small and medium-sized enterprises can increase their energy costs by increasing their costs for IRC purposes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u191	What if they don't have a profit? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u192	If you don't have any profits, then you're going to increase!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u193	In the State budget, Mrs Deputy, the special IRC rate for small and medium-sized enterprises, of 17 %, is now applicable to the collection matter not of €25 000, but of €50 000. Mrs Deputy, there is a special IRC rate for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in the interior, of 12 %. [[Protests from the PCP and CH Member Pedro Pinto.]] The collecting material will be increased from €25 000 to €50 000.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u194	You know perfectly well that's not what's impacting!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u195	Mrs Deputies, your argument cannot be overdue, because it undermines the reality of the proposals and measures of the Government that are in force. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u196	We are now considering a proposal from the PSD to add a possible Article 150. o -A — Inclusion of pensioners resident outside the national territory in support of families to mitigate the effects of inflation. Mr Maló de Abreu, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u197	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Government members, in September, announced exceptional measures to support families to mitigate the effects of inflation and published a decree covering only pensioners resident in national territory. In other words, this measure, which aims to support families, in the face of increased cost of living, ends up completely excluding those who are emigrants, dealing with a manifest injustice, flagrantly disrespecting the equality of rights and disregarding, up to the end of the blackout, the oldest of our diaspora. There is neither, nor can there be, Portuguese divided by categories, first Portuguese and second Portuguese. There are neither, nor can there be, those who live here or those who have made themselves in the world, for how many times they have suffered and unheard of reasons. There are neither, nor can there be, Portuguese equal in duties, obligations and responsibilities, but different, because diminished, some, some, in their rights. To demolish the PS of cantoning in the alley of injustice, for lack of perception of the cost of life around the world, in divided pieces, I invite them to descend to the abyss of emigration, voluntary or forced, revisiting the narratives of travel, the novels of Camilo and Ferreira de Castro, the stories of Aquilino, the reflections of Torga, the texts of exile of Jorge de Sena and so many others. And I ask the PS if it is not your duty, and our obligation, to treat all Portuguese as shares of the same mother country, as equal in responsibilities, but also as equal in rights. The PSD proposes, at this opportunity, the addition that allows the inclusion of pensioners living outside the national territory in the measures to support families to mitigate the effects of inflation, because only that will be the answer to justice and only thus will the power and honour they deserve be found in words. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u198	We are now considering the proposal from the IL to add a possible Article 150. Mr Bernardo Blanco, of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u199	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, after the Socialist Government has buried 3 billion in an aircraft company, the only thing we ask the Portuguese, using an old motto of the height of the previous government, is that they do not close their eyes and see two things. The first is that you need to privatize already the TAP (Portuguese Air Transport, SGPS, SA) before the PS still burys more money. from the Azores to Bragança, no Portuguese family that does not use this company — the vast majority — must be obliged to pay 1000 €. None! The second thing is that we need to carry out a rapid audit of the process of nationalisation which the Socialist Government made in 2020 a process that did not have any economic rationality. TAP, in fact, already said it won't return anything — nothing! — contrary to what had been promised. This is in a European Union where the vast majority of countries have largely private companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u200	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u201	So, in summary, it is necessary to stop wasting taxpayers' money, but it is also necessary to start taking responsibility for political decision makers, starting with socialist political decision makers, who wasted money to fulfill their ideological dream and who later, when reality came, realized that the dream, after all, was a nightmare, and quickly changed position. António Costa, Pedro Nuno Santos, Fernando Medina went from fanatics of nationalization to defend privatization.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u202	It's too late!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u203	Minister Fernando Medina said that the most suitable model for TAP is private and that TAP should preferably be included in a private international aviation group. Minister Pedro Nuno Santos went on to say that the privatisation of TAP has always been on the table. I don't know what table this is, but one day he has to explain.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u204	It must be under the table!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u205	Prime Minister António Costa, in January, in the campaign, changed his position and began admitting to privatize TAP and, a few weeks ago, said here he hopes to privatize TAP in 2023. And the problem begins here, because we are discussing the 2023 budget and, if you want to privatize a value airline, I think — how is there nothing in the report, how is there nothing in revenue and how is there nothing in expenditure?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u206	We're gonna have to pay!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u207	Therefore, of both: either Mr. Prime Minister came to Parliament and lied or, then, it was the Ministry of Finance who lied and opposed Mr. Prime Minister. These doubts about the state of the TAP are not just ours. The UTAO (Technical Budget Support Unit) even asks: "Can these prospects dictate in 2023 more a financial intervention by the State in the group? There is a history of public opacity in the state's commitments to companies that justify some mistrust». He concluded by saying: « the budget document does not provide any financial support to this entity, but remains unknown the Economic Restructuring Plan approved by the European Commission. Do not keep on seeking. ” But it's not just the Liberal Initiative, nor is it just UTAO. The Public Finance Council is still considered to be a budgetary risk because there is no information available on the part of the Government. So in conclusion, we have been presenting the proposal for privatisation of TAP since 2019 — when it was not yet 100% nationalised — and it has always been plummeted. Unfortunately, only after having nationalized TAP to 100 % and wasted EUR 3, EUR 2 billion did the government realize that it was necessary to privatise. Better late than ever, I think, until the PS's ability to spend taxpayers' money is infinite. That's why it's better now to keep them from wasting more. But it's seeing to believe. And since the PS and PSD do not have any proposal for privatisation of TAP in this budget, the only way to comply with what Mr Prime Minister said, while fulfilling budgetary transparency, is to both vote in favour of the proposal for privatisation of TAP. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u208	On the same subject, Mr. Paulo Moniz, of the PSD, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u209	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in 2016, the PSD left the PS and the Government a private TAP. And, when you ask—and you have heard many times—what is the PSD solution, the PSD has already achieved it in 2016, and did it exactly in defense of the interests of the country and of the taxpayers' money, in respect of the Portuguese people. This solution did not last long because, ideologically forced by its left, the Socialist Party nationalized TAP, bringing again to the perimeter of Portuguese taxpayers a huge cost risk. At the end of this month of December, the last injection of the 3, 2 billion euros that decided to bury, incinerate, in the TAP will be made. It is money that the country needs as bread for the mouth and does not have for other priorities, but this was the wrong option of the Socialist Party and its government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u210	The PSD has always been responsible — and it continues to be — for the use of public money with particimony. Looking at these last years of democracy, this is certainly the worst example of how to get rid of, how to incinerate, without respect, the money that we all need for so many priorities that the country has. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u211	With regard to privatization and the proposal submitted by the Liberal Initiative, the PSD has done what others now want to do when it privatized TAP and left this inheritance to the Government of the Socialist Party. Now, the PSD believes that freedom must be given for the privatisation process to define, in fact, the true value and ultimately succeed, for everyone's sake, to see if the country will recover any of the 3200 million it placed there. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u212	But do they follow us or not? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u213	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u214	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u215	Mr. President, I am known for the partimony in spending. Mr. Paulo Moniz finished his speech when the painting marked 2 minutes and 9 seconds, but he continued to count up to 2 minutes and 13 seconds, and out there.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u216	For us too!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u217	It's happened to all the parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u218	So he asked if he had due attention in the record of time. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u219	They like the right accounts!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u220	Thank you very much for your comment. I request the services to be corrected.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u221	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u222	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u223	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u224	Please, Dr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u225	Mr President, what happened to the PSD has happened to all parties. So if you're going to give the PSD another 5 seconds, you have to give the other parties too, because in all interventions this has happened. And it wasn't just today, it was also yesterday and Monday.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u226	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u227	It has happened to all, therefore, it is not worth adding any more 4 or 5 seconds to the time available to the PSD. This is our opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u228	If the time count extended beyond the end of the intervention, it was counted more time, and this should be corrected.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u229	But it's happened to everyone.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u230	It is a matter of pure arithmetic, it has no political component, but all parliamentary groups and single Members know that I will manage my institutional watch obligations so that this does not undermine the liveliness of the political debate. So let's keep going. Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP, wishes to intervene on a price control regime on essential food cabbage products and does very well. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u231	Thank you very much, Mr President, so do we. [[Laughing.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, in this budgetary debate, we have often referred to the problem of inflation and to the percentage values of price increases. But, in concrete, what happened and is happening in people's lives is that a bread that cost 1 € now costs 1, 60 €, a milk package that cost 0, 58 € or 0, 60 € now costs 1 € and the price of fruits and vegetables almost doubled. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u232	What about Cuba?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u233	While many people face grueling difficulties to put food on the table and feed their children, while producers, small farmers, fishermen are crushed in the price of production and the increasing costs they bear, what the economic groups of the large distribution present are millionaire profits,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u234	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u235	You have to thank Russia!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u236	... overwhelmed with the difficulties of the vast majority of the people. Last year — last year! - Jerome Martins showed a profit...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u237	And there was no war? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u238	Things! Look at the profits!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u239	... of EUR 463 million plus 48, 3 % compared to 2020, and Sonae showed a profit of EUR 268 million plus 45, 6 % compared to 2020. this year only in the first nine months, Jerome Martins has already made 419 million euros, plus 29, 3 % more than in the same period of 2021.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u240	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u241	Inflation is not all imported, as the Prime Minister said and as some Members say here. This brutal price increase results from speculative practices,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u242	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u243	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u244	...by taking advantage of what is being done with regard to sanctions and war. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, people's access to food, essential food goods, cannot be denied by the economic groups' profit strategies. However, the representative of the large distribution, Director General Lobo Xavier, has already said that prices still have room to increase! [[Now, exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u245	When the situation is about this gravity, democracy must put people forward for profit.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u246	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u247	The CFP's proposal is precisely to create a price control regime, to prevent the escalation which is being verified, to apply to an essential food tank, which sets a reference price for each of the products, on the basis of actual costs and on a non- speculative margin, prohibiting sales at higher prices without reasonable grounds. As regards the list of goods in the cabaz, it is determined on the basis of the list of foodstuffs subject to a reduced VAT rate of 6 %. We also apply the same proposal with regard to price control of fuels, preventing speculative practices and margins in marketing from being refined. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not enough to lower taxes! We cannot subsidize the profits of the economic groups. What is needed is to control prices and have the political courage to face the interests of the large economic groups. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u248	To intervene on the free distribution of women's personal hygiene goods, Mrs. Eunice Pratas of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u249	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, the fight against menstrual poverty has been a flag defended by the PS for several years, in particular by the young Members of this bench. With regard to the amendments tabled by the Block on the Left, the Arrival and the Book on this subject, although they show concern about this subject, we do not believe they are relevant, given that in the past the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 312 / 2021 was adopted, which provides for measures guaranteeing access to menstrual hygiene products to be implemented through a programme established within the framework of the National Health Service. The NAP proposal already meets the proposal put forward by the Socialist Party, which comes to continue and deepen what is already enshrined in the State Budget Act for 2022 on this matter. These proposals for free access to menstrual hygiene products represent an important step forward in combating stigma and prejudices associated with menstruation. Specifically, the PS proposal, in addition to ensuring access to menstrual hygiene products, provides for advice on its use and, of course, on other related issues. But its inclusion in the State Budget for 2023 law also seeks to deepen the culture of educational dialogue, so necessary, on this subject and that the present and future generations of women are more confident and enlightened and have greater equal opportunities for previous generations. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u250	Menstruation should neither be a limitation in the life of a young person, by compromising his school attendance due to his family's economic shortage, questioning his dreams. In the 21st century, we must continue the struggle for the conquest of women's sexual and reproductive rights in the name of gender equality and opportunities. Menstruing is neither a choice nor an option, so we cannot allow it to be a factor of discrimination. For this reason, we are presenting this amendment so that Portugal will continue to be an example as to the advancement of women's rights and the issue of gender equality and opportunities. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u251	To take a decision on the proposal for a Article 150. o-D — Update of pensions to 2023, has the floor of Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u252	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Socialist Party is presenting a proposal which is nothing more than a hand full of nothing. when we read this proposal, we don't realize it, because it talks in updating pensions for the year 2023, but we don't know when, how, or in what circumstances. So, little is known about this proposal. But there are two purposes that we realize: the first is that of illusion, to continue the illusion that they will guarantee pensioners and reformed the maintenance of purchasing power.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u253	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u254	That's not true! In fact, if the Socialist Party and the Government were concerned about ensuring the purchasing power of pensioners and pensioners, they had not run the law and updated pensions in accordance with the rules in force. The second purpose of this proposal is to make the cut of EUR 1000 million in the pension system forgotten. [[PSD applause.]] Mrs. Members, none of these purposes are serious and, worse, this is not the way to solve the problems and difficulties that pensioners and pensioners are feeling now and, unfortunately, they will feel in the future. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u255	We have now reached Article 151. the, concerning the IRS, within which we have several — in fact, 17! — inscriptions. I begin by giving the floor to Mrs Carla Castro of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u256	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, in this State budget, we have several measures that correct injustice within IRS, particularly in terms of deductions to collection, and update deductions related to the context of inflation that we live in. I will highlight two of these measures, the first of which concerns the real estate market and, in particular, the deduction of interest on housing credit. According to the current law, there is the possibility of deduction of credit interest to own and permanent housing. But what's the problem? They refer exclusively to contracts prior to 2012. Considering the evolution of interest rates, at present two persons may be paying their loans to housing, with the same amount of interest to be settled over the period, but only one of them may submit deductions. We do not agree with this discrimination. In addition, it is essential to increase the deductibility of expenditure with the evolution of housing costs in the context of inflation, as I have already said, and therefore we also propose an increase in the limit of the deductions applied. A second proposal on deductions we would like to see approved concerns education. Currently, the system of tax deductions competes with the education expenses of the various members of the aggregate, i.e. the limits of deduction of education expenses in IRS apply to the whole family aggregate, regardless of how many family members study, regardless of how many family members need to rent accommodation in order to continue their studies – and we have spoken in the cases of students displaced in higher education – or, for example, not considering the parents who have resumed the studies. We therefore propose that deductions be based on the expenses of each member of the family aggregate, thus significantly reducing the costs of families investing in education, regardless of their age, level of education or number of children. In addition, we propose to increase the limits of deductions in a substantial way, focusing mainly on the limit of housing rental expenses. This is another incentive to deduction, particularly in higher education, reflecting the costs of education. In the Liberal Initiative, it is quite clear that we make proposals necessary to effectively degrade the tax burden of expenditure on education. If this is the 'First Family Budget' and focused on education, we believe that these proposals could be approved. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u257	Mr Alexandre Simões, from the PSD, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u258	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government of the PS, in its propaganda interest, intends to present this Budget as a friend of the families by reducing the tax burden. In view of this, I would say that it is only at one point that the Budget is surplus and presents a true surplus: in propaganda and in the art of misleading the Portuguese. In tax matters, even above all limits, such is boldness and defamation, but it is in the IRS stages that reaches scandal forums. The government says it lowers the IRS, showing to update the steps by 5, 1 %, after all the inflation and wage devaluation that hit the workers. It sends rigor and truth to say that in IRS, the upgrade of the steps must take account of the inflation of 2022. By not updating the steps in the current year, the government has received one of the biggest revenue increases in this tax in history: 14 %! This was the increase in the estimated revenue until September. It is therefore a confidation that has never been seen before! We can say with all ownership that there are excessive, abusive profits on the part of someone in this country, with the illegitimate profit of such a terrible social and economic environment for all Portuguese, that someone was the government. However, there would be no need for an extraordinary rate of income earned by the State at the expense of workers and pensioners. It would suffice, as the PSD proposes here — and that this House can and should approve — to update the steps of the IRS by the same value as inflation. This is the PSD proposal, which promises that, on the one hand, it would guarantee fiscal neutrality but, on the other hand, that all Portuguese would gain in fiscal justice and trust that is due to the State and to those who have the responsibility to govern. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u259	I now give the floor to Mr Filipe Melo of the Republic of Norway.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u260	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we live a particularly difficult period with inflation reaching historical records and with the unbridled rise in interest rates. He came to pay attention to this problem and made a proposal that comes to the families: exempting the tribute, at the headquarters of IRS, from the Christmas allowance and from the holiday allowance, in 2023. It is a proposal to provide families with a little more income that can stimulate consumption or encourage small savings in their family budgets. It is a proposal that aims, above all, at people. We leave this challenge on the side of the Socialist Party: is it this time that you will make a fair contribution to your premise of « Families First»? Are you really going to accept this proposal and help families or, because of demagogy and ideological issues, are you not going to be on the side of families increasing their incomes? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u261	Mr Ivan Gonçalves of the PS is still speaking.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u262	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, less than a year ago, the Portuguese gave an absolute majority to the Socialist Party to govern and deal with the difficulties, without compromising the future of the country. This is what the government has done: to act in the face of the succession of crises that have arisen in our way, ensuring the protection of the most vulnerable, also through the reduction of taxes on their incomes, as is done in this proposal for a State Budget. Thus, it is not of little importance to update the steps of the IRS, which will benefit about 3 million aggregates and will allow the relief of 300 million euros. As it is not of little importance to reduce the marginal rate of 2. the step, which has the effect of reducing all average rates above this and will benefit about 2 million aggregates with a tax breakdown of about 200 million euros.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u263	You want to give 2 euros to each!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u264	In addition, the increase in the value of the minimum of existence or the correction of distortions of marginal rates and intervals in retention tables, which so far have a regression effect and which, from 2023 onwards, will ensure that a higher gross wage will always correspond to an increase in net wages.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u265	For the cafes!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u266	Nor is it of little importance to increase pensions or agreements that guarantee increases in workers' wages, both in public and in the private sector. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if in this discussion, in the speciality of the State budget for 2023, we were confronted with more than 200 amendments to the IRS Code alone, in a parade of buds and exemptions with a lot of creativity to the mix, the truth is that the pinacle of irresponsibility is even the proposal that the Liberal Initiative brings us. According to the analysis made by the Technical Unit of Budgetary Support, of Parliament, the conservative estimate...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u267	Conservative, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u268	... of loss of revenue to the State would be EUR 3000 million, almost 23 % of the total revenue of IRS collected by the State over each year. In front of this data, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, there are only two options: either you are so unprepared that, if you were to govern, not knowing the effects of your proposals, what would happen to them would be exactly what happened to the British neoliberal government — nor would they warm up the place. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[IL Rodrigo Saraiva's laughs.]] Or, on the contrary, Mr. Members are well aware of the effects of your proposals and what they would have to say to us, because this is the question that lies in the air: what would you be willing to sacrifice to implement this proposal? [[IL protests.]] Was it the National Health Service? They were pensions or 13. the month, how did the right hand get used to us? Was it public school? Were they the security forces? Where were they cutting?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u269	TAP!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u270	Tell us where they cut these EUR 3000 million every year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, one thing is certain: whether by impreparation or ideological blindness, the Portuguese know well that you and the rest of the opposition are no alternative and that is why they trust the Socialist Party,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u271	It's going to their pocket!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u272	... as well as demonstrated in January 2021. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u273	Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto of the Liberal Initiative now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u274	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, our proposal for IRS steps aims to create a single rate for people with lower wages, for people who earn less than half of our salary as deputies. We are talking about people who earn 900 €, 1000 €, 1200 € liquid per month, people who earn less, in liquid terms, than the minimum wage in more prosperous and liberal countries, spends the pleonasm, such as Ireland, the Netherlands or Luxembourg. [[Applause from the IL.]] It is a proposal that will maintain unchanged the tax burden on higher incomes,... [[We know!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u275	... eliminating the great concern that other parties presented in the past in relation to the single rate. They ask us how much it will cost to measure.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u276	Didn't you ask UTAO?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u277	They ask us if the State budget can stand. [[Protests from PS Miguel Cabrite.]] We do politics seriously and therefore ask UTAO to assess the impact of our proposal. We were the only party in this House with the courage to ask an external entity to evaluate a proposal of yours. [[Applause from the IL.]] In 1800 proposals, there was only one party whose proposing party requested it to be examined externally. from this assessment, even though it is conservative and pessimistic... and I tell you, Mr. Secretary of State of the Budget, it was conservative and pessimistic, because its Secretary of State did not provide the data...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u278	All right! [[PS Members' laughs.]] ...and the instruments that UTAO needs to do a complete analysis. In fact, you should be ashamed not to do so! [[PS protests.]] But according to UTAO, according to the conservative and pessimistic analysis of UTAO, even if this measure is approved, the State will continue to have more revenue in 2023 than in 2022. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u279	Therefore, the right question is not whether the State budget holds this proposal to be approved; the right question is whether the families are holding this proposal to be rejected. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] But I propose to you an exercise of imagination: let's imagine that the liberal initiative was government. Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u280	Jesus Christ!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u281	Calm down. We'll be there. Let us imagine that this proposal was already a reality today. If this proposal were already a reality today, who in this House, from the right to the left, under current circumstances, would approve an increase in IRS for medium and low wages? Who would propose here that the workers, who earn half our salary, pass a rate of 14, 5 % to a marginal rate of more than 30 %? Tell me, who would have the courage to do that if this were the case?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u282	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u283	Today afternoon, we will have to choose between two options: or our proposal for a single rate of 14, 5 % in wages below half of our salary; or the Government's proposal which, in relation to ours, consists of a fiscal increase aimed at middle and low classes—that is because, do not forget, these EUR 3000 million you are talking about come from these classes, come from the people who earn the least in this country. [[Applause from the IL.]] With regard to our proposal, the Government's proposal puts the IRS rates at levels that no other European country has for such low wages. If they accept the Government's proposal, instead of our own, Portugal will continue to be the European champion of the middle classes and the disrespect for the incomes of those who work. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u284	I now give the floor to the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u285	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the article on income tax for natural persons and I would like to begin by pointing out an objective fact: the reductions at the level of the IRS that the Government has decided since 2015 and that they continue in this proposal for the State budget mean a reduction of EUR 1800 million for families — EUR 1800 million for family tax reduction!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u286	There it may be!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u287	And we're doing it, because we can do it,
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u288	They can also do these that we propose!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u289	... because there are governments that decide to drop taxes abruptly and 15 days later they go to the eye of the street and are replaced by governments that increase taxes. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That's why the trajectory of public accounts, which we've been doing since 2015, is...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u290	Blow the middle class! That's what PS does!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u291	... a safety path, a reduction in public debt, so that we do not raise taxes for future generations, is a reduction in the tax burden on families and businesses and, I would stress again, is a decrease of EUR 1800 million in the tax burden of families only at the level of IRS. I would also like to stress that, with regard to the concern that Mrs Carla Castro brings here — and I would like to thank her — about families and the deduction of families, we will always have a line that separates what we, the Government, consider in this matter and what the Liberal Initiative considers. The first decision we made with regard to the consideration of family aggregates was to eliminate the family quotient and replace it with a deduction for each of the children, because for us, a child of the poor is worth as much as a child of the rich. That is an essential difference between us. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is a difference, Mrs Deputy, which then translates into concrete political options. I just remember that when we recently assigned support to children because of the increase in inflation we attributed it to all children, regardless of whether they are children of wealthy parents or daughters of poor parents. But in the deductions, Mrs. Member, we have created the deduction for 600 € and this proposal for the State Budget we are discussing is the one that allows the deduction for the second child to rise to 900 € for families who have children from three years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Madam Member, it seems to me that our concern is on the right track. Mr Alexandre Simões repeated what he said a few months ago, regarding the update of IRS steps, with an inaccuracy, Mr Simões, because the budget measures are not chosen and cut, should be seen together. Mr Deputy, as a whole the update of IRS steps to 5, 1 % — moreover, in accordance with the competitiveness agreement and incomes signed in social consultation, the amendment of the rules of minimum existence and the decline of the marginal rate of 2. the step at two percentage points, this set means an effective reduction of IRS in the order of EUR 500 million. Therefore, Mr President, these amendments are absolutely structural amendments which go far beyond what the PSD proposal is. In fact, the PSD has come to propose something that it has never done, which is to update IRS steps. I would like to remind you that the last decision the PSD made on IRS steps was to reduce the number of IRS steps. We, what we did in terms of decisions on IRS steps, were much more than that. It was to increase the number of steps, update them and lower the tax rate. That is why, Mr President, the legacy that the right has left us was a brutal increase in taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u292	It was the troika!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u293	Government action, at the end of seven years, represents the decrease of EUR 1800 million in IRS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, we come to the proposal of the Liberal Initiative. I would like to congratulate you very much, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, on the intelligence you have revealed. It has revealed a huge intelligence, because it began by proposing a single tax rate; last year it has advanced and, instead of a single tax rate, it has proposed a few more steps; and now it has proposed three steps and the increase of marginal rates from certain steps — I repeat, it has proposed the increase of marginal tax rates at certain steps — because it has learned the functioning of marginal rates and the functioning of the tax. So I want to congratulate you. [[Protests by the Member of the IL Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u294	He's still coming!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u295	I also want to tell you one thing: I am very hopeful that you will reach the end of the legislature and realize the importance of having nine steps of IRS and not three. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the IL Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]] But, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, then we go to those you say you want to protect. The honourable Member will return to the example of those who earn up to half a member's salary. I believe that you have every interest and political will to answer that question, and I would like to tell you what we have done over the past seven years for this kind of income.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u296	They stopped growing!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u297	We lowered 37% of the IRS for those who earn up to 10 000 €...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u298	Ask them if it's enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u299	... 59 % for those who earn between 10 000 € and 15 000 € per year;...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u300	Ask them if they have enough money!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u301	... 21 % for those who earn between €15 000 and €20 000 per year; 13 % for those who earn between €20 000 and €25 000 per year; 9 % for those who gain between €25 000 and €30 000.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u302	Keep bouncing the middle class!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u303	Mr President, we are making a huge reduction in taxes on a continuous basis, and I am even very hopeful that you, with the learning you have had, will realize that this is the weighting that enables us, in a safe way, to lower taxes every year so that this tax reduction will never result in a subsequent tax increase. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u304	Ask them if it's enough.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u305	Mr President, in order to conclude this point, I would also like to say the following: we provide all the information that UTAO considers necessary...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u306	UTAO says no!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u307	... so that you can make the appropriate calculation of tax expenditure. Anyway, Mr President, I want to tell you that this morning I read the news and asked for the UTAO report. I had asked my office to also account for the value of your proposal and I must say that we have reached very similar values.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u308	Then give us the data!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u309	This allows me, Mr President, to tell you that we are talking about EUR 3 billion of permanent revenue that we would lose.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u310	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u311	He argued that, even if he did, the IRS revenue would rise the following year.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u312	No, that's not what I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u313	The honourable Member has argued that.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u314	The state recipe!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u315	The state's revenue would increase, very well.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u316	You didn't hear what I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u317	I have listened very carefully to you, Mr. Mr President, we are presenting a budget which provides for a negative budget balance of 0, 9 % and which has these EUR 3 billion revenue. If you want to withdraw this revenue, it is legitimate to defend it, but it is also legitimate for me to ask you the following: do you want to cut EUR 2, EUR 3 billion in unemployment benefit? Is that where you want to cut?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u318	100 billion! You have more revenue than last year!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u319	Mr. Deputy wants to cut €800,000 off the family allowance? Or do you want to cut into 2, 3 billion euros of structural investments? [[Protests by the Member of the IL Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]] Mr. Member, I think Mr. Member is from Maia, I have an idea that Mr. Member is from Maia...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u320	No, I'm not Maia! I have nothing against Maia, but I'm not from there...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u321	He was elected by the electoral circle of Porto. I would like to ask you whether the honourable Member, in the course of the revenue you make, will take the expense to complete the national road No. 14 of Maia.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u322	They're gonna have more revenue!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u323	I ask you whether you want to cut in the South International Corridor or in what is the universalization of the digitalization of the school.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u324	They're gonna have more revenue!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u325	You have to say here seriously, wherever you want to cut. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[IL protests.]] Mr President, to conclude, we have recent examples, but I can even give you previous examples. With the same intelligence that you have managed, year after year, to learn better the functioning of the marginal rates of IRS, Mr. Deputies, do not forget the following: the fiscal shock always ends in a real shock.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u326	He knows what that is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u327	And so, Mr President, I think very well before I make these drastic proposals, which are not useful. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Our path is clear, our path is to reduce taxes, always safely. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u328	I now give the floor to Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u329	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, this budget exacerbates the fiscal injustice framework by penalizing labour incomes for small businesses while deepening tax systems of privilege for large economic groups. It is a Budget that lowers the nominal revenue of IRC, increases the revenue and weight of IRS in total direct taxes and also increases the weight of indirect taxes, which are the most unfair, as is the case with VAT. In the IRS Code, the Government opts to maintain the tax system of privilege for non-standard residents, which represents annually a loss of tax revenue that already goes to almost EUR 1000 million per year, as well as contributing to real estate speculation. It is time to repeal this scheme, this genuine single rate which applies to non-standard residents. The Secretary of State combats the single rates here, however, when it comes to talking about the single rate that unusual residents do not want to revoke. It is also time to adopt tax relief measures on workers' incomes. These are the proposals of the CFP: the updating of the IRS steps at the inflation rate rather than at the rate proposed by the Government, the updating, also at the inflation rate, the value of deductions, in particular of general family and housing expenditure, and also, in particular, the increase in specific deductions at the inflation rate, because the value of specific deductions has been frozen since 2010.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u330	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u331	There are already 12 years of real income loss, an accumulated inflation of 12 %, to which the inflations of this year and of the next year will be added, largely exceeding 20 % of actual income loss available. The PCP proposes to start in 2023 the recovery of this accumulated loss, increasing the specific deduction by around 380 €, which would, for example, mean a taxpayer of 3. the IRS step, a tax reduction of around 100 €. These measures are neither a blessing nor a rumbe in the Budget, are measures that update at the inflation rate the different components that integrate the IRS and which, if not updated, penalize taxpayers, penalize labour income, with the worsening of the IRS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u332	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u333	Relieve the IRS to the income of workers and pensioners, end the privileges of non-standard residents: these are the proposals that the CFP places on the table, within the framework of the IRS. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u334	I now give the floor to Mrs Mariana Mortágua of BE.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u335	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, in Portugal, a pensioner receiving €800 pension pays an average IRS rate of 17 %. Another pensioner, not resident, who buys a house to spend the summer months in Portugal, pays an IRS rate of 10 %, whether his pension is €800, €800 or €8000 — 10 %, single rate, that rate that Mr. Secretary of State has just criticized and that the IL defends. Single rate! A worker with a salary of 1300 €, or more than 1300 €, always pays more than 20 % of IRS. Any person with wages above €1300 pays more than 20 % of the average rate of IRS. Another non-resident worker who spends a few months of the year in Portugal, we call it a digital nomad, if we want, to pay 20 % — 20 %, whether the salary is 1500 €, 5000 € or 15 000 € per month. I ask the Socialist Party and the Government: how much cynicism is necessary to defend such injustice? How much cynicism is needed? How much discharge is needed to defend a progressive rate for residents and a flat rate for non-residents? So the importance of the nine steps does not exist for non-residents? Is there only for residents? Mr. Secretary of State, please tell us what is the line that separates the PS from the IL. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u336	It's a wall!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u337	Mr. Miguel Rodrigues of the PS now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u338	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, allow me to begin this intervention by wishing, from this bench and this Chamber, the best luck and congratulations to the medical finalists and all the young doctors who today perform their national proof of access to medical expertise, because soon they will grow the ranks of the National Health Service...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u339	Or emigrate!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u340	...and because they do it knowing that they will have the biggest specialty map of the time, that will allow them to complete their medical training. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, it was for these young people and for all the young people in this country that the government created IRS Young in 2020. This is a programme of impulse to young people at the beginning of their career and has been reinforced... [[Protests by CH Member Rita Matias.]] Mrs Rita Matias, do not protest against the IRS Young, because she is well at the age of accessing it. You should be thanking us! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]] Therefore, Mr. President, IRS Young was strengthened in 2020 and was reinforced in 2022 by the proposals of the socialist youth... [[CH protests.]] ... that have expanded their coverage in age, that have made it automatic. It is again reinforced in this State budget, exempting half of the payment of IRS a young person in his first job, of 40% of the payment of IRS no 2. the year of work,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u341	You have to have the Socialist Party card! Oh, my God! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u342	... of 30 % No 3. o is number four. the year and 20 % no 5. year. This reinforcement is not only financially fair, it is also morally fair, because it is many of the difficulties young people face, after having throughout their lives faced several global crises. We do not respond to them either with stagnation or with the diabolization of the social state.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u343	Send us out! Send us emigration!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u344	If there are difficulties in access to housing, we respond with a public housing park; if young people care about climate action, we respond with the greatest investment ever in mobility and rail... [[CH's laughs.]] If young people and non-young people still have difficulty in access to health, and we know that they exist, we respond with the highest health budget ever; and if young people need help at the beginning of their lives, IRS Young is the answer. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u345	Mr. Carlos Eduardo Reis of the PSD now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u346	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that, beyond the first-needed goods that the CFP spoke recently, what afflicts Portuguese is the question of credit for housing. We're talking about a universe of nearly a million and a half families and about 4 million affected Portuguese. In this regard, I believe that we cannot only have contemplative or even ineffective measures, such as those which the Government has so far taken. So about a month ago, we called Parliament the Portuguese Banks Association and also the DECO (Consumer's Defence) in a debate in which, of course, a large part of the Parliamentary Groups participated and we were able to draw two clear conclusions. The first conclusion is that time is running against us and interest rates are rising faster than government measures and what the situation requires. With an additional problem here: Portugal cannot expect Europe to solve the problems of the Portuguese, which is what the government is very used to, because it gives the circumstance of much of the credit contracts to housing in Europe to be at a fixed rate and we will be very exposed, in Portugal, with 93 % variable rate. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u347	But there is another conclusion that we can also draw: we can say that we are absolutely alone in this war, because the bank, always so available for state aid, has an absolutely cynical position in this matter, and it even arrives, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to saying that politicians should avoid paternalist measures. [[PSD applause.]] Now, I understand that it is nothing paternalistic here that we are debating measures, creating measures to combat increases of 100, 200, 300, or up to 400 € in the family budget in relation to housing credit. But there is good news in this matter: that we have power in this House the responsibility, the obligation and the opportunity to take measures that reduce the impact on families. However, in this parliamentary framework that we live in, the Socialist Party has a crucial role, it has an absolute majority, and I have listened very carefully to what your parliamentary leader has said. Mr. Eurico Brilliant Days said that he was available to welcome and approve measures from other parties that change people's lives. Now, of course, I appeal to all banks, but above all to the Socialist Party, to approve the extension of deductions to IRS collection on housing credit, which ultimately recovers the regime already in force in 2010, with the possibility of deducting interest, depreciation and other previous limits. The logic is simple: if you understand that austerity has ended, as they propagate, we will return income tax on an annual hit, already applying the tax year 2022 clearances.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u348	What about the bank? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u349	If you will, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with measures like this we will be further away from creating a crisis in the real estate market, coupled with the inflationist crisis that we already have. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u350	Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u351	Mr President, I have to tell Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs that you lied here. We look at Table 3.1 of the report of your State Budget and we have total revenue from the State in 2022 of 104, 8 billion euros and, by 2023, we have 111 billion euros. We are talking about an increase in government revenue over EUR 6 billion. Therefore, even if the EUR 3000 million of IRS revenues were true and there was no other effect, however, would result in an increase in government revenues from 2022 to 2023 from EUR 3000 million. All these expenses that Mr. Secretary of State spoke here were already being made in 2022 and would certainly continue to be made in 2023, even with this court in the IRS. Mr. Secretary of State is simply lying when he says that it is necessary to cut spending on 2022, that it is necessary to cut unemployment benefit, education, or health care because, even with this reduction of IRS, the Portuguese State would continue to have more revenue in 2023 than in 2022. But I give you back the challenge, Mr Secretary of State, because this money does not come from heaven. I ask you to tell the families where they should cut to pay their IRS fees. Tell them! [[Applause from the IL.]] Tell people who earn 1000 €, 1100 €, 1200 € where they should cut. Is it in the child's health insurance? Is it on the electricity bill? Is it in the food? Because that's where these people are going to have to cut to pay the taxes you're defending. And you should be ashamed to say that they're going to get these people EUR 3000 million! They should be ashamed of their faces when they say « how we only want to increase the spending of the state, we will ask these people, people who earn less than half of what we have earned, who cut their health, in their education, in their electricity, in their food». You should be ashamed to shake the flag of EUR 3000 million! This afternoon, we are going to present a proposal that is not of subsidy or charity, it is a proposal that will allow those who receive a housing grant to have the same tax treatment as this subsidy that currently exists for the food allowance. It is a simple proposal that will allow anyone who receives today or can come to receive in the future, a public or private employer, a subsidy to pay the costs of housing, having this subsidy exactly the same tax treatment as the food allowance currently has. For many people, the fact that this measure is or is not approved today can make a difference between being with your home or not. But let them be disappointed: if they approve this measure, they will not be doing charity. I repeat this because this money is from them, it's money that people get to pay for their housing. We will simply allow that money that is intended for housing to be used for housing rather than for fattening the state machine. If they reject this proposal, they will double the effort that workers will have to make to meet housing costs. No one who is genuinely concerned about housing problems in this country will be able to reject this proposal. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u352	I now give the floor to Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs, Antonio Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u353	Mr President, allow me to address Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto to tell him that I will maintain, in my speech, the same level of urbanity that I kept in the first,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... seeking to respect your views, Mr President, but to avoid the qualifiers as to how we express ourselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u354	They're facts! I just said you lied!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u355	Mr President, I would therefore like to go directly to the question you have raised, because you mentioned an objective point in saying that in revenue the State budget increases from 104 billion to 111 billion, and that is true. In addition, he concluded that "if I cut 3 billion of this IRS revenue, you will continue to have more revenue than you had last year", which is also true. There is only one part missing: the expenditure exercise of this Budget is based on a forecast of revenue and this expenditure, in fact, is also affected by inflation, for example. The honourable Member says 'if the accounts are true', but I have to tell you that my office has made these accounts and they coincide with those of UTAO. Normally, the gentlemen. Members are very jealous of the information of UTAO, but I respect the institutions and therefore I do well to give that number. Mr President, if that number has meaning, we will have less of this revenue, which means an increase of 1, 2 percentage points — 1, 2 percentage points!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u356	But you have more VAT!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u357	What I ask you is: will you go to the deficit, that is, if you go to the deficit go to debt and taxes for future generations? Or, then, in order not to go to the deficit, I have to cut another expense. That is why I have listed a set of expenditure and asked the honourable Member, with all the democratic humility, where he wants to cut the expenditure. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u358	Keep spending last year!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u359	I understand that you don't want to cut the cost, so I'm going to assume you want to raise the debt. And I repeat, as I continue to think that you are a person who thinks deeply about matters, if debt increases by 1, 2 percentage points of GDP, I look forward to your proposal to increase taxes for future generations, because that is the consequence of your thinking.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u360	You don't have to do that! That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u361	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Duarte Alves, raised a relevant issue, which has to do with the specific deduction. It is true that the specific deduction provided for the €4104, which is applicable to dependent workers and pensioners, has not been updated for many years.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u362	12 years ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u363	However, although not updated for many years, there were other instruments of the tax system that somehow compensated for this non-update. This is even the budget in which the question that you put is probably not so relevant. Why? The specific deduction is updated from €4104 to €8916 for those who earn from €760.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u364	You know it's not the same thing!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u365	And from 760 € to 1000 € there is a regression in this increase in the specific deduction that makes, then, the 4104 € apply to all those who win from 1000 € per month.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u366	What about intermediate income?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u367	Mr President, it is not fair to say that this State budget does not update the specific deduction. It is not an update, it doubles the specific deduction for those who have wages up to 760 €. Mrs Mariana Mortágua raised the issue of non-standard residents. As you put a very specific question, I want to be very clear on what is the line that divides the left — where we are included — on the right. We are not in favour of any flat fee. In fact, Mrs Deputies, I believe that my speeches on behalf of the Government are very clear about this and those of the PS Parliamentary Group too. Therefore, the honourable Member said that unusual residents have associated a flat rate, but it is a flat rate that applies only to a certain time period and then these people usually enter the tax system.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u368	And why?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u369	Even more important than the regime of unusual residents, which also has its importance for the dynamisation of our economic fabric, is the creation of the Return Program, which allows and wants to rescue those people who have left the right banks since 2011. We want to rescue them, we want them to return to Portugal, and we give a very significant tax incentive and that restores some balance in terms of justice in this distribution. I believe that Mrs Mariana Mortágua knows us well enough, we have worked together for many years, particularly in amendments to the IRS, which must also be credited to your bench and to the bench of the Portuguese Communist Party,... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u370	...and you know well that what we will never accept are these unique rates, which, in fact, the right has already abandoned because you realized the nonsense that they are. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u371	Oh, so cute! It was nice!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u372	It was a statement of love!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u373	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u374	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the line which divides the Liberal Initiative of the Socialist Party, by the way, is the line of the border between Portugal and Spain,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u375	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u376	... because, if you are not a resident, you can have a flat rate and, if you are a resident, you have a progressive rate. Mr. Secretary tells us: « We are against the flat rate, but if it is only for a few years, it can also be. And then he goes on to say: "Mrs. Member knows us well, we are unable to have a flat rate [...]" — it exists— "[...] but, look, we have here another regime of the IRS which is also very good! » That's it! This is the answer to such incoherence of the Socialist Party in this matter. It's not just incoherence, it's cynicism and it's rejection. That is all: an injustice of this size applied to all pensioners who receive a very low pension and to those who receive a very low salary. Mr. Secretary of State, I want to tell you about another injustice and other inconsistency. At best, cryptococosis is a speculative bubble. At worst, it's a Ponzi scheme. [[CH protests.]] These financial assets are unstable, they're unsafe, they're machines to hurt, they're no use for anything, they're no instruments of saving, they're no investment instruments, they're not...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u377	They're a pain in the ass!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u378	... and the Secretary of State tells me by soul who is exempting part of the capital gains from tax payments. By whose soul is it that the Socialist Party exempts the "bath of the cobra" from paying a tax? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u379	Digital cobra bath!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u380	For an intervention, Mr Miguel Iglesias of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u381	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the proposal to amend the PS Parliamentary Group on the new tax framework for cryptoactives has a very simple but very important objective: to improve the protection of consumers and taxpayers, to improve the protection of investors of this type of financial asset, which has grown enormously in recent years, and is to praise its importance as regards the number of companies that have been created in our country, the technological innovation they bring and the value they bring.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u382	Let's go!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u383	But it is indeed necessary to create a legal framework which harmonizes tax rules and in line with the new regulation on crypto markets which has already been approved by the European Council. We have contributed to this proposal for a balanced adjustment of environmental concerns, with a simplified regime of IRS and IRC, applying a higher coefficient for the determination of collectable matter in relation to mining activities, an activity which has a huge environmental footprint, and which also serves the best recommendations of the European Commission. On the other hand, this amendment defines anti-abuse standards and defines that the exemption from capital gains and transactions between cryptoactives is not applied when beneficiaries or entities paying incomes are resident in the country or jurisdiction without information exchange instruments. in the same way, it is proposed that residents in tax havens cannot deduct any losses with cryptoactives.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u384	Oh, then it's okay!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u385	No one has any doubt that, in such a complex and disruptive area as the cryptoactive ones, it is essential to be implacable in the fight against money laundering, being rigorous in the possible advantages that are attributed in the fiscal framework to this type of activity.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u386	We're looking at it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u387	It's crazy!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u388	It also refers to other points, such as forms of remuneration arising from transactions relating to cryptoactive transactions and the deferral of taxation for the time of conversion into legal or other currencies that do not take the form of crypto, in line with the option adopted in other jurisdictions, such as France or Austria, among other technical standards that go in the same direction, always ensuring the protection of the public record. In short, Portugal is placed in the front line of countries with greater transparency as regards cryptoactives, with a clear position in the fight against fraud and tax evasion,... [[Rice from PCP MP Bruno Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u389	Leave things alone!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u390	... constantly establishing a fiscal framework for the continuation of growth in these innovative technological areas and attracting companies and foreign investment to Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u391	Mrs Marcia Passos, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u392	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this State budget does not have a single incentive measure for the stability of the lease for permanent housing. The Social Democratic Party has a concrete proposal: reduction of autonomous rates for housing leases from 2 to 5 years and from 5 to 10 years and still for renovations, a reduction that goes up to 14 percentage points. But more funny is that the Socialist Party agrees with this measure. You don't say that in the State Budget, but you say in the national housing plan... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u393	... and says you want to do until 2026. It's not 2026, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it's now that the Portuguese need it. That's why, sirs. Members of the Government, there is no reason not to vote in favour of a measure with which you agree and of which Portugal now needs. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u394	Mr Rui Rocha, from the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u395	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members in Portugal, the success, merit and recognition of work are generally very ill-treated. We've reached the point, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have the CFP to defend low income taxes. That's where we are today, the PCP wants low income taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u396	We always defend!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u397	Therefore, this means that there is a brutal distortion of what is the weight of income taxes, which leads to the PCP being scandalized with the situation we have reached. This is true, in general, we know the phenomenon of the hyperprogressivity of income tax, but it is also true, in a specific case,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u398	If ignorance paid taxes! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u399	... which is that of liberal professionals and self-employed workers. in this house, there is no concern with liberal professionals and independent workers who are not involved in this bench, by the bench of the Liberal Initiative. To give an example, Mr Secretary of State, the retention in the source that is made today to liberal professionals is worth 25 %. This is the retention in the source that is made. A dependent worker, Mr Secretary of State, as you will know — in the case of two holders, married, with two children — to have a withholding tax of 25 % must have an income in the order of 5000 €, more than 5000 € gross per month. Therefore, liberal professionals and self-employed workers are ill-treated in Portugal. There is an asphyxiation of costs, bureaucracy, a whole context that prevents people from having the ability to risk, to form their own jobs. We are always talking about the need to reduce emigration, not lose the most qualified people. And being an independent worker, generating your own employment, is also a way of fixing people in national territory, not losing all the human capital that we are losing significantly in recent years and also with the PS governments, especially with the PS governments. Therefore, the Liberal Initiative presents five proposals, which are simple proposals: retention in the reduced source; reduction of contributions to social security; recovery of a simplified regime that lowers the bureaucracy that is imposed on liberal professionals and independent workers; exemption from increased exemption thresholds when there is accumulation between dependent work and self-employment, because often when people want to risk and have a new activity, they need a time when they accumulate dependent work with self-employment; and, above all, an increase in the threshold of VAT exemption for liberal professionals and self-employed workers. These are five simple measures, which are a sign, because we need a society with initiative, with freedom and a desire to risk, and the signs that we are giving to everyone in general, but also to liberal professionals and independent workers, are wrong signs, because we are limiting the risk, the will to earn life, to succeed. We need success in Portugal, we want more success and we want to reward success in Portugal. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u400	Mr Carlos Brás, from the PS, is still speaking.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u401	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, if we step back a few months in our memory and enter into the debates of the State Budget for 2022, either that which has been plunged here by the negative coalition formed, whatever was already approved by this majority in May, I am sure that the most repeated expression was « tax burden », adjectived then of the most diverse and fearful forms.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u402	Oh, is it? Oh, my
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u403	But I am pleased to note that the oppositions have noticed that they were working on a conceptual error and have stopped using that expression. What is true is that we have been witnessing progressive tax cuts over the past few years and at the same time increasing tax revenue. But this is no paradox, it is even the result of greater dynamics of the economy, more employment and greater efficiency of the Tax Authority ( AT ). This reality, moreover, reflects the work of the Tax Authority in promoting voluntary compliance, but also greater efficiency in coercive collection. However, this Government and this Parliamentary Bank do not cease to pursue this course of combating fraud, tax evasion, aggressive tax planning, economic-financial crime and money laundering, but also do not cease to improve the working conditions of the Tributary Authority professionals in 2023, in particular with regard to human resources qualification, ending the ongoing competitive procedures, consolidating inter-rail mobility and opening new specific competitions. thus, the State Budget for 2023, in its improved version by the Parliamentary Group of the PS, proposes an extension of the incidence of IRS under category G - Plus-values, the taxation of transactions with cryptoactives, considering itself as income of capital.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u404	Legalization of cryptoactives!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u405	At the headquarters of IMT (municipal tax on expensive transmissions of real estate), amendments are made to combat the harmful effects of the abuse of the technical exchanges of real property. It is also proposed, as a deadline, 30 April of each year for the obligation to report financial institutions to the Tax Authority and to amend the General Tax Law by extending the access of the Tax and Customs Authority to the Central Registry of the Effective Beneficiary for the purpose of tax inspection. It is therefore, in these terms, a budget focused on justice and fiscal equity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u406	Mrs. Carla Madureira of the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u407	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in this State budget for 2023, and in two specific cases wishing to reduce the value of the IRS, the PSD presented two distinct but equally attentive proposals, given the relevance of each of them. A proposal is aimed at people with disabilities. Although the possibility of persons with disabilities over the age of 18 years and with a degree of disability equal to or greater than 60 % is expected to be able to access an autonomous credit scheme for subsidised housing, it is important to look at all those who are doing retraining work in their housing without however resorting to bank credit. In order to remedy this gap, the PSD proposes that it be deductible to collect the amount corresponding to 30 % of the value borne by the disabled person, or their family aggregate, in respect of expenditure on requalification works in its own permanent housing, acquired without recourse to credit, up to the overall limit of €800. Another proposal is to encourage and encourage citizens to read periodical publications as a way to strengthen democracy. The various problems affecting the Portuguese press sector are known. The Government continues to choose to blow to the side, not having a single measure in this budget to deal with this problem and to be able to overcome the vicissitudes that the media have been facing. The PSD, on the contrary, acts. The PSD considers that it is necessary, that it is urgent to contribute to strengthening the national press and therefore intends that it is deductible to collect the acquisition of signatures of periodical publications, including signatures and digital publications, up to a maximum of €150. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u408	Again, Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, Antonio Mendes, has the floor if you wish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u409	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Carla Madureira, allow me to begin by starting with the last topic which puts — that of the possibility of deducting magazines and newspapers in terms of IRS — which is, in fact, a subject which, over the last few years I have been in office, has been repeated several times. I can even say that the parliamentary group that supports the government is very vocal on this subject too. It's, in fact, transversal. What's the problem with not accessing? It's not because we're against it, it's really because of a technical impossibility that we can do this. Why? The e-Fatura deduction system works on the basis of information from the EACs ( Economic Activity Code ). Why? Because the bill description is something whose access is prevented from AT. In fact, the National Data Protection Commission, when it gave green light to the e-Fature project, was specifically with an encryption of all that is relevant information of the invoice. Therefore, in an invoice, we cannot identify which article is actually sold. There was even a subject on education expenses for a long time that had to do with buying a book in a hypermarket or with buying it in a bookstore, exactly for that reason. In other words, we cannot distinguish, within a stationery, what is sold as a newspaper and what is not sold as a newspaper. Now, what I would like to leave you is the availability of the Government and now I thank you very much for the question you have put, because it also allows publicly to say what I have already said several times in many meetings, not only to the PS Parliamentary Group, but also to many areas in the field of social communication, which you have to realize if there is any other idea that can technically or operationally enable this measure, because we, truly, have not managed to have it. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, our willingness to find a solution in this Parliament in the near future exists. We cannot follow this proposal in concrete terms, not because we do not agree, but because we cannot implement it in practical terms. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the subject which Mrs Marcia Passos has put on by Mrs Marcia Passos, I would like to tell you that since 2018 we have a very important measure in terms of renting and, in particular, renting for permanent own housing, which is the differentiation of the tax rate depending on the duration of contracts. [[IL protests.]] In fact, the norm was adopted in a context where there was not even an absolute majority in Parliament and I even remember that the Government's proposal was changed to start considering long-term leases not the five years that were initially proposed but the two years. So when I get 20 years old—I'm saying color, but I think it's 20 years old—the tax rate falls to 14 %. This differentiation, Mrs Deputy, exists with regard to the long-term lease. Mr Rui Rocha, we also defend the self-employed,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u410	Do we defend?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u411	...but the priority that the Liberal Initiative defends is really different from the priority that the government has given. It's not exclusive, but priority is different. Mr President, I am going to give you an example: we started by the poorest independent workers and that is why in 2018 we extended the minimum of existence for these independent workers. The independent workers, before, did not have the protection of the minimum of existence that existed. Since the independent workers did not have the protection of impermenability of some of their incomes, it made those who had incomes of work have the protection of the minimum of existence and the independent worker did not have.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u412	25 % retention in source!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u413	That was our priority, which is maintained, Mr President. And it remains - precisely because we are very available - indeed, the parliamentary work we have done with the Single Member of the Free has been to revise the limit of VAT exemption - to work on those with the lowest incomes. Don't have the slightest doubt about that, Mr. I would also like to convey to you the following about the retentions in the source: the honourable Member is quite right about the fact that the withholdings in the source of self-employed workers are at a fixed rate and that we have to change that system.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u414	I know!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u415	That is why, Mr President, in the State budget, it is planned to change the system of retention at source for dependent work, for pensions — in fact, it will come into force in the coming year, with a rate regime that is not fixed but marginal — and for self-employed workers, which takes longer, so that we can find a mechanism in which taxation at source follows the annual evolution of self-employed income. Mr President, I share your concern and I want to assure you that we are working on this. Our priority was the retention system at the source of dependent work and we are now working to reform the retention system at the source of independent work during the legislature. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, I make one last very important comment on the cryptoactives, since several of you and Mrs. Members here have referred to this subject. We cannot look at the world black and white, we must look at the world with the reality that exists.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u416	Clear us, Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u417	What this State Budget faces is the following: at the moment, there is no tax framework for the taxation of the cryptoactives and this State Budget is taxing the cryptoactives, whether they result from business activity or through transactions, and creates reporting obligations for intermediaries and operators to the Tax Authority and the Banco de Portugal. That's why, sirs. Members, we are available to improve this model, a model relating to an innovative reality, but our tax regime is not unprecedented in Europe, comparing well with that of countries like Germany. In addition, Mrs Mariana Mortágua asked us for the study that founded the Government's bill, she had access to this study and I think that, by careful reading, she will see that this is a very balanced proposal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from Members of the CFP and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u418	Mr Vera Braz from the PS has the floor. [[Pause.]] It's only if you want to.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u419	All right. So we're going over to Mr Rui Cruz from the PSD. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u420	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, as if the gross increases in the cost of the response of elderly households and long-term units of the National Continuing Care Network were not enough, and this is the real reason why so many elderly people and families are looking for solutions in the follow-up of older people and in the use of the status of the informal Caregiver, it is not clear, nor is it understood, that the possibility is denied to deduct charges relating to domestic employees providing assistance to these informal caregivers in support of their dependent families, until they defend the primacy of non-institutionalization early and because the same is already done when they are spending on household placement and support costs to dependent people. It is for the purpose of eliminating this discrimination and the replacement of some justice and fiscal fairness that the amendment to Article 84 is imposed. the IRS Code, as provided for in Article 151. the State Budget, as proposed by the PSD. [[PSD applause.]] [[In the meantime, he took the presidency of Vice-President Adam Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u421	I begin by congratulating the honourable Members. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We move on to Article 152. the proposal for a law — Addition to the Tax Code on the Income of Single Persons, having the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Alexandre Poço.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u422	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, in this State budget, the PSD presents the most ambitious proposal that there is memory of what young people pay for IRS taxes. We all know well the difficulties a young person in our country has at the beginning of his life and, therefore, more than discount programs or seeking a regime that always excludes someone, the PSD presents, very clearly but also very ambitiously, a proposal by IRS that, until age 35, the maximum rate paid by a young person in Portugal will be 15% of IRS. Without half measures, without applications, without the possibility of starting to work and, as the years go by, the ability to discount less and less.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u423	What about the single fee?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u424	The challenge we make to the PS, but also to the government, is to ensure that our country can have an opportunity here, with the creation of a tax regime itself for the new generations, to do what we all want it to begin to characterize our country — a country with ambition, a country with reformist will and, above all, a country that does not accept that our new generations continue to look at our country as a route of dismissal of their talent, merit and effort. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u425	Article 159 is followed. the proposal for a law — Amendment to the Code of the Tax on the Income of Collective Persons. There are several ladies and gentlemen. Members appointed to intervene, the first being Mrs Isura Morais, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u426	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the tax burden of families and businesses needs to be reduced. In the case of companies, it is important and imperative to reduce IRC. It must be a priority to increase the competitiveness of Portuguese companies by reducing the IRC rate by 2023 from 21 % to 19 %. This reduction in many companies is essential to enable them to survive. Others will allow for increased investment capacity and maintain and increase jobs. in other words, it will increase international competitiveness vis-à-vis its direct competitors. We also propose the application of the rate of 17 % to the first €100 000 of material collected to enterprises qualified as small and medium-sized enterprises. In a time of post-pandamy, economic crisis and high international instability, it is essential to ensure the survival of Portuguese business fabric, as well as the maintenance of their jobs. If families and businesses are actually at the heart of our decisions, these proposals will be approved. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u427	Mr Duarte Alves has the floor for an intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u428	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, in IRC, this budget proposal has little or nothing for most micro-enterprises and more tax bills for large economic groups. This is the tax policy of the PS, guaranteed by the agreement signed by the employers'representatives and which the right only criticises because it still wants more — more benefits, more privileges, more burdens, so that large companies, if possible, do not pay a tax tort in Portugal, while the majority of the population continues to bear the bulk of what is tax revenue. Apparently, the Government wants it to continue so, because what Mr State Secretary recently replied to me, concerning the specific deduction, confirms what I said: what the Government proposes applies only to the minimum of existence, but all incomes above €760, which was the number that the Secretary of State reported, are not benefited by this measure and continue to be penalized by the non-upgradation of this specific deduction for more than 12 years, and by accumulated inflation throughout these years, which has already gone up to 20 %. We will therefore vote against the fiscal bill that this budget offers to large companies, in particular against the jackpot that represents the end of any deadline for the reporting of tax damages, since it goes far beyond the PSD/CDS government of the time of troika in the privileges to the great capital, and the government does not even respond to the costs of public coffers. On the other hand, when it comes to non-standard residents, these costs represent almost EUR 1 billion per year, but these are apparently not the government's concern.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u429	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u430	Alternatively, we submit proposals to end tax exemptions and thus ensure that the profits made in Portugal are taxed in the country, to increase the progressiveity of IRC, appropriately taxing millionaire profits and, at the same time, reducing IRC for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. We propose a tax on extraordinary gains more comprehensive than that which has been presented by the government for days and which excludes sectors such as energy, electricity, banking and insurance. We also propose measures to support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in the context of autonomous taxation. As the Secretary of State knows, there are many companies that do not even have enough profits to be able to pay for IRC — therefore, all the measures to reduce IRC do not reach them — but pay autonomous taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u431	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u432	Therefore, the CFP proposals are aimed at reducing, not only the non-increase, autonomous taxes on micro-enterprises, but also a measure that reaches those companies that need the most and which are the majority of our country's business fabric. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u433	For the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u434	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members: We are going for the second year in which big companies are making extraordinary profits, millionaire profits that the government has denied, at least until it is required by the European Commission to create a fee. We'll see what the effectiveness of that fee will be. What is certain is that this measure is not in the State budget, but there is another one. This is a tax bill for large companies, with few precedents in Portugal. The Socialist Party Government broke the understanding it had in 2015 when it reduced the deadline for reporting tax damages and resolved to go further than the troika and the agreement between José Seguro, PSD and CDS — Passos Coelho and Paulo Portas. Now, it allows the deduction of tax damages unlimitedly. We ask who this measure is for, because small and medium-sized enterprises have already said it was not for them. We therefore ask the Government to explain to us why it has decided to give a tax gift to the largest companies, knowing that the sectors that will benefit most from this measure are precisely the bank and a TAP, that the government wants to privatize, benefiting its future buyer as they now approve. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u435	For an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Sérgio Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u436	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in an outermost region, fiscal competitiveness is an essential means of creating conditions for economic and social progress; it is an instrument that helps to mitigate the competitive disadvantages resulting from the outermost condition, competitive disadvantages that persist even within an increasingly digital economy. Strengthening the fiscal competitiveness of our outermost regions is a national imperative. It is in this context that our proposal is inserted, which aims to make more attractive the tax regime applicable to groups of business companies that have effective headquarters and direction in the autonomous regions, allowing that the option by the special taxation scheme of companies groups does not imply the waiver of the most favourable IRC rate in each region. This creates better conditions for the establishment of economic and consequent job creation activities and encourages the development of entrepreneurship and the formation of more groups of companies. In short, it strengthens the economic and social fabric. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u437	For an intervention by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vera Braz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u438	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the growth of the Portuguese economy has been assumed as a priority and commitment by the governments of the Socialist Party with evidence of success since 2016, in the face of successive increases above the European Union average. This only demonstrates the right choice that has existed in the adoption of public policies that potentiate and enable this same growth. The resilience of Portuguese business fabric is a central point and an unequivocal contribution to this same growth. It has therefore been in each State budget that tax options have been adopted that favour the business environment, but in a fair and balanced way, without any advance, that promote investment and stimulate the country's productivity and competitiveness. The challenge of the capitalisation of national companies is one of the most important challenges in the context of Portuguese business fabric and, fortunately, again, the numbers show that the most correct policies have been adopted. We have the financial autonomy levels of our companies to grow and achieve record values, thus providing them with the capacity needed to grow in a robust way, so as to resume and develop their operational activity. This is the way we should and we want to pursue, and therefore in this State budget we have a new incentive to capitalisation of companies: a tax benefit, a deduction in the IRS over a decade, allowing to end a distortion between a favour by companies that resort to bank financing to the detriment of those in which there is a direct capital placement by their partners. The Socialist Party makes its contribution to this measure, guaranteeing and promoting the stability of companies' capitals: it incorporates specific anti-abuse measures aimed at ensuring the effectiveness of the tax, and allows the total collection of taxable persons to be deducted. We believe that the growth, expansion and consolidation of our companies must be made in a sustainable and resilient way, which will ensure, with stability, trust and the characteristic commitment of this Budget, the future of our companies, the growth and competitiveness of the country, as well as the well-being and quality of life of the Portuguese. Yes, because this government and the Socialist Party have even families at the heart of their action. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u439	You now have the floor by the Government, the Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u440	I am very grateful, Mr President, but who will intervene is the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u441	I am sorry, Mrs Minister, that I have called you for this intervention, but I had this indication. That is how Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u442	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the IRC chapter, but in any case, as Mr Duarte Alves put a topic of IRS, let me need it if it wasn't me that I was clear. The increase in the specific deduction we make, from €4104 to €8600, is for those who earn €760 per month. This increase is then retroactive up to 1000 €, which means that the yield range between 760 € and 1000 € per month has a very substantial increase in the specific deduction.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u443	Well, it took a long time to pull that off!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u444	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go to the IRC topics you put here. We have consistently, over the past seven years, reduced the tax effort of companies, and I fear that we have done so in a very targeted way, transversal to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and in relation to some objectives that are important to our business fabric. The most important measure we have taken to reduce the taxation of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises was the extinction of the special payment on account, which had already been claimed for many years. We have succeeded in doing so with a progressive but sure trajectory, which allowed this final extinction in the State budget for 2022, which is in force.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u445	Tell that to the IL!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u446	I also want to say that it is quite relevant that you are. Members of the Communist Party's Parliamentary Group think if what we want is a business fabric that has no results to pay for IRC. In other words, consider whether there can be a company that, over time, always has a negative result and therefore does not pay taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u447	Pay the salary of the management partners!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u448	As we have repeatedly conveyed to you, it is because it is not normal for a company, in its life cycle, to harm every year that then there are anti-abuse rules such as the worsening of the tax losses of autonomous taxes, in the case of damages. That is why when the Communist Party dedemns measures to reduce the IRC rate to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, what the PCP Member is saying is "that does not benefit because companies do not have fiscal results". I believe, Mr President, that this should make us wonder why a company over the years does not have any tax results. [[Protests by PCP Member Duarte Alves.]] Mr President, I would also like to say the following: you said that the IRC measures are based on an agreement with the employers' groups...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u449	Employers!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u450	Yes, with the employers' representatives. Let me correct you, Mr Member, because since the time of the greeting Dr. Salgado Zenha that there is no union unity and that the UGT (General Workers' Union) is a confederation that represents the workers, who signed the agreement. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PCP members Bruno Dias and Duarte Alves.]] And this agreement is also good for the competitiveness of our companies because it values those who bet on their capitalisation, because of the new instrument we introduced and which replaces DLRR (Deduction by Restraint and Reinvested Works) and the Conventional Remuneration of Social Capital. Yes, the reformulation and simplification of the rules on tax damages are important for the capitalisation of small and medium-sized enterprises,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u451	They're nothing! They say they're not!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u452	... because, as the Government has been saying, we are working with the Accounting Standards Committee to ensure that these losses can also be recorded in the asset, so that these companies can be better capitalised and thus have better access to both European funds and the financial market.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u453	There are no assets, they invent themselves!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u454	That is why reducing the reform of tax losses to some of the large companies against small businesses is a mistification that makes no sense.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u455	You've already done it with the banks!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u456	Nor does it make any sense to Mrs Mariana Mortágua, who knows the banking system so well, to say that this reformulation of tax damages will favour the bank when she knows that it is also planned in the proposal that you have entered — so that it is absolutely clear — that, whenever the banks that were in the RIAD (Register of Institutions and Affiliates Data) have benefited from tax credit, of course, tax damages cannot be counted twice.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u457	And...? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u458	Moreover, Mrs Deputy, Germany, France, Spain and Belgium, none of these countries has time to report tax damages.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u459	They were no longer in 2015!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u460	But further, Mrs Deputies, they have no deadline for reporting nor do they have any limitation on the deduction to be collected either in Germany, up to EUR 1 million, either in France, up to EUR 1 million, either in Spain, up to EUR 1 million, or in Belgium, up to EUR 1 million. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] The honourable Member is striving to present this measure as an extravagance.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u461	It's true, too!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u462	Madam Member, what was an extravagance was the way we had the tax damage regime, in which each year it had its own regime. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] What we are doing is simplification, so that the tax administration concentrates on the quality of what is tax damage and its qualification and is not with an exercise that was already absolutely complex and that we intend to withdraw. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD, being opposed, always seeks to present measures that go beyond what the government proposes. I understand! We propose that the special IRC rate extends from €25 000 to €50 000 and the PSD proposes the €100 000 — it may be that one day, when they arrive to the government, they may in practice do what they have not done in the past. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u463	You broke the last deal!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u464	Let's move on to Article 164. o — Extraordinary system of support for charges incurred in agricultural production. To speak on this subject by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Artur Sovereign Andrade has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u465	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. State Secretaries, Dear Members, the agricultural and wine sector, more specifically, are experiencing gross difficulties due to inflation and rising prices, hence it is a measure very positively assessed the increase of the costs with the production factors by 40 %. It is unfortunate that the list of expected production factors is very short, so the PSD proposes and hopes that the inclusion of glass bottles will be approved to benefit from this increase. I draw attention to the fact that there is here a kind of "lux soap effect" working on the contrary, that is, this soap was used by 9 in every 10 movie stars and the measures for the agricultural sector that need to be repaired are 9 in every 10. I hope this repair passes. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u466	We now move on to proposal 976 - C of the PSD to add Article 166. a-A — Amendment to the Value Added Tax Code. To speak, Mr Afonso Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u467	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Minister of State, there are some assurances that the Portuguese already have in this discussion of the State budget. The certainty is the same as they initially had in the discussion: it is a budget of impoverishment, of real income loss and with a brutal tax burden on Portuguese. These are unforgettable facts. We are aware that it is not possible to solve this State budget, but it is possible to improve it with the proposals we have made. We have therefore tabled six amendments to VAT. I am referring to three, immediately, which are very simple: the proposal for a reduction of VAT, for the reduced rate, for the public lighting of municipalities, which would clearly benefit municipalities and is a clear support to the populations; the proposal for a reduction of VAT, for the reduced rate, for the undertakings of local associations and clubs — to support associations seems very sensible to me too; and the proposal for a reduction of costs in context, with the presentation of periodic VAT declarations, which implies a reduction of costs for businesses, people and municipalities. They seem very sensible to me, and I have referred to three, but there are three more who reduce these costs in context. They are fair proposals, which help companies and municipalities. They now have the opportunity of the Socialist Party and the Government to take one of two options, which define their political priorities: either they have a constructive attitude to improve the lives of Portuguese people or they apply their parliamentary majority, which has already been noticed in the last few days, and they lead all the proposals. What we hope is that there will be a very careful attitude on the part of the Socialist Party and the Government towards sensible proposals that will improve the lives of Portuguese people, so that they will be approved by the Socialist Party, which is the only party that can approve proposals in this House. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u468	For an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group on proposal 1294 - C to add Article 166. o -A — Amendment to the code of value added tax, Mr Hugo Carvalho has the floor. [[Pause.]] Excuse me, Mr Hugo Maravilha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u469	Mr. President, other members of the Government, Mr. and Mr. Members, the IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity) are facing enormous difficulties, especially in the face of a substantial increase in the price of food and energy costs. However, the State budget has forgotten the current and actual difficulties of the IPSS. The PSD is very concerned about the future of the IPSS and, in this sense, has a set of proposals that, being approved, can help mitigate their financial situation. These are: the exemption from VAT on the purchase of food goods intended for the supply of food by the IPSS ; the reduction of the VAT rate on construction, conservation and repair of buildings relating to works intended for the IPSS ; the increase in opportunities for the solidarity social sector to promote applications to the various PRR programmes. The approval of this set of proposals will reduce the burdens of the IPSS and enhance its sustainability. Their non-approval will be a clear and unequivocal sign that the IPSS is not a priority of the Socialist Party. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u470	Thank you very much, Mr Hugo Maravilha, begging you for my regret, absolutely involuntary and irreparable. We now move on to the discussion of Article 167. o — Transfer of value added tax to the development of regional tourism, of the proposed law. At least four Members have signed up. Members to speak on this matter, the first being by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Ricardo Pinheiro. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u471	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Secretary of State, Mr. Members, electricity was, or is possibly the most widely used source of energy in domestic consumption in Portugal. in a difficult period where governance is to adapt quickly to what is happening in the European area, it was necessary to introduce a set of policy measures that would mitigate the increase in electricity in the European area itself. I speak of more than EUR 165 million in energy efficiency in the projects of residential buildings, more than EUR 3000 million in reducing gas bills and electricity from Portuguese. I also speak of the reduction in VAT to 6 %, a measure of more than EUR 90 million that has benefited 5 million from Portuguese; the transition to the regulated market for natural gas consumers, which is intended to benefit more than 1, 3 million consumers, a measure worth EUR 60 million; or the 10 € supply support for the most deprived families in Portugal. To govern is also to respond quickly and minimize the negative impacts on the lives of Portuguese. Biomass and coal represent 36 % of energy use in Portugal's homes. Today the Socialist Party presents a proposal aimed at reducing to 6 % VAT on equipment and fuels that feed these equipment, biomass and briquettes, thereby reducing energy consumption by more than 455 000 households in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u472	What about CO2?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u473	But in fact, when we compress, there is also the exercise of decompression and, when it approves a PSD resolution project which aims to increase and maximize the use of treated waters in Portugal, the Socialist Party approves. When we also compressed down, and the Socialist Party adopted a draft resolution on the strengthening of aquifers in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u474	And that's bad? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u475	When we also compress ourselves, and we approve a PSD program to improve the use of rainwater in Portugal. In fact, ruling is really this,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u476	Rule is unpacking!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u477	... is to minimize negative impacts on families and Portuguese. Maximising and reaching 455 000 Portuguese by reducing VAT on briquettes, peddlers and their equipment is helping Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u478	What about CO2?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u479	Mr Filipe Melo has the floor for an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u480	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to begin by saying that it is with some pleasure that I see you referring to a principle of agreement, to a discussion of proposals with the Free, a party that defends four days of work per week. I think we're on the right track!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u481	It was lunch and everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u482	Honestly, I believe that for someone who defends four days of work a week, not even here in the debate is a contradiction. But go on like this because they're on the right track! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr Secretary of State, I am going to speak to you on a subject which I think is sensitive, which has to do with the difficulties that small, micro and medium-sized enterprises are currently experiencing. With the unbridled rise in the price of fuels, with the exorbitant energy prices these companies survive. They don't live, they don't create wealth, they don't improve wages, they survive. And then the Socialist Party, who say it is against inequalities, in article 21. the VAT code speaks in exclusion. It's true, it speaks in exclusion! It excludes some companies from having access to the deduction of VAT on fuels.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u483	Exactly! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u484	I refer to freight and passenger carriers up to 3500 kg. Because these companies, which in time of the pandemic served—and much! — are the Portuguese people, who could not leave their homes, taking goods and services to these same Portuguese people, excluded? Why can't they deduct fuel from VAT? These are questions that need to be asked. These companies should be helped! The business fabric needs to be helped and not discriminated against. Why are these companies, whose means of transport are often used to enter small streets in the historic centres of Lisbon or Porto, or even within the country, where large freight transport cars do not reach, do not have access, are discriminated against? You know we're right when we defend this.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u485	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u486	So, Mr. Secretary of State, call on your bench to approve the principle of non-exclusion, the principle of equality for those who want to serve the Portuguese. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u487	For an intervention, also on this article, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u488	Mr President, it is not about this article, it is about proposal 671 - C. Therefore, it is about the addition of Article 167. o -A. — Amendment to List I annexed to the VAT Code.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u489	All right, that's how it will be, Mrs. Deputy. So I now call on the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Jorge Botelho, to intervene on proposal 1331 - C to add an article 167. o -A — Amendment to List I annexed to the Value Added Tax Code.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u490	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Members: The conservation sector is a historically important sector in Portugal and also today. What we are concerned about in this amendment is the competitiveness factors that this sector faces. This sector has already shown that it is resilient, particularly during the crisis of the cod, which has not yet been completed, creating jobs and being a highly export sector. being a highly export sector, wealth-creating and employment-creating, of course, must have all the conditions to be competitive. A factor for competitiveness is the proposal that we have submitted for the application of the reduced rate of VAT to fish stocks, but also — and this is the proposal for a change — of the reduction of the rate of VAT to 6 % of fish preserved, where the fish component is 50 % and a reduced rate of VAT to be applied to shellfish preserved. This proposal will allow the harmonization and harmonization of tax taxation to the conservation sector and end discrimination in the conservation sector in relation to the fish species with which the sector works. We want, with this proposal, to promote motivation, productivity, investment and, of course, also the competitiveness of companies, which is something that this bank is interested in — and very much! — because they are factors of national wealth production, promoting exports and creating and maintaining existing jobs. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u491	With regard to proposal 671 - C of the Czech Republic to add Article 167. o -A. — Amendment to List I annexed to the VAT Code, I have the indication that Mrs PAN, Inês de Sousa Real, wishes to intervene. That's it, isn't it?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u492	That's right.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u493	We're not wrong now, it's really right. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u494	Now, Mr President, despite the other issues, we deserve the greatest relevance. We cannot fail to point out that it is indeed very strange that in the middle of the 21st century, if we are to form a coalition between the PSD, the PCP and the Arrival to try again to lower the VAT of tourists,... [[Ole!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u495	... contravention of a civilizational advance by this House of Democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u496	You don't like not eating!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u497	How do you come here to ask for an absolutely anachronistic activity, which consists of animal abuse, to have reduced VAT when families are experiencing difficulties at the moment? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u498	To approve sharks and rays is that it was an important cause!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u499	The bread has an absolutely suffocating price increase and the priority of these parties is to come discuss toast to this House! [[Sharks, stripes... and the bivalves?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u500	Moreover, they want to continue giving tax stamps to tourists, they want to continue to benefit, such as the tax exemption from the Small Field, which is EUR 12 million a year, for an activity that should not even have a place in our democracy. Your priority is once again to benefit from this sector. Make it clear, within this Chamber, who is on the right side of history. Certainly, it is not this coalition that was formed here. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u501	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u502	I will finish, Mr. President. But I am very surprised that the CFP, which both defends the rights of workers, has no sensitivity to the protection and welfare of animals — which are in fact completely damaged — and that it withdraws resources from the State to defend the reduction of VAT to the Tauromachy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u503	I inform Mrs Inês de Sousa Real that you have wasted your time in this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u504	Now shut up forever!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u505	Let's see if I shut up!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u506	The Bureau now has the information that Mr Pedro Pinto's Member of the Parliamentary Group wants to intervene on this point, at once We understand correctly, Mr Pinto?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u507	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u508	So, sir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u509	Mr President, it is very, very fast, not to give much protagonist to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, because she already knows that she has only protagonist when she talks about bull machia. [[Protests of the PAN MP, Inês de Sousa Real.]] Yesterday, a proposal was adopted in this House on sharks and rails. Certainly, this was important to solve the problems of poverty in Portugal! [[Well, well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u510	That was really important! It's just to say that the honourable Member has the mania to always say the same lie and when a lie is said often, sometimes people may think it's true, but it's not. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u511	The Small Field is free from IMI because it is owned by Casa Pia, it is a classified building and therefore does not pay IMI. That's why, Mrs. Deputy. That's the great truth. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The commercial center pays IMI, which does not pay IMI is the Plaza de Touros do Campo Pequeno, because it is a historical heritage and not because it is a bull market. Learn, Mrs. Member! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u512	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real signaled to the Bureau for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u513	Mr President, it is to make an appeal to the Bureau. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u514	Madam Member, for an appeal to the Bureau, because we do not have time to find other solutions, I give you the floor on an exceptional basis.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u515	Exceptional, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u516	Are there any exceptionalities? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u517	Mr President, very briefly, just because Mr Pedro Pinto said that the NAP had lied about what he said,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u518	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u519	... I will arrive at the building chair of the Plaza de Touros do Campo Pequeno, where it specifically refers that the sand has a tax benefit, in this case, of the exemption of 9 million euros, and that for the square, in its entirety, it is of 12 million euros...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u520	Mrs. Deputy, we've got your point.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u521	Just to conclude, Mr President, the same is being done for this activity.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u522	Mrs Deputy, we are then waiting for you to bring to the Bureau the small field building chair, so that we can distribute it to the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. I suppose Mr Pedro Pinto would also like to use the floor under the same regiment figure as the Bureau. I don't know if she's got her addial notebook or if she hasn't arrived yet... [[CH's laughs.]] ...then tell us. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u523	Mr. President, I did not get the predimental chair, but I'm going to tell Mrs. Deputy the following again, because I think she did not realize what I said: the Small Field Tour Square is exempt from IMI because it is a public institute, because it is owned by Casa Pia de Lisboa and because it is a property of cultural heritage. Mrs. Member, I've already told you 30 times, 40 times! [[Protests of the PAN MP, Inês de Sousa Real.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u524	All right, it's the clear question and we'll wait for the arrival of the predimental notebook to take away all the misconceptions that have appeared on this matter. Mrs. Members, if I may turn to BE's proposal 790 - C, which adds to the bill an article 167. o -A — Add to List I annexed to the Value Added Tax Code. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for a speech by the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u525	Mr President, the increase in the cost of living is inevitable, the loss of purchasing power of families is a fact and this State budget exacerbates that loss of purchasing power. One of the ways in which we will see this will be in the next winter, with the increase of energy poverty and with more families making it even more difficult for that statistics, which shames the country, to be one of the countries of Europe where energy poverty is the most marked by winters. There are several ways to respond to this problem, but there is one that is indisputable, to lower the VAT of electricity. It is just this sensible proposal that we make, a proposal that, due to political stubbornness, the government not only does not meet as an excuse to fail to comply. People don't understand, people demand this measure, and the Left Block proposed it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u526	We now turn to proposal 1074 - C of the Free, adding an article 167. o-K — Amendment to the Value Added Tax Code. To speak on this matter, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u527	Mr President, the life of self-employed workers in Portugal, of so-called 'green receipts', is a bureaucratic and fiscal nightmare, to a large extent because they cannot concentrate on what their vocation, their talents and their work and spend all the time needing to be their own jurists, their own accountants, their own tax collectors. This affects, in particular, those who have lower incomes and who have to deal with quarterly VAT declarations, often running risks of non-compliance because, having such low incomes, they end up creating very serious situations with the Tax Authority. It is important to look at these workers and to allow there to be a relief for those who earn less to have higher VAT exemption thresholds. It is essential that all so-called'milieurists' — it would be desirable to reach everyone who earns EUR 1000, liquid per month — do not have to worry about VAT. We know that this cannot be done overnight and, therefore, in the sense of a compromise, we propose that the exemption limit be increased next year up to this €1000 and that a path be taken, up to 2025, to reach the €15 000 VAT exemption threshold for self-employed workers. We believe that it is a measure that will ease, at least in part, this fiscal and bureaucratic nightmare in which it has become — or that it is already! — the lives of many independent workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u528	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now in Article 168. o — Amendment to the Code of Seal Tax of the bill. Mr Hugo Carvalho spoke for an intervention by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u529	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members, the exemption from seal tax for renegotiation contracts for housing credit is a fair, important and timely measure. It is appropriate because it gives negotiating strength to the way in which the government has decided to set up to deal with the European Central Bank's policy reversal, setting the maximum rates of effort that families are subject to bear in their housing contracts. But this measure is also fair. It is fair because it gives negotiating power to the weakest part, to the citizen, in the negotiating relationship with the banking entity, and giving strength to the weaker entity is also to ensure that the Portuguese State is next to those who, at the most demanding moment, need support to balance the relationship of negotiating forces between those on this side of the counter, the one who aspired in his dream to have their dwelling, and the one who is on the other hand, who proposes the financing of that same dream. Thirdly, this measure is important. It is important because it gives a clear political signal, a political signal that political decision-makers — the government, on the one hand, and these benches, or at least those that are associated with this proposal — are aware of what is also happening in the banking sector in the financial sector. It is an important sign for those who are out there, to know that the government acts preventively in access to housing, but that it will be available, if necessary, to go further in the future. This signal is very important for the future. For the banking sector, in the year 2021, the five main banks had EUR 1500 million of profits and in recent years banking commissions have increased by 50 %. The virtues of this proposal to exempt the seal tax are not only fair for what is already beneficial for citizens as well as for giving a clear and unequivocal political signal that political power is attentive to guaranteeing the payment of credit to housing by citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u530	We turn to Article 171. o — Amendment to the Code of Special Consumption Taxes, of the bill. For an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulo Ramalho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u531	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, agricultural cooperatives are a fundamental partner of farmers, either in access to production factors or in the flow of their productions, thus being a very important instrument in reducing the cost of the context of agricultural and livestock producers. We all know of the enormous difficulties this sector is experiencing at this time as a result of the escalation of the prices of production factors. The difficulties are not only in ensuring the sustainability of their farms, but also in the capacity to produce food at affordable prices on the market, and the farmer is increasingly the weakest link in this value chain, with an average of less than 25 % of the price at which their products are sold to the final consumer. The road gas oil increased between January 2021 and October 2022 by about 50 %. Thus, in order to reduce the cost of the context of agricultural and livestock producers, the PSD proposes, and hopes to be accompanied, that agricultural cooperatives may also benefit from the so-called "professional gas oil" of which the goods transport undertakings currently benefit from transport for and for agricultural holdings. I recall that, in the case of cooperatives linked to the dairy sector, the transport developed by them and for agricultural, livestock and producer stations is practically daily. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u532	Mrs. Members, we turn to proposal 1339 - C of the PS, adding an article 175. o -A — Amendment to the Code of Municipal Property Tax. For the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Miguel Cabrita will use the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u533	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we speak of taxation and taxation is also clear the difference between the government and the PS and the opposition, between the government and the PS and the right. We do not present mega-Romanian or unrealistic proposals, but we bring to this plenary important advances — in the IRS, with incomes; in the fight against escape and escape, in different instruments — and I will talk in particular about how we complement these advances within IMT and IMI. I am speaking in particular of two proposals, two important advances in regulating the real estate market and access to housing. Of course, with an important advance in the fight against escape and escape at IMT headquarters, I refer to the PS's proposal to end the exemption of IMT in the so-called "technical permutations", which in many cases are no more than to take illegitimate advantage of existing exemptions for permutations, setting true situations of simulation of permutations between different agents. It is time to put an end to this practice, it is time to make taxation more fair and transparent in the real estate market and real estate transactions, in particular, and time to fight escape and escape in this matter. But with regard to the real estate market and housing, we also bring a proposal at IMI headquarters, specifically directed to the large urban centres and municipalities defining urban pressure areas, so that, according to their concrete situation, they can aggravate the IMI allocated to local housing and so that they can also do so with the housing buildings not available for permanent housing or rent. It is a proposal to combat real estate pressure in the most difficult areas, from this point of view, a proposal to give more power and more instruments to municipalities and a proposal to stimulate renting to combat informality in this sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-11-23.u534	Thank you very much, Mr. Miguel Cabrita, you have the honour of having been the last speaker this morning. Thus, and not registering the Bureau any more, I announce that the agenda for tomorrow's plenary meeting on 24 November, beginning at 10 a.m. — as it has been customary — has the following three points: discussion of the rules avoked; voting of the rules avoked; and continuation of the discussion in the speciality of the State budget for 2023. to the Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and of the Members of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good afternoon and a good lunch. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 50 minutes.]]
