ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u1	Good afternoon to all and to all. Representatives of all parliamentary groups are present, so we have quorum and we can start the session. [[It was 15 hours and 1 minute.]] I welcome the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, the ladies and gentlemen. Journalists and also the Members. Representatives of the security forces, to whom I ask you to open the galleries. Before we get to the first point of our agenda, which are political statements, the honourable Members. Bureau Secretaries will report on a set of information. To begin with, you have the floor of Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u2	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, Lein's proposals 1, 2 and 4 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), lowering the latter to 5. the Commission, in connection with the others. The Lein Projects 1, 2 and 3 / XV / 1 also entered the Table. a ( PCP ), which fall to 10. the Commission, 5 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 6 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 7 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 3. the Commission, 8 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 9 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 10. the Commission, in connection with 1. a and 6. a Commission, 10, 11 and 12 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), down to 1. the Commission, 13 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission, 14 and 15 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which fall to 7. the Commission, 16 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 7. the Commission, and 17 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission. I ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to continue to account for the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u3	You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u4	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, the Lein. 22 and 23 / XV / 1 projects were also included in the Bureau. a ( CH ), down to 1. the Commission, 24 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 25 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 26 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 27 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 28 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 29 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 30 and 31 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), down to 13. the Commission, in connection with 9. the Commission, 33 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 34 and 35 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), down to 1. the Commission, 36 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission, in connection with 10. the Commission, 37 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 38 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 5. the Commission, and 39 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 12. the Commission. I ask Secretary Diogo Leon to continue to account for the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u5	Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u6	Mr. President and Mrs. Members also brought into the Bureau the Bills Nos 18 and 19 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which fall to 11. the Commission, 20 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 5. the Commission, and 21 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission. The Rules of Procedure Nos 1 / XV / 1 also entered the Bureau. a ( BE), 2 / XV / 1 a ( IL), 3 / XV / 1 a ( PAN) and 4 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), all down to 1. the Commission. The Resolution Projects Nos 2 / XV / 1 have also been added to the Table. a ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 3 and 4 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), down to 13. the Commission, 5 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 6 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which falls to 2. the Commission, 7 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission, and 8 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 6. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u7	Please continue, Secretary Helga Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u8	Mr. President and Mrs. Members have also entered the Bureau the draft resolutions 9 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 10 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 11 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 12 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 13 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 14 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 15 / 15 / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 6. the Commission, in connection with 4. the Commission, 16 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 17 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 19 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 20 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 5. the Commission, and 21 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 6. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u9	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Secretaries. Now, yes, we are in a position to move to the first item on the agenda. For a political statement, Mrs Berta Nunes of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members of Parliament : The Government of the Socialist Party programme, approved at the Assembly of the Republic on 8 April, contains an entire policy for territorial cohesion that needs to be emphasized. Territorial cohesion is one of the major challenges of the country in combating inequalities and in promoting sustainable and inclusive development. This four-year programme places cohesion as one of the major themes of this legislation and, in order to achieve it in this area, maintains the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion and the Secretary of State for Regional Development — before, State Secretary for the Valorization of the Interior — in Bragança. This is now an important and symbolic sign: important, because it maintains territorial cohesion as a consistent policy since the first Government of Antonio Costa, in which the Mission Unit was created for the Valorization of the Interior, and symbolic, because the Secretary of State, now with the name « of regional development», remains in the district of Bragança and shows that this government not only rules from the Land of Peace, but rules in proximity and from any point of the national territory. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Among the measures included in this chapter of territorial cohesion, I highlight the most important. First, the correction of regional asymmetries, not only between regions, but within the same region, giving priority to the most vulnerable territories without fail to bet on strengthening the medium cities. This is good news for small municipalities, so penalized in the Community framework that now ends, which has negatively discriminated against these most vulnerable councils in favour of strengthening support for medium-sized cities. It is necessary to find a balance that, without failing to support the strengthening of the medium-sized cities, supports the small municipalities that suffer the most from depopulation and the loss of economic fabric and services. Secondly, the Programme recognises the challenge of mobility within low-density regions and its connection to the country, proposing several policy measures to improve local and regional mobility, such as the demand transport adapted to the low-density territories, still placing on its link to the country by road and rail, and committing itself to the continuation of the reduction of the tolls in the inland highways, which were introduced at the time of the troika and which is important to remove. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Third: it also states as an unacceptable necessity the digital connectivity of the entire interior, ensuring broadband coverage, fixed and mobile, widespread to the whole population, including less populous villages. This is an essential factor of attractiveness and competitiveness for these territories, to attract new people working in mobility and innovative companies, in an environment of environmental quality and life. Fourth: to counter the depopulation of the interior, which is the main challenge of these territories, there are measures to attract investment, employment and people, ranging from the creation of an investment-friendly environment, reducing context costs, to the mobilization of support that is attractive enough to capture that investment. It is recognized the need to diversify and qualify the productive fabric of the interior, by continuing to bet on endogenous products, supporting their marketing and innovation as a means of valuing them. Fifth : another important policy axis is the enhancement of border regions, with the aim of transforming the entire cross-border region into a new centrality, by strengthening specific programmes within the Community framework, such as the POCEP ( Interreg-Portugal Cross-border Cooperation Programme ), as well as by strengthening cross-border links, which we already see happening in the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ), with the inclusion of the Braganza-Puebla link of Sanabria and the construction of the international bridges of Nice and Alcoutim. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Sixth : to ensure appropriate proximity services to these regions, not leaving people isolated in the villages or in the most peripheral villages and breaking the vicious circle "less people-less services-less people", which afflicted the interior with a wave of closures of public services at the time of the troika and the PSD government. This is also one of the objectives to be achieved. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u11	in this program, in the area of territorial cohesion, there are policies that I think are almost consensual. As Members of the Socialist Party, we welcome these central measures for a cohesive, sustainable and modern country and we will be here to support the Government in its implementation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u12	The honourable Member has four requests for clarification. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u13	Madam President, two to two.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u14	To make the first request for clarification, Mr Bruno Nunes, of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor of two minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Berta Nunes, I find it very interesting that your statement had not started by telling us that it was essentially symbolic. And that's right: it's still symbolic, a void in relation to a number of things that are, however, described in everything that is the Government's Programme. In fact, today we have Rui Moreira, President of the City Hall of Porto, and Carlos Moedas, President of the City Hall of Lisbon, assuming that this process of decentralization is a disgrace. The speaker posted a newspaper. It is simply that the municipal chambers and municipalities have received a financial package that does not fit with what is needed, but you continue to speak in a principle of walking towards what they want: regionalization. They assume once and for all that they want to disrespect popular will, when the referendum was clear in the 'no' to regionalisation. [[Congrats from the CH.]] You still say in the Government Programme that you want to create the possibility of making regional referendums. I can't figure out where they're coming from! This possibility is described in the Constitution, which VV. For example, they do not want to change Article 240. in addition, there was a review by 2020, which already provides for all these referendums. But when we talk about territorial cohesion, we also find it interesting that the PS proposal continues to open and create new NUTS ( nomenclature of territorial units for statistical purposes ), in particular Setúbal NUTS. Madam Member, we are at a time when, in the last days of the election campaign, the current Prime Minister said the candidacy was submitted.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u16	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u17	What's the new NUTS for Setúbal? Oh, my God! Propaganda, propaganda, propaganda! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u18	For a request for clarification, Mr Rui Rocha, of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u19	Mr President, first of all, I would like to welcome this new impetus for territorial cohesion of the PS. It is worth noting that Mrs Ana Abrunhosa, who was Minister of Cohesion and continues to be so, said just over four months ago that the Government of that time was the most centralist of democracy, and that was also recognised by the Prime Minister himself — the words of the Minister of that time. I therefore hope that this spirit corresponds to a PS's ability to influence this new intention of the government. It is also worth remembering that Portugal has a serious « imbalance » between what is local expenditure and what is total expenditure on GDP (gross domestic product) because local expenditure actually represents very little in relation to what is the European context. in this context, I would like to ask Mrs Berta Nunes what will be the role of the EUR 4 billion of the taxpayers who were invested in the TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ) in this new cohesion momentum, knowing that according to data from ANAC ( National Civil Aviation Agency ), the passenger traffic provided by TAP at the port airport corresponded to about 15 % and in Faro, 5 %. What, then, will be the role of the EUR 4 billion of taxpayers invested in the TAP in this territorial cohesion process? [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u20	In response to these two requests for clarification, Mrs Berta Nunes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u21	Madam President, with regard to what Mr Bruno Nunes said about the process of decentralisation, I would like to say that I was autonomous for 10 years in a small interior council — Customs of the Faith — and I was the first to join this process. It is clear that this is a process that has many potential to make our country more cohesive and better serve the people, but it is also true that it is an evolving process that needs a negotiation — which is taking place — between the municipalities and the government, so that the municipalities, by assuming their competences, do so with enough money to ensure that they are properly taken over and the services provided with quality. We've always said this since the beginning. This is a process that has been evolving and certainly now in a very particular context of inflation and rising energy costs, all this has to be considered. One thing is certain: municipalities only have the power to claim, negotiate and achieve a good decentralization package in order to have the necessary means if they work together. This is no longer the first time Mr. President of the Port Chamber has tried to « run on a single track», and I am very sorry. I have a lot of consideration and sympathy for Mr. President of the Port House — I myself am from the North — but, as a transmountain, I would not like to see the centralism of Lisbon replaced by the centralism of the Port. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is therefore very important that small and large municipalities, and, above all, people who manage large municipalities, which, for this reason, have a greater responsibility to cooperate and cooperate with the whole territory, do so, and do so in a humble way and together, not « running on their own track». Yes, we need to negotiate, we need to continue this negotiation process and create the conditions for the decentralization process to be able to succeed, which is what we want, because this is one of the most important instruments in my view for territorial cohesion. It is also proven that local power, in general, has always contributed in a very significant way to territorial cohesion. All municipal competences were implemented throughout the territory and today we have a country with water and sanitation, in addition to other issues, which were carried out in the same way throughout the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u22	In a few places!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u23	Well, this is thanks to the local power. Therefore, for local power, decentralizing is one of the major instruments for promoting territorial cohesion. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u24	What about regionalization?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u25	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u26	In conclusion, on regionalisation, I must say that a referendum is planned in 2024. Regionalization is not the magic wand that will solve all cohesion problems, but, if well done, if it is to avoid overlapping competences, if it organizes the way the territory is heard, regionalization can be a further value for territorial cohesion. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u27	I will inform the Members and the Members. Members of whom are present in the forum of the Diplomatic Corps, accompanied by the President of the Assembly of the Republic, Augusto Santos Silva, the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, Rumen Radev, and his delegation, who are on official visit to Portugal and to whom I would like a greeting from the House. [[General applause, stand up.]] For a request for clarification, Mrs Fatima Ramos of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u28	I would like to congratulate the President and the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Firstly, I congratulate Mrs Berta Nunes on bringing this plenary to this very important and urgent issue. I and my side have the conviction that if nothing is done, soon the interior will end up 'close', because we are in a country where almost 50 % of the population lives in two metropolitan areas. Last Sunday, we were in Pampilhosa da Serra, and what happens there is also in many other interior councils. It's a council that has very little population, and the one that's old. But there is no population, there are no public services and there are no companies, and therefore something needs to be done in fact. We still have another problem: if there is no population, there are fires, because we do not have forest guards. What we have seen in recent years is that Community funds, which could often be used to protect and defend the interior more, unfortunately, are largely used in metropolitan areas and, above all, on the coast. Mrs Deputy spoke, for example, in the Mission Unit for the Valorization of the Interior, which was much appreciated, and at the time it was installed in Pedrogão Grande — a good example. But I ask: does she still exist, is she still working? It is, in fact, that we have seen very little in practice. Following the 2017 fires, ForestGal was created to coordinate forest projects. They settled in Figueiró dos Vinhos, but it was only the headquarters, because as far as we know, the management itself is here in Lisbon. There are two or three employees, Mrs. Deputies. But more: for example, in the case of TAP, in the last three years, there have been losses of almost EUR 3000 million, and only in the last year we had losses of EUR 4, 3 million per day. Now, it is a company that serves Lisbon, serves the port bad, does not serve the islands and, of course, much less serves the interior.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u29	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u30	My question is this: in view of the fact that we are going to have a new budget, how many of this value is that the government plans to invest in the interior, to support the businesses of the interior and the people who want to live there? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u31	For a request for clarification, Mr João Dias, of the CFP Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Berta Nunes, allow me to take two points and raise two questions. The first consideration is this: correcting territorial inequalities requires much more than a distribution of scarce resources by a handful of unfair measures. In fact, as you said, many of them are only symbolic and do not translate into changing what really corrects and fights these territorial inequalities. A second consideration has to do with the diagnosis that the honourable Member has left us, which is part of a rather serious error. The honourable Member considers that the causes of territorial inequalities arise from the territories themselves and the people living there. No, ma'am! You confuse the consequences with the causes and, indeed, are the policies that have been implemented and the options that have been taken by successive governments that translate into the accentuation and worsening of territorial inequalities.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u34	So the first question that I put to you is this: how does the honourable Member want to fight territorial inequalities if she does not defend the breakdown with the policies that have been pursued, particularly with regard to the destruction of productive capacity? I am talking about agriculture, forests, livestock and industry, for which you have not spoken. Another issue for which he did not have a single word, and which is fundamental and decisive in combating territorial inequalities, has to do with the low wages, the loss of rights and the low wages of our Portuguese people, who are discussing themselves with quite large economic and social difficulties.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u36	Then, in addition to a policy for the abandonment of existing resources, we have other policies, particularly with regard to municipalisation, which you have defended, which are nothing more than burdening the municipalities in many areas which should be under the responsibility of the central administration. Investments in transport and mobility are needed, particularly in the railway, where thousands of kilometres have been lost, and in relation to the SCUT tolls (without user costs), it is even their abolition that is necessary, it is not their reduction, as you have argued here.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u37	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u38	That is why, Mrs Deputies, the second question I would like to ask you is whether you are with the CFP in the solutions that we are presenting, in particular with regard to the protection and preservation of public services. I'm talking about health, education,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u39	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u40	... in particular the reversal of loss of public services in the parish and loss of capacity in terms of wages in terms of employment. Finally, I would like to say that we need to bet on national production, replacing imports by national production, and in particular reindustrialisation, with industrial production in the territories where the raw material is produced. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u41	In reply, Mrs Berta Nunes has the floor, three minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u42	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank you for your questions. Ladies and gentlemen. Starting with Mrs Fatima Ramos of the PSD, I must say that the Mission Unit for the Valuation of the Interior was exactly the first step in the construction of coherent and diversified political measures to look at this problem and act on it. Therefore, the Mission Unit for the Valuation of the Interior made the diagnosis and identified the measures, and this was the first step. In the following government, Antonio Costa created the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion and the Secretary of State for the Valorization of the Interior, which, of course, benefited from all this work of the Mission Unit for the Valorization of the Interior. Thus, as I said in my speech, what we see are consistent policies in all governments of Dr. António Costa — since the first government, in which the Mission Unit for the Valorization of the Interior was created, until the creation of the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion and the State Secretariat for the Valorization of the Interior — and which continue in this Government. The FlorestGal exists, is working, still in Figueiró dos Vinhos, and it is true that there is a lot to do. Now, looking at the Government Programme and the PS Electoral Programme and comparing them with the PSD Electoral Programme, I do not find in the latter an entire chapter — as a meeting in the PS Electoral Programme — for or dedicated to territorial cohesion. Perhaps it would be good if you understood exactly what measures the PSD has. And I do not speak of a measure here or a measure there, but of a set of measures, because this problem is not tackled with one, either with two or with three measures, it has to be a joint set of measures. As for another issue that is in the Government Programme, and which I have been addressing, I must say that cohesion must be worked not only between regions but within the region itself. A very serious problem in this Community framework was to have put everything, or almost everything, in the middle cities—and this issue is in the PSD Election Programme. Now, I, as former mayor of a small municipality of the interior, am of the opinion that this is not fair, it is not true, because these medium cities—and we look at the district of Bragança, the cities of Mirandela, Macedo de Cavaliers and Bragança—are exactly sucking the human resources, the people, the small municipalities. That can't happen. There must be policies that, by strengthening the medium cities, create this balance and also look at the small municipalities. With regard to the questions put by Mr João Dias, of the CFP...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u43	About TAP, nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u44	About TAP, someone else has already answered better than I can answer. Now, one thing is certain: it is important to connect the whole territory and it is important to railway. For example, in the National Railway Plan, the Minister of Infrastructure has already committed himself to the placement of railways in all districts. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Bragança doesn't have a kilometre of rail, and that's not acceptable. Not everything is TAP, there are many things to do. [[Oh, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u45	Mrs Berta Nunes, I would ask you to conclude quickly, because you have long wasted your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u46	Just to finish, and responding to Mr. João Dias, I am not in the opinion that the cause of inequalities...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u47	I heard that!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u48	He didn't hear it, no, he didn't hear it! I do not believe that the cause of inequalities and the problem of the absence of a territorial cohesion, which should exist, are the responsibility of the territories. No, they are responsible for policies that have decades, and they are those policies that we have to change. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u49	Mr Paulo Mota Pinto of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Europe and the world live difficult times, times when, in the middle of the twenty-first century, a renewed but old imperialism, and now with fascinating spells, wants to take out the map one of the largest countries in Europe and to suffocate, by force of arms, the aspiration for freedom of all a people, if necessary, by killing tens or hundreds of thousands of people. We have witnessed, with horror, indignation and revolt, the return to European soil of barbaric war crimes, with total contempt for the human life of civilians—men, women, the elderly and innocent children. We are, by ethical imperative and by natural human feeling, defenders of peace. But we are not wrong, because the knowledge of international realities has taught us that today it is not to hesitate to give to those who are attacked by such cruel and genocidal power to defend themselves, so as to ensure that they will not be attacked again or that they will have the means to repel any new attack. That defense is also our defense. Ukraine is fighting today, indeed, for all of us, for all European peoples and citizens who love and defend freedom, democracy, the basic principles of international order and human rights — defenders among whom we do not count those who try and try to relativize the gravity of the war of aggression initiated by Russia and limit the resistance against it. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u51	In this context, it is imperative to stress the importance of national defence. This is the defense of life, democracy and homeland, of the values that are most expensive to us, of which it depends, physically and spiritually, the realization of many of the rest. The history of humanity and this war, contrary to what say superficial opinions or dangerous temptations of neutralism, show how essential the effort of national defense is, because whenever a people entrusted their defense to others or did not create adequate defence capacity, that people ended up disappearing. We cherish the security of our country, the freedom of our people, our culture, our past and our future, free and democratic, and we love peace, but we cannot allow ourselves to be swept away by hesitations or criticisms of the countries that support Ukraine the most, which is the victim of a war of aggression. Portugal has signed the North Atlantic Treaty together with the United States and other free and sovereign countries, committed to preserving their way of life, linked to the ideals of peace, freedom, human rights and development — an alliance of members that it has joined and want to continue voluntarily and not as vassal states, under the hegemony of any imperialism, an alliance that has ensured one of the greatest periods of peace, stability, freedom and progress that Europe has experienced throughout its troubled history. And if something war has taught us, in this plan, is that the Alliance remains an essential part of a collective defence and security system today. It is important to continue to strengthen NATO's ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ), in a spirit of loyal Euro-American cooperation, following the efforts to defend the eastern border of that Alliance's Member States. It is imperative that our Armed Forces, after the approved restructuring, be equipped with means, equipment, ammunition, human resources and logistics to be able to respond effectively, not only by carefully monitoring respect for national sovereignty on earth, in the air and in the vast Portuguese sea, as by fulfilling our commitments within the framework of the Atlantic Alliance. It is important to strengthen the budget for national defence and to review, in the Military Programming Act, the priorities of equipment, because the strategic context has changed — and much — and it is not understood, for example, that we are dependent on others or privates for the movement of our forces. Moreover, the will and effort of national defence go beyond the purely military plan: they also sit in the patriotic feeling and in the awareness of the general duty to contribute to it also with non-military vectors, including in school training, with robust economic and social development, in the preservation of cultural values and civic education. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The war in Europe frightens us and asks us, but demands clear ideas from us. In the current international context, Portugal must, without hesitation, support the heroic struggle of the Ukrainian people—and not only "be almost" as a supporter, according to the diagnosis which, unfortunately, was made by President Zelenskyy a few weeks ago—and must defend the extension of the sanctions applied to the aggressor, European energy independence and the total embargo on Russian gas and oil purchases, as well as the trial of those responsible for war crimes committed, regardless of the positions they currently occupy. This policy, combined with the help of the Allies to Ukraine — so that the aggressor realizes that he will not have the chance to win — still today is the best chance to achieve peace. New challenges will then await us to ensure that this will be lasting. We see the war and realize that peace continues to be the ultimate goal for us Portuguese. We define and must implement a defence policy to avoid war, but to that end we must strengthen our means of defense, which is defense of our homeland and defence of our freedom. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u52	Mr Paulo Mota Pinto, wrote to ask for clarification, five Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. I ask how you want to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u53	All together, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u54	Mr Pisco has the floor, therefore, to make a request for clarification, available for two minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u55	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I congratulate Mr Paulo Mota Pinto on the intervention he has made here, because indeed the invasion of Ukraine has consequences in various dimensions, from the level of security and defence architecture in Europe and, of course, in the definition of the NATO Strategic Concept (North Atlantic Treaty Organization) and the position of each member in it. Above all, I believe that we are faced again with a scale of barbarism to which we thought it was impossible to watch in the 21st century. This situation calls upon us all, so that no one can effectively remain indifferent to what is happening in Ukraine, to the human devastation and material caused by the invasion that the Russian Federation is operating. No one can close their eyes to what's happening or excuse or contemporanize in the size of horror. If we do, we'll be complicit in inhumanity and barbarity. This horror that the people of Ukraine live and that the world attends evokes other horrors of history, such as the barbershop in the Second World War or the massacre of Srebrenica, and also the terror of Aleppo in Syria, where methods identical to those now being used in Ukraine were used. As if the violation of Ukraine's borders since 2014 and the repeated violation of international law in this escalation of war were not enough, there is increasing evidence of the use of weapons prohibited by international conventions, of indiscriminate attacks on civilian populations, of common valleys that are being discovered every day, of humanitarian corridors that are used as corridors of war, rapes, summary executions, torture, millions of displaced persons and refugees. And more and more we talk about war crimes committed by the Russian military, hence they also begin to reveal, increasingly, charred bodies as a way of preventing the collection of evidence and impermissibility of a future trial in international justice. I therefore ask the honourable Member how he interprets the fact that more than 40 countries have already asked for investigations to collect evidence and to ascertain the possible existence of war crimes, or other more serious crimes in the light of international law, including the crime of genocide itself. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u56	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u57	Mr President, first of all I congratulate Mr Paulo Mota Pinto on his election as President of the PSD Parliamentary Group. On your political statement, I would like to say that we will have an extended debate on Ukraine at the next item on the agenda, where I will be able to deepen some aspects. In any case, at the moment, I wanted to make some comments and ask you a question. The comments are obvious: the unequivocal condemnation of Russia's aggression against the Ukrainian people, the defence of the right of the Ukrainian people to maintain the integrity of their territory and to uphold their right of defence, including their right of armed defence before an aggressor, and the manifestation of all international solidarity that must exist — first of all, that of the Portuguese state and people. For many years, Portugal has, in its Constitution, been defending the sovereignty of peoples, the defense of independence and self-determination of countries, and that is exactly what is being called into question. Therefore, in the matter of the founding letter of our democracy and the brand of ideas that unite us, we could not be more supportive of the Ukrainian people. I believe that this point should be made clear. The second point has to do with war crimes. They must be thoroughly investigated and their perpetrators punished. There are no half-words here, there can never be half-words when it comes to war crimes, and I believe that what we demand is exactly the same as Antonio Guterres demanded. In conclusion, I leave a question. We see that the financial and monetary point of view is included among the various support that Ukraine needs. However, one of the problems that Ukraine has is the weight of public debt in the State accounts and we know that Portugal could and should have an important role in the international positions it occupies and in the international relations it maintains, even making use of the good name it holds in these international relations, to promote forgiveness of Ukrainian public debt to its holders abroad. I ask the honourable Member if he does not consider this aid to be relevant anymore to the Ukrainian people, which would clearly show that, firstly, there is solidarity and never the weariness, which sometimes the debt puts before the people. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u58	For a request for clarification, Mr Pedro Pessanha, of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the invasion of Ukraine by Russia is a significant change in the geopolitics of Europe and Portugal as a member of NATO, which requires a review. The question I ask you is whether or not the PSD is willing to join us to make this review. I also noted and noted that, like us, we value the security of our country. Now, we can't always run after damage. We know that the lack of means of the Armed Forces is in sight. In fact, the last time the salary table was reviewed dates from 2009. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I would like to know whether the PSD is prepared to find solutions to arrive so that, in a dignified way, we will give our armed forces professionals the opportunity to carry out their duties. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u60	For a request for clarification, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u61	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Liberal Initiative agrees with your statement — that is because freedom and sovereignty have costs — but allow me - let me give a special focus to our Armed Forces, leaving a deeper reflection on the war in Ukraine to the point that follows in the agenda. It is time for Portugal to adopt the actions and proposals necessary to provide the Armed Forces with the capacity to intervene in fulfilling the commitments undertaken with the Atlantic Alliance. in a troubled and demanding international environment like that of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, it is obvious that the commitment made at the Summit of Wales in 2014 to affect 2 % of GDP to defence is even more relevant and cannot be ignored at all. The Liberal Initiative considers that in order to prepare for national defence for the 2020-2030, we need to adapt it to geopolitical reality and new missions in order to meet the challenges and thus continue a new cycle. On 24 February, with the unacceptable Russian aggression to Ukraine, it marked the beginning of a shift in the paradigm, as Realpolitik, in Europe, has just gained another preponderance. Today, we cannot deny that the defence of the Western world as we know it, and of which we so much like, is based on multilateralism and respect for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of States. Today, we cannot ignore that security and defence policies with our allies must be strengthened, and Portugal must immediately move from rhetoric to action. Therefore, Mr President, I ask you whether the PSD is available to support the proposals of the Liberal Initiative aimed at providing the Portuguese Armed Forces with the means necessary for fulfilling the commitments made by the Portuguese State in the field of defence. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u62	For a request for clarification, the only representative of the Free Party, Rui Tavares, has one minute.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u63	Madam President, Mr Paulo Mota Pinto, I begin by congratulating you on your election as leader of your parliamentary group and also on your reflection here, which calls us all. We are in uncharted territory of post-war history, Europe and the world, and it is not appropriate for us to do so with the positions that are already crystallized by ideological oppositions we have. These are ideological differences that we have, but that will not help us to make the joint reflection for which the Portuguese Parliament is also called, like all the European Parliaments at this time. Therefore, I assure you that the merits of your reflection have been well received, as I hope you also welcome the reflection on our part. The truth is that the dependence we have on NATO as a security system has important weaknesses. Two more years ago we had a President of the United States of America who basically called into question the effectiveness of Article 5. that of the NATO Charter, which is the one upon which all its mutual support system rests. Moreover, in the Treaty on European Union, we have Article 42 ( 7 ). the, which is basically also a mutual support clause. Knowing that we can be two and a half years from a presidential election in the United States...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u64	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u65	...to put back in the White House a tenant who tells us that article 5. How does the honourable Member see the existence of a European pillar of defence coordination which is accompanied by the necessary democratic deepening and the rule of law within the Union so that Europe can have strategic autonomy with regard to the United States?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u66	To respond to requests for clarification, Mr Paulo Mota Pinto has the floor, three minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u67	Madam President, I would like to thank the questions of the various political forces and record the absence of any question or reflection on this matter by a political force which, until recently in this Parliament, has also made it possible and supported the Government of the Socialist Party : the Communist Party. I would like to start with the reference, because it is a silence and an absence that attracts attention. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u68	They have nothing to say!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u69	The next debate is on the subject!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u70	Secondly, I would like to say that I follow the reflection on the need for Portugal to support the investigation and trial of war crimes committed. We have lawyers in Portugal who work at the International Criminal Court and who can work together in this area and therefore I think we should offer our loans for this investigation and for the accusations on this point. In addition, several political forces have asked me whether we are available to support strengthening the means of national defence. I want to say that, even today, I was sad when I read in a newspaper that the Portuguese State had to pay well more than 1 million euros to privates for the movement of their forces to Ukraine, and in other cases we have to ask other countries to transport us to the theatre of operations. I believe that we need to strengthen the logistical means, which is an important aspect, and we look forward to seeing what the government is proposing in the defence budget in this matter. Another possible aid — possibly not the most pressing one, but they have asked me this question — will of course be in the field of Ukraine's public debt. I think that for now is not the first line of aid needed, but it is something to be thought about as well. As for the question of whether we are available to join other political forces, we have as a habit and principle to analyze the proposals for their intrinsic merit, regardless of who formulates them. So we don't make strings here and we don't stop seeing the proposals they come from DA, B or C. Of course, we have some reluctance in relation to proposals that come from forces that, to some extent, also call into question part of the European civilizational legacy by pursuing minorities, for example. This is something that we do not follow and therefore this speech must be compatible with the speech on the defence of European values, which is also at issue in Europe. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u71	That's the PS speech!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u72	I do not want to divert the speech there now, but I think we have seen, still recently in this Chamber, an example of this and I hope that your electorate will be able to see and hear that. Finally, with regard to Mr Rui Tavares' reflection, I would like to say that the European defence system is more effective, but this war has shown that we are still far away and that it needs to be strengthened. It seems to me that today the Atlantic Alliance, the alliance with the United States and also the cooperation with the United Kingdom are still — and the war has demonstrated this — fundamental instruments for defending European values. I hope that, in the long run, we can make ourselves stronger, more independent and able to deal with defense for ourselves. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u73	For a political statement, Mr Pedro Pinto, of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u74	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: COVID-19 has changed the way people live and relate, having imposed a number of conditions, such as social distance, the limitation of the number of people in certain places and the use of masks. We know that the pandemic has had strong social, economic and health impacts for Portuguese. The government is proud to have more than 90% of the vaccinated population, so it is not clear why the use of masks continues, particularly in schools. [[Congrats from the CH.]] If we still understand that in homes and hospitals, where people are more vulnerable, such as our elderly or sick, if we use masks, in the case of schools, this use does not make any sense. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Moreover, countries such as Denmark, Switzerland, the Netherlands, Sweden, the United Kingdom, France, Ireland and, next week, Spain has already alleviated the use of masks which are no longer used in schools. The mask was a tool in combating pandemics, but its mandatory use also has negative impacts on the population, especially on younger people. We are in an almost endemic phase of the disease, students are without masks at intervals and in the canteen, when they are having lunch. The same students are in other activities after school, such as football, gymnastics or dance, and there they do not wear masks and are in permanent contact. Our young people need a more normal life, where they see their expressions and affections and where they can finally smile again. It is not normal for a group of teenagers to be forced to wear masks in schools, but then, if you go to a discotheque, you don't have to use them. It's an inconsistency you don't understand! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Yesterday, in an interview with SIC News, the Director General of Health, Graza Freitas, said that much is missing at the end of the school year. I'll repeat: there's a lot left by the end of the school year. I don't know if Dr. Graça Freitas knows how many periods the school has, but she has three, and we're starting the third period. So there must be some fighting there, but we also understand, coming from those who said that the pandemic did not reach Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It's time to finish the masks. In fact, this government and this majority, instead of worrying about the masks, should be concerned about the 28 000 students, already two thirds of the school year, who did not have all the classes due to lack of teachers. I remember that at the beginning of this year there were 100 000 students who did not have all the disciplines. [[Congrats from the CH.]] This is a problem that affects in particular Lisbon, Setúbal and, imagine, Faro, which demonstrates the contempt this government votes for the Algarve and the Algarves. Worse, the disciplines in which teachers are most lacking are: English, English and Mathematics, all of which are structural and very important for the future of our young people. Instead of worrying about the masks, they should be concerned about the increase in bullying cases in schools, this phenomenon that can traumatize a young person for the rest of his life. According to data from UNICEF ( United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund ), almost half of Portuguese youth have already been victims of this practice. Instead of worrying about the masks, they should be concerned about the insecurity and violence that exist in schools, which neither assistants nor teachers can control. Yes, violence, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. I refer to the case of that 12-year-old girl who was assaulted at a school in Cascais by an older colleague, with the comrades filming her and spreading her on social networks; or, earlier this year, at the Entrance, the 11-year-old student who was assaulted, and the images also spread quickly; while not forgetting that child barbarously attacked, in January, in a school in Matosinhos, having the employee also assaulted, when he tried to intervene. All these cases report common practices that occur throughout the country. Instead of worrying about the masks, they should be concerned about the latest data, which realize that aggression in schools has increased, with four daily attacks in educational establishments, without anyone doing anything.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u75	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u76	Instead of worrying about the masks, they should be concerned about the lack of elements in the Safe School, security force of the PSP (PSC), with few effective means, with many cars, sometimes damaged and about 750 effective for the whole country, which is manifestly little to control wrongdoing and sometimes even drug trafficking at the doors of schools. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Instead of worrying about masks, they should be concerned about the lack of respect and aggression that teachers are targeted, by students and parents of students, or even by certain families—sometimes defended here, in this Parliament—as happened last day 15 at the Secondary School of the Circle, in Porto, where a 60-year-old teacher was assaulted. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Instead of worrying about the masks, they should be concerned about the ideological burden that exists in some disciplines, particularly regarding the concealment of part of Portuguese history, wanting to rewrite it, to do the will to the extreme left, and hiding, for example, on 25 November 1975. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Instead of worrying about masks, they should be concerned about meaningless questionnaires, such as the one inserted in the Sexual Education manual that is distributed to teachers, in which the sexual orientation of students is questioned. Instead of worrying about masks, let our children smile and live without bites. Let's free the country. [[Ch's applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u77	The Bureau shall register a Member to request clarification. To that end, Mr Rui Cristina of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Pedro Pinto, as a conscious opposition, the PSD adopts a constructive position in relation to the work of the Directorate-General for Health in combating this pandemic. We maintain our position, but it is of great importance that all decisions should be guided by transparency and rationality, according to the one who is the national interest, especially when it comes to our children. Thus, after the Directorate-General for School Establishments had informed that it would maintain the use of masks in the third period, which started on 19 April, and since the measures to mitigate the infection and combat COVID-19 are not yet known, which will be adopted at the stage following the state of alert in the country, which ends on the next Monday, the PSD immediately addressed a question to the Minister of Health, in order to assess, first, whether the use of masks in schools is recommended or is mandatory and, second, how scientific justification supports the indication of prolonging the use of masks in schools. We know that the use of masks in school environment naturally conditions the learning process, and may even have implications for the cognitive development of students, and is still an obstacle to the relationship and social interaction. For these reasons, it is important that this decision to maintain the mandatory use of masks in schools is justified in the context of public health. The effective gains of this option should be clearly stated in terms of the prevention of contamination. We are waiting for the Minister's reply, which we hope will be speedy, and this is a subject of the greatest relevance to the country. Several experts have already publicly expressed themselves, suggesting that the end of the use of masks will be soon, considering that it is already the practice in most European countries. in this sense, the Social Democratic Party called for the hearing, in the Health Committee, of experts seated at the meeting of the Infarmed (National Medicines and Health Products Authority), with the greatest urgency, because it is important to know, in depth, the position of the scientific community and consequent recommendations on this subject.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u79	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u80	We hope that this request will be approved and that we will soon be able to hear these experts, because the matter is serious and requires responsible opposition. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u81	In response to this request for clarification, Mr Pedro Pinto, of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u82	Mr President, Mr Rui Cristina, I believe you did not ask any questions, spoke about a measure that the PSD is going to take, but asked no questions. There are already several studies indicating that the use of masks in school particularly affects children. However, when more than half of Europe has already finished using masks in schools,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u83	Half? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u84	... when all European countries are already relieving the use of mask, Portugal continues to use the mask. It is enough to bite our children, it is enough to bite the students, because the great truth is precisely this: the use of masks in schools makes no sense, because, after all — Mr Rui Cristina, of course, he knows what I am going to say — the students are in contact either in the canteens or in recreation, or in extracurricular activities. So it doesn't make sense to be all those hours in a classroom with the mask. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[In the meantime, President Augusto Santos Silva took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u85	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late. For a political declaration, Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto has now the floor of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have already realized, in these early days, that the political environment in the near future will be intense. We have many Members here who are eager to drag political opponents to fulfil their media agendas, but we must not forget, in the midst of so many rabies, that what is truly overwhelming in Portuguese society today is the lack of investment, the lack of good jobs and the lack of opportunities. The lack of opportunities is particularly cruel, because there is nothing worse, for those who are ill, than having no hope of coming to be better. It is cruel to think that your children will not have a better future than yours and even more painful is to anticipate that they can have an even worse future. My mom, who's here today, had to leave school when she was 11. He lived for years in a house without great conditions, but spent a life working to, step by step, build a new home and offer a better future for his children. He spent thousands of hours sitting in his sewing machine because he knew that his humble origins were not eternal condemnation and that going up into life for his merit was possible. The fact that I am here shows that it is possible, shows that it has succeeded. But we were lucky to go through this in the '80s and '90s. It was a time when convergence with Europe seemed inevitable, we lived in a growing country, and when a country grows it offers opportunities for people to grow up with it. It was a country that allowed this leap from one generation to another, a country that allowed parents as my dreams with a better future for their children. Today, those who want to make the same leap already feel like they have to leave the country to get it. We are before the most well-prepared generation ever, but which tragically cannot live better than their parents. It was important that whoever had political responsibilities in this century made a serious introspection and realized that mistakes were made so that the economy did not grow. It is important for the economy to grow, because the economy is not numbers, the economy is people, the economy becomes life stories. [[Applause from the IL.]] Creating conditions for the economy to grow does not only serve to feed statistics and rankings. It serves to give people more opportunities, to allow dreams of social mobility to become real, to allow more parents who have left school too early one day to see their children in this pulpit. We can't and we shouldn't steal from anyone that dream. Portugal has to grow again. [[Applause from the IL.]] The lack of growth nurtures hopelessness and the lack of hope feeds the revolt and all those living in this revolt. The Portuguese people who see each other here are always wrong about the reasons for stagnation. On the other hand, they tell them that the guilt of poverty is of the few who are still going to have some success and that the solution is to tax more, it is to punish success, to nationalize that success. It's not that way! [[Applause from the IL.]] But on the other hand, they tell them that the fault of their poverty is those of the poorest neighbours and that everything will be resolved, to screams, pointing the finger at the most excluded groups, contributing to increasing this exclusion and all the problems resulting therefrom. The populist versions of the origin of our problems can even give good slogans, they can even give votes, but they do not contribute to solving these problems and, on the contrary, help to protect the true culprits, who have had power in the last two decades and who will continue to have it in the next four years. I saw Mr. Prime Minister waving the false dichotomy between liberalism and the future of the social state. The reality tells us something completely different. Ireland, accused by many of being overly liberal, has twice as much public expenditure per inhabitant compared to Portugal ; Holland, also a neoliberal monster, has almost twice as much as triple ; Estonia, with an evil single rate, doubled its spending on education and health in the last decade while ours almost did not change. [[Applause from the IL.]] These countries could have better public services, better pay teachers, doctors, nurses, precisely because their economic liberal policies allowed them to grow and create more wealth. They may stir the false dichotomys that they understand well, but the truth is that liberalism works and needs the social state. [[Applause from the IL.]] Liberalism is working and social mobility is needed. Liberalism works and needs Portugal. [[Applause from the IL.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, most of the people sitting here have been elected for the first time this year. Regardless of the party, I know you're proud to be here. I am, too. But this pride will quickly turn into shame if, at the end of this legislature, the country is already the poorest in the euro area, and will contribute to this shame all those who insist on the same policies, all those who do not oppose themselves sufficiently assertively and all those who distract the country from these problems with circuses and rascals. If we do not want to go through this shame, it is time to change the model of economic development statistic, centralist and spending over the past 20 years. This will be our legacy. We have to let the Portuguese dream again. [[IL applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u87	The Bureau registered six Mrs. Members to make requests for clarification, to which Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto will answer in blocks of three. First of all, Mr Filipe Melo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u88	Mr President, Mr Guimarães Pinto, of course, has shared the views of the Liberal Initiative that we have been going through — and since a long time ago — a great period of economic stagnation in our country. However, it is important to realize that this stagnation is due to several factors, in particular one that greatly affects economic growth. I am talking about the parallel economy, corruption and fraud, subjects on which I would like to know your opinion. in this sense, I remember that the latest Observatory, which dates 2015, says that 28 % of our GDP is represented by these factors, which I think we both want to fight. And if we both want to combat these factors that are largely attacking our economy — basically, we are talking about a room in our economy — I ask Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto if his parliamentary group is prepared to follow up on all the proposals we have been making on these matters. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u89	You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mr Carlos Pereira, of the Socialist Party. You've got up to two minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I welcome Mr Guimarães Pinto and thank him for bringing this thought to Parliament, an important reflection on economic growth and future challenges. It was in some way a very promising reflection, with many unproven statements.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u91	Which ones? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u92	Perhaps it is worth making some comments about them. In his statement, he said « lack of public investment », « lack of opportunities », « lack of investment ». Let us see, if we look at the statistics—as you like to bring them—and for the recent developments in the country's effort to push for economic growth through investment, which seems to me to be a healthy path, and I think that you agree with me, we realize that the country has done well. The country has grown from the investment point of view more than in recent years, and has grown much. I must say that between 2015 and 2020 — we are going to take the pandemic of this process — the country has grown almost 30 %, and has grown above the European Union average in terms of investment. This really seems like good news to me. And the same happened with regard to foreign direct investment, in which Portugal beat record behind record. I beat the record in 2017, in 2018 it beat the 2017, in 2019 it beat the 2018. This means that the country is capable of attracting investment, which is truly important. Therefore, Mr President, some of your proclamations are not really understood. On the other hand, there is a subject which is very intriguing for the Socialist Party's parliamentary group. It is that you made a proclamation about countries that have made a lot of public spending on education and health. We also know the importance of spending on education and health. However, I must say, in a separate way, in a kind of parenthesis, that the honourable Member, having taken care to tell a part of his story saying that his mother had difficulties, is proof of the success and importance of the social state, which bets on the public school, that he bets on people and that he allows people to grow, integrate and be someone in the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, your speech — and I am finished now, Mr President — is a number of unwarranted statements, it is important that we understand what the Liberal Initiative is after all in order to make the country grow more than it has ever been in recent years, with the effort that this Government has made. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u93	For a request for clarification, Mr Nuno Carvalho, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, I thank you for your statements and the way you spoke about the offspring. But I leave you with a note for which you will surely follow us: the main problem of descent that we have is that of the offspring of the socialist government. António Costa comes down from António Costa, which comes down from António Costa. That is the problem: we are going to the Third Government of the Socialist Party! [[PSD and PS Members applauded.]] Sir, I think you'll agree with something else. We do not have a lack of liberalism, we have socialism too much. That is the problem: too much socialism! [[Protests from PS Hugo Costa.]] This is so bad, so bad, so bad, that Mr. Carlos Pereira compares António Costa with António Costa, but he never explains that in 2017 we were overcome by Lithuania and Poland, that in 2021 we were overcome by Hungary and Poland and that in 2023 we will be overcome by Romania, almost certainly. But Costa always exceeds Costa. [[PS protests.]] That's great, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a wonderful path that you follow alone, the country follows another. In fact, I do not think liberalism is an answer to everything. I understand your question in perfection, but there is something that unites us: the excess of investment that is placed in the state and the absence of these same means that are placed in the private sector to prevent the worsening of the economy. I am sure that the Socialist Party feels comfortable in the position of giving bribes to people. You guys are happy giving people crumbs!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u95	The request for clarification is for the IL!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u96	And then I don't think we need liberalism to fight, we need, yes, to be all united to fight socialism, we must all be united to fight another problem of descent. It's just that Antonio Costa and his first government came down from the government of José Socrates... [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u97	...and there is the great origin of the problem. The great source of the problem! Unfortunately, this same seed and inheritance has been accepted by those parties who have suffered a "bear embrace" and who are quiet and do not come to the debate. Mr President, we are with you against socialism and we have to fight. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u98	To reply, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto has the floor. You've got up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u99	Mr President, Mr Filipe Melo, I confess that I was lucky with the questions asked to me because they were exactly the two that I was waiting for. Being against the crime? Everyone is against crime. I want to believe that everyone in this house is against crime. I hear you often talking about very specific crimes and I went to see reports of crimes five or six days ago: « Thief steals 140 000 € on jewelry and mobile phones », « Man ambushes to kill woman on the street », « Woman of 68 years assaulted », « Predador leaves sex tickets at school door », « Man beats woman and baby daughter »,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u100	That's enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u101	... « Man arrested with 13,000 child pornography files », « Man asphyxiates companion to death ». All this news of horrible crimes has two things in common: the first is not to know that the suspect belongs to any minority; the second is not to have been part of any speech from the Arrival. I am absolutely sure that if one of these crimes had been committed by a gypsy, the arrival would have repeated it here 10 or 20 times! [[Congratulations from the IL and from the PS Members.]] [[CH protests.]] I know they care a lot about crime, but when someone only talks about crimes committed by certain minorities, it's not the crime that concerns them, it's something else. [[Congratulations from the IL and from the PS Members.]] Mr President, the Assembly of the Republic has decided to sit next to it, but it is not wrong. There are issues between us that there is not only a red line, there is an immense wall of decency, respect for diversity, democracy and human rights. [[Applause from the IL and from the L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u102	You didn't answer the question, did you?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u103	Mr. Carlos Pereira, I confess that I also expected exactly the question you asked me, which I am very grateful for. And even here I have the investment numbers. Investment in Portugal has risen — the starting point is not much – but is still far below that in Ireland, the Netherlands or the per capita GDP of Estonia. I find it very funny every time they talk about these things, because they always talk about growth between 2015 and 2019, forgetting what happened between 2020 and 2021, in which the pandemic was in all countries, but we are one of the five countries that have not yet recovered the 2019 level. [[Applause from the IL.]] Mr. Member, until I can talk about growth between 2015 and 2019, that they like to boast so much. Let me tell you which countries have grown more than Portugal in this period: Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Ireland, Croatia, Cyprus, Latvia, Lithuania, Hungary, Malta, Poland, Romania and Slovakia. All countries of convergence, less Slovakia, have grown more than we do, even in that period when they say it was the only success of the last 20 years. [[Applause from the IL.]] Mr President, the PS does not satisfy itself very much, unfortunately. And this is one of the dramas of this country: the PS is satisfied with very little. I'm so sorry. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u104	Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, we have listened carefully to the intervention of the Liberal Initiative in this debate and have recorded, from the point of view of the criticisms and concerns that your party transmits in relation to economic growth, a note of contradiction, which has to do with the very diagnosis of the problems of the country and the deepest causes of the problems we face. We have had—and we can give some examples— last year the companies of the PSI-20 (Portuguese Stock Index) and not even 20 are listed companies in stock, distributing dividends to shareholders of more than EUR 7 billion, almost EUR 8 billion, complaining at the same time that they do not have capital to invest. Private investment is one of the important factors for economic growth and does not happen because it is necessary to give money to shareholders. We had large national companies controlled by foreign economic groups to destroy fixed capital. This is not just about making gross fixed capital formation beyond what would be necessary. Don't! They are destroying capital, they are squandering resources and distributing dividends above the results they have presented, damaging the economy and companies in our country. The specific case of the CTT ( Correios de Portugal ) is a flagrant example, but we can refer to others. And we had private banks in Portugal to promote collective redundancies, to close services, in practice, inviting to emigrate qualified young people and, moreover, the least young people who, in these banks or other jobs, contribute to creating wealth in our country. As the honourable Member said, they were invited to emigrate. When we talk about obstacles to economic growth, when we talk about an anemic growth that has occurred in the last decades in Portugal, in fact, chronologically, since the country has lost its exchange rate policy tools, we cannot help but wonder whether, in these various concrete examples that are a real factor of explanation for anemic growth, for investment and for the lack of answers that the economy needs and that our development requires, the political options for liberalizing the various economic sectors, for privatization of strategic sectors, with the results that are in sight, deserve your disagreement. We just thought it wasn't.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u106	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u107	I will finish, Mr. President. In view of this, the question we have raised is whether you continue to believe that there are more States in these sectors that have been privatized and liberalized. It's because there's no state there! Thank you very much, Mr President. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u108	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, from the Left Block, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u109	Mr President, Mr Guimarães Pinto, allow me now to use this moment to congratulate your mother. She's not responsible for her son leaving liberal... [[IL Members' laughter.]] I believe in free thinking and freedom of choice individually and, from this point of view, I have kept no bitterness for you. But I think it will be worth talking to your mother to show you how, over the decades that you mentioned, you can draw a brutal difference from previous generations. It is that it was the social state that allowed him to give the child health care that did not exist in her childhood, allowed him to study, allowed him to put his child in college, allowed him until his son took the doctorate. I believe that this recognition of the social state is to be valued, that it is to be valued because it was the most brilliant thing that happened in our democratic period. I must also record — and I must congratulate you on this — the clarity with which, in your speech, you have listed the history of liberalism in Portugal and have shown that there are moments of gold that are reference. He spoke of the 1980s, of the 1990s, and I remember well, and I can conclude with the next decade and a very simple idea: liberalism does not work and does harm, because it has already done, Portugal. In the 1980s and 1990s, in the district of Porto, in the district of Aveiro, in the district of Braga, will remember-CL, like me, how many Ferrari and Porsche were bought with the liberalism of the Community funds. Is that the paradigm that brings up the table, Mr. Deputies? And the first decade of this millennium? Do you know what the liberalism of the international financial crisis has done to our country? Do you remember that? Do you know what you've done to the new generations? Do you know what that means for the new generations and what they will carry for the life of calculus wages, pull back life prospects? Oh, my God! And now, about the current liberalism of the unregulated housing market, you know what that means for the younger ones and for them to be emancipated? I mean the most liberal part possible, which is to have the individual freedom to leave the parents' homes, where they are always tied, because there is a local accommodation whatever the Liberal Initiative protects and does not let them have home...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u110	You better not talk about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u111	Mr President, there is only one thing: liberalism does not work and really hurts Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u112	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u113	Mr President, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, mentioned in his speech the parents who left school too early and who today can see children in that pulpit — words that touched me and that certainly played many Portuguese, because we are millions in that situation. When he responded to the extreme right...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u114	Far left are you!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u115	... and said that there should be a wall of decency and responsibility in defense of the democratic state and the rule of law, I applaud because I really think there must be convergence in these values. And it is about these two moments of your interventions that you would like us to reflect in order to assess whether there is an examination of consciousness to be done by the honourable Member and his party in relation to how they have promoted polarization, caricature and even the diabolization of other political groups and other political families in our Europe. It is that the countries of the European project, the most developed countries of our continent, are also liberal, but they are also Christian Democrats, they are also socialist, they are also green, they are even Euro-Communist. All these political families have made progress in Europe. To point out that the responsibility for the situation in which we are, as you did in your speech, lies with the politicians of democracy for the past two decades, the PS and the PSD, although the PSD has tried to escape, is to forget that we have seen a secular delay, particularly in terms of education. So the question is: in promoting this "caricature" of other political families and a false polarization—in which some, because they defend more social status, are bad and others, because they defend more market, are good—will not be the Liberal Initiative to feed the soil in which populists and the extreme right will end up reaping fruit? Will there not be an examination of conscience in relation to this speech and practice? [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u116	To reply, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u117	Mr President, I begin by answering the question by Mr Rui Tavares. Obviously, when we've been delaying for 20 years, we have to ask for responsibilities that you are responsible for. I mean, I think criticizing democratic parties is not defending parties that are not. It's a question that, honestly, doesn't make much sense. Mr Bruno Dias spoke about investment and the shareholders' dividends, and out there.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u118	Confused things...!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u119	Let's see, we can only attract investment if we offer investors conditions to have their return. If we start to stop shareholders from getting their investments back, we stop having investments. This seems obvious to me. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] Mr Pedro Filipe Soares spoke about the issue of the importance of education and health, and out there. I can also reply to the two Members: the Liberal Initiative advocates that there is education for all, it has always defended this; the Liberal Initiative defends universal access to health care, it has always defended that. Mrs. Members, we defend it is a different model of providing these services, a model of freedom of choice. Even here I can mention my personal example: for many years, because I did not have that freedom of choice, I was in schools without a canteen, where the police appeared more often than many teachers, but very close, there were much better schools to where I was prevented from going. Today, no student can go, much because of your influence, to one of these much better schools where I could not go. It was the Lamas College, which changed the lives of many people. [[Applause from the IL.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there were children of workers and children of their employers. It was a truly multiclassist school that, because of your influence, closed. Today, you cannot provide the same services you could provide before. Like this school, there are many others. [[Applause from the IL.]] As I still have some time for debate and how they have questioned that a liberal economy can effectively provide the economy with more resources to provide better education services and better health services, I ask Mr President, if I may, if I may, that it gives 20 seconds of our time to the various banks so that, since I have already listed several examples of countries that have developed thanks to a liberal economy, I can find examples of countries that have developed with the policies they defend. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u120	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u121	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u122	Mr President, only to make a request concerning the functioning of the Bureau in accordance with Rule 81. the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u123	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u124	Mr President, I would like to ask the Bureau to distribute to the very unwelcome Member of the Liberal Initiative a request with all the proposals of the Arrival that aim to combat all types of crimes, whether those committed by minorities or not. For us, crime is what interests to fight. [[Congrats from the CH.]] We understand that you have arrived recently in Parliament, but we will try to deliver in your office and right here all the proposals of the Arrival that are against sexual abusers, corrupt bankers and all those who destroy Portugal, whether or not they are gypsies, even those whom the Liberal Initiative does not know or want to know. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u125	For a political declaration on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the vast majority of the Portuguese people, life is more expensive, more difficult and unfair. With every passing day, the salary and retirement pension are shorter for increasing expenses, with the end of the month increasing. This is the reality that confronts those who go shopping to bring food home, who pays the bills of light, water, gas, income and benefits, telecommunications, fuels, insurance, tolls, medicines and a whole set of expenses. The data released yesterday by the National Institute of Statistics point to price increases, i.e. to a homologous change in the consumer price index of 5, 3 %, with the highest value since June 1994 — almost three decades ago! While fuel prices beat all their records, Galp distributed among its shareholders the amount of EUR 1 billion in dividends. And the same example can be extended to the profits of EDP ( Energies of Portugal ), large distribution companies or banks. The government cannot close its eyes to this reality or the speculation that is under way. What is required is the defense and protection of families in the face of the general increase in prices and not compliance with speculation. On the other hand, external dependence on the agri-food chain is critical. As for wheat, which is the basis of national food, we are dependent on external production by 96 %. It is urgent to ensure the food supply needs of our country, replacing imports with national production. Production costs are becoming more and more unbearable. Today, farmers and livestock producers pay to produce and sell their products at very low prices to the large distribution, which puts them on shelves at exorbitant prices, while exploiting small producers and also consumers. In fisheries, the escalation of fuel prices and the lack of support in a sector already in great difficulty put the continuation of activity at risk. It is essential to move forward with measures to support small-scale fishing, crafts and coastal activities to meet the costs of production. It is essential to ensure food sovereignty, in particular in order to increase cereal production; to ensure fair payment to producers, never below production costs; and to combat the exploitation that is being made with the increase in food prices. As for the reduction of taxes, this may have some positive effect, we have already said so. In addition, some of the measures that the Government has now taken, particularly in relation to fuel taxes, have been advanced by the CFP still last week. But these tax reduction measures must be accompanied by control and price fixing measures. by opting to reduce taxes without fixing maximum prices, as in fuels, the Government allows economic groups to continue to increase prices in a speculative manner and leaves open the possibility of oil, large distribution groups and other economic groups to continue to promote speculative price increases, placing tax revenues to subsidize their profits. The measures now announced by the Government escape what is essential in combating speculation and rising prices and the unswerving increase in wages and retirement pensions. And, above all, they ignore that the problems they say they want to respond are inseparable from the instigation of the sanctions that the pretext of war is being imposed, benefiting those who profit from them, to the detriment of the interests of Portuguese workers and people. The immediate response to increased cost of living must be price control and fixation measures and the increase in wages and pensions. Otherwise, it is the free wheel for the use and profit of some, at the expense of poverty and the difficulties of almost all. With the measures announced, the Government does not face the problems at the root of this situation. Worse: Invoking this time the fight against inflationist spiral not to increase wages and pensions is to leave field open to exploitation and impoverishment. The refusal of any measure to increase wages and pensions will mean the return of cuts, not with the official decisions of the troika time, but with the actual loss of purchasing power. by refusing to increase wages and pensions, the government meets the demands of employers' confederations, imposing on workers, pensioners, the degradation of their living conditions. This is already a first sample of what the government is setting up in this legislative process. That is why they wanted the absolute majority and this is a first and enlightening example of what the next four years may be. They'll have us in front if they do! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the unstoppable rise in prices, associated with fabulous profits by large economic groups, is not inevitable fatality. Instigation and use of war and sanctions, in the path of exploitation that some have made of the impacts of the epidemic, can only be combated by an investment of policies that, instead of protecting the profits of large companies, protect the purchasing power of workers, pensioners and the activity of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Inflation is, in some cases, a direct consequence of war and sanctions, but it is, in much more situations, the result of its use as a pretext for speculative price increases. This use must be prevented and the government should also intervene in the direction of peace, not in the face of the escalation and escalation of war. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u127	The Bureau recorded the registration of six Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. In the meantime, Mr Bruno Dias reported that he intends to respond in two sets of three. For the first request for clarification, I give the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Bruno Dias, we could no longer agree with the concerns expressed in your political statement. In the face of the worsening inflation, we are aware that this month, every 50 € of food cabaz purchases, the Portuguese will pay more than 3 € on the invoice. In fact, we haven't seen anything like this in 28 years. The actual increase of 6 % in the minimum wage at the beginning of the year was literally swallowed by inflation and, therefore, in practice, there was no such increase. The increase in pensions or public service salaries, which were planned in the Budget, will also mean, in practice, a loss of income. With regard to this, I cannot fail to comment on the fact that we had Members here last week in this House saying that public servants in times of economic crisis should have been without a duel. I think it is not worth being beating these public officials, who, in times of crisis, went to the country and worked hours ago, and then find, in reverse, that they are not worthy of receiving their dues when indeed the times of crisis require cuts or austerity, with which we do not agree, of course. These are urgent and exceptional measures that the country must have at this time, namely to reduce the tax burden on families, with the revision of the steps of the IRS (tax on income of natural persons) — and I ask whether this concern of the NAP, already proposed in the Budget of last year, including for the middle class – but also zero VAT (tax on value added) for some products, namely bread and also vegetables and fruits, since under the new Directive this is indeed possible. On the other hand, we also understand that families with pets should not be left behind, so I wonder if the PCP follows us down on the VAT of animal health and feed services for pets, among the many other measures that at this time we need to take to effectively combat the effects of inflation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u129	Mr Hugo Costa, from the PS, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bruno Dias, first of all we welcome the chosen theme. Of course, the inflationary impact of war, which some try to say does not exist, on prices is a reality. We therefore question whether measures such as the reduction of the ISP (the tax on oil and energy products) are equivalent to the reduction to 13 % of VAT, the request to the European Commission for the reduction of VAT in energy, support for gas stores, which is equivalent to what we also had in the social rate of electricity — which you so well know, here too much discussed in previous Parliaments — are not an important answer to these matters. We well know that the response of the Portuguese Communist Party, of course, is that of fixed prices. over time, the Socialist Party has discussed this matter. Another issue is that of maximum ceilings at price levels, which are also being discussed at European level. Portugal and Spain also made this debate and asked the honourable Member how you see this proposal. But which country, with the administrative fixation at all prices, shows growths such as Portugal, of 4, 9 %, Mr? How is that possible? [[Protests by MPs from PCP Alma Rivera and Diana Ferreira.]] Another question, honourable Member: over the last few years, the governments of the Socialist Party have passed the national minimum wage from €505 to €705. Was it or not a great advance at wage level, which you didn't mention here? [[Protests by PCP members Alma Rivera and João Dias.]] In recent years — also with the support of the Portuguese Communist Party — measures such as measures to support tariff reductions have been of the measures with the most social and economic impact that have already existed, Mr President! Therefore, Mr President, the question I ask you is very simply the following: what real measures is that the CFP has to respond to these issues and to this crisis and how the CFP, which always criticizes the answers at European level, forgetting that Europe gives us, for example, the largest financial package, which is the recovery and resilience plan, which is about EUR 609 million,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u131	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u132	... or the new Community Support Framework, can respond to this challenge without being in the European context and from an isolated point of view, as the Portuguese Communist Party wishes, forgetting that there is a war, which is against, saying that it does not exist? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u133	The increase in pensions was not an option for PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u134	Mr José Moura Soeiro, from BE, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u135	Mr President, Mr Bruno Dias, there are many ways of impoverishing. We know what the government on the right and the troika preferred: direct cuts in wages, increased taxes on labour income, cut in social benefits. But the moment we are living is already becoming, too, a process of impoverishment, because if prices increase more than 5% in essential goods and wages do not increase, this means a real cut in wages and income. To stop this process, there is certainly no magic wand, a single, isolated action that solves all the problems, but there are essential measures, and the Government and the Socialist Party have rejected them. First, it is necessary to intervene in price formation, to intervene, to condition, to limit profit margins, the speculative process that is already under way, whether in the energy sector or in large distribution. And secondly, it is necessary to increase wages and pensions so that their value is not eaten by inflation and this speculation in prices. by rejecting these two measures, the Socialist Party, the Government, maintains the profits of these economic groups and maintains the impact of this speculative process, and not even with the taxation of extraordinary profits, of fallen profits from heaven, the government commits itself. by not wanting to move in wages, imputes the effects of this crisis to those who work, allowing inflation to permanently enter a cut in workers' wages. Mr President, in essence, he asked this Parliament whether this is what the absolute majority of the Socialist Party serves for, and I believe that we converged on the answer: until we see it, this is what the absolute majority of the Socialist Party serves for. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u136	To reply, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u137	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking the Inês de Sousa Real, Hugo Costa and José Soeiro for the issues put to the CFP at this stage. I would, in fact, like to underline the question mentioned by the honourable Members. Members, which has to do with wage increases, which are being consumed by rising prices, and in which it can be said from now on that workers are already losing and this has not yet begun! As far as inflation is concerned, workers already have to, because, in the face of wage increases that have long been necessary and urgent, workers continue to demand, quite rightly legitimately, that demand for wage increases. The fact is that the increase in the minimum wage to €705, which the Government decided at the beginning of the year, is now practically absorbed by 5, 3 % inflation—only this! And, in the case of pensions, the situation is even more serious, with inflation to be between 5 and up to 20 times higher than the increase that pensions had in January. Therefore, this subject raises, in an undisputed way, the problem of workers' and pensioners' incomes, until there is an aspect, in these issues of inflation, which is not evidenced in official statistics, but which is an unmistakable reality for most people. It is that in the layers of the population with lower incomes, where wages and reforms are lower and the difficulties are more severe, the percentage that is spent with food, transport, household income, light account is much heavier than in cases where purchasing power is higher.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u138	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u139	And it was precisely in those classes of goods, products and services that the contribution, i.e. the relative weight of these classes of goods, inflation and the price index, was more severe. Thus, for this population, inflation is more serious, which in average terms is 5, 3 %. In real life, this is much more serious. In the specific lives of workers, difficulties are much greater than those in the official speeches and, therefore, fiscal policy, yes, Mrs Deputy, is inseparable from this discussion, either in the question of incomes or in the question of prices, but does not replace the central issue of income policy, wages and pension pensions. Yes, it is a struggle for many years of the CFP the question of the steps of the IRS, and we have, in fact, defended the so-called'minimum of existence', which is the value from which the IRS is paid and before which it should not be paid, because the income is so low, that it should not justify it. Well, but the central question is the wages, it's the salary at the end of the month, it's the retirement pension, and I must say it's almost touching that the PS at this time appears to boast of the increases in pensions when so much difficulty created to be approved,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u140	Well remembered! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u141	... not allowing them to be further, or support for tariff reduction, in which they were 22 years voting against, when the CFP proposed it,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u142	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u143	...or social support in the purchase of the gas shop, which was propagated and had no real real realization. It is a question that has to do with prices, it is a question that has to do with wages, but which requires a full and effective response by the government, which we have so far not to observe. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u144	Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira, from the PSD, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bruno Dias, I greet the Portuguese Communist Party for bringing this important issue to debate. But allow me, Mr President, to begin with the central point of your intervention, because perhaps by blind ideology, you are focusing on what is happening as a speculative price campaign on the part of companies. Mr President, I ask you if it is not these companies, if it is not the Portuguese business fabric that is still barely coming out of a pandemic and is faced with the increase in the price of raw materials in international markets, with the increase in the price of energy itself?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u146	Yes, Galp and EDP!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u147	Mr President, does this reflect production costs or does it not? When asked what the CFP response is and the answer is the setting of administrative prices, I wonder what the impact of it on companies. Is it to close more companies, such as job creation? But I also ask you, Mr Commissioner, about the government, how does the CFP see the answers that the Government gives. Our Minister for Economic Affairs spoke in support of EUR 160 million for companies with higher energy consumption, which is clearly insufficient and recognised as insufficient by the business sector. In fact, it is recalled how many times the PSD here has claimed greater investment in companies, particularly through the PRR. And, Mr President, the question here is the following: in addition to these decisions or proposals, so much from the CFP, are prices fixed and then the entrepreneurs who resolve, the ones who create and maintain jobs, what support is that the CFP provides or proposes in this area for businesses, in addition to the support it proposes for people? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u148	For a request for clarification, Mr. Jorge Galveias, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u149	Mr President, Mr Bruno Dias, it is no surprise that I see the PCP Parliamentary Group and even the other parliamentary groups concerned themselves with the increase in cost of living, the increase in wages, issues which are also of concern to the Arrival, logically. However, I do not see them with any real concern, nor with a mere blah-blah, about the survival of 2 million Portuguese who currently survive and only survive. The government supported by management has only increased the number of poor people and promises that have not been fulfilled. It is not a Member of the Arrival who affirms it, but yes, the data of ICOR 2021 (Investigation of Living and Income Conditions). The rate of poverty increased to 18, 4 %, plus 2 %, more than in 2019. This means more than 228 000 people in poverty. Poverty values have increased in women, children and the elderly. The latter, after working their entire lives, are seen with torso pensions, as opposed to politicians with reforms of millions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u150	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u151	If for the middle class the increase in cost of living is an important matter, what will they say and what will happen to those who live below the poverty line? Mr President, the question I ask you on behalf of people in poverty is only one: the PCP wants to continue alongside the PS and the Left Block, producing increasingly poorer,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u152	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u153	...or do you want to gain courage and be by the side of the coming, in the fight against the inequalities and privileged of the existing system? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u154	To make a request for clarification, Mr Bernardo Blanco, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u155	Mr President, Mr Bruno Dias, it is really phenomenal how the CFP today comes to talk about rising prices without saying that to a large extent this rise is due to Ukraine's invasion by your Russian friends. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u156	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u157	It is that, before talking about inflation, we must condemn here the fact that the CFP does not condemn Putin and the Russian regime. Your language, your message ignores the daily footage, certified by independent entities, of Ukrainians in suffering, but with much courage to fight against the Russian invaders. Therefore, and very quickly, I tell you that there are certainly those who prefer the old times of the Soviet Union, we prefer the new times, always, of the European Union. [[Applause from the IL.]] But obviously people in Portugal do not want to know so much about these words, they want to know more about measures that increase their purchasing power. And I have three questions for this to ask the CFP. The first is whether to accompany the Liberal Initiative in a substantial drop in the IRS, above the inflation rate, which updates the steps of the IRS to inflation, which the PS Government today has already said it does not want to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u158	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u159	The second is whether to accept the liberalisation of the renewable energy sector. Fortunately, the Government is already making licensing more flexible in order to increase production and thereby reduce dependence and prices. Thirdly, I would like to know whether you will accept to vote in favour of the Liberal Initiative for a lower ISP than the PS Government proposes. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u160	To reply, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, registering the questions that the honourable Members have asked me. Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira, Mr. Jorge Galveias and Mr. Bernardo Blanco, and before answering these questions, I would like to make a comment to all of Mr. Members, who, a few years ago, spoke well in sanitary cords and extreme-rights. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] Here is the explanation regarding the attitude, today, of those who despise the population, of those who despise the understanding of the concrete reality of people's lives and take advantage of the discussion about the increase in the cost of living, the grueling difficulties that the Portuguese face,... [[PCP applause.]] ...to make provocations and transform the debate into a pollution we will not join, in which we will not participate or to which we will not contribute. [[PCP applause.]] [[CH and IL protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u162	You support North Korea! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u163	We must not fail to note that the question of speculative practice today in relation to economic groups, oil groups and the large distribution, Mr Paulo Rios, is being observed in concrete terms. And the worst blindness, the ideological blindness, is that of whom you don't want to see it, when you can't verify and observe in concrete that even at times when the raw material, the oil barrel, has reached record values, even above what you are currently practicing, never, in those days, the price of gasoline or gas oil has reached 2, 20 €. It never happened! And we had the oil representatives in Portugal saying that it was due to the psychological effect caused by the war that was being found that, in the same week, the very fuel that had been refined months before was increasing price and shooting for truly exorbitant values. Isn't this speculation, sir? Oh, my God! Is this not a practice of taking advantage of war and sanctions by economic groups, such as, at the same time, distributing dividends of billions of euros? Oh, my God! That is what we are talking about, when we talk about taking advantage of the already difficult situation, of the war and the sanctions that apply, in favour of some economic interests. And what? Look, the economic groups of the large distribution, such dependent subsidies, which have, in this House, their advocates and spokesmen, who cry against wage increases, at the same time requiring a reduction in government taxes and subsidies to compensate for the investment they do not make, because they give money to shareholders and increase their administrators, of course, because that is how it happens.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u164	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u165	So, when there comes the little habit, of less IRC (tax on the income of the public) for the economic groups, they know exactly what doors they are going to hit: it's on the side there! Then you may well ask the CFP if you agree, which you know very well what the answer is, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u166	What about the answers? Oh, my God! It was about IRS, not about IRC!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u167	Zero answers!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u168	For a political declaration on behalf of the Left Block, Mrs Joana Mortagua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As long as the horrors of war concentrate on media attention and our outrage, we must be able, without diverting our eyes, for a second that is from Ukraine, not to ignore problems that in other circumstances would occupy television. I'm talking about topics as important as education, where we have the responsibility to ask a question: do we know what happens in schools? Soon will begin the final period of the academic year of 2021 - 2022. A child who is now finishing 1. the cycle, at best, will have memory of a first year different from the rest and, at worst, will not recognize the face of your teacher. A teenager who ends now on 2nd. the cycle never saw the face of a single teacher or a colleague inside the classroom. And the odds that a young high school student has had half the social experiences he's supposed to have at his age are not very great. So when we ask what happens in schools, the pandemic is at the top of the worries. Over the past few years, we have been guided by science and caution—I believe that at least by the majority of us—the decisions on closing and reopening schools. Although we did not all agree on the investment needed to open schools in security — as happened with the question of operational assistants and the moment of hiring — it was relatively unanimous, among all, that the damage of closing schools would be more lasting, deeper and more traumatic than the effects of a controlled pandemic. The same appeal is now made in relation to masks in schools. The necessary measures are taken to clear the rooms and distance, protect the most vulnerable students and teachers, but do not impose a faceless gift on a generation. With the majority of the vaccinated school population, the decision on maintaining the use of masks in schools cannot be reduced to a question of Rt and communicable index. Being masked in school is not the same as being masked in the shopping center, because in reverse the risk of contagion are emotional, mental, developmental, learning, speech, reading or writing damage. In the reverse of the contagion is fatigue, anxiety and lack of concentration, not only of students, but also of teachers.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u170	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u171	And, yes, protecting the ability to learn and the healthy development of children is even a matter of health and well-being. For this reason Filinto Lima, president of the school directors' association, called him « mordace», not because he did not recognize the importance of masks, but because he knew that they made communication between teachers and students difficult. For this reason, the school community knows that the use of masks in schools is not a "small effort", on the contrary, it is a risk that must be well assessed, because the longer it takes more harm. With scientific and precautionary criteria, as always, we appeal to the Government not to treat this matter lightly, until in other matters we know that this train has already departed. At the end of the 2nd. the period was 30 000 students without a teacher at least one of the disciplines. In the coming year, there will be about 110,000 students without a teacher, according to a study conducted by an old director of the Directorate-General for Education Statistics. The list of disciplines is extensive: it includes English, Mathematics, Biology and Geology, but also Physics, Chemistry, History, Informatics and increasingly disciplines. Only this year, until May, will 861 reformed teachers, and no one replaces them. The problem is seen, the studies are demolitional and the forecast is an announced catastrophe. So I ask: do we know what is going on in schools? How many students are going to start 3. the classless period for lack of teachers? How can this problem be solved immediately? Let me set the example of a teacher I spoke to yesterday. His name is Cristina, he lives in Almodóvar and every day he's going to teach the Mertola. It is almost 100 km per day and, in the days that run, it means at least 40 € per month in fuel. We are still talking about cohesion here today; I don't know if this is how cohesion is built on the right to education. In the debate of the Government Programme, Mr Prime Minister, who has always rejected that the key to the lack of teachers was in low wages and cost of expenditure, guaranteed that the inflation that will consume these same wages is only transient. At the time, I asked him: how many students is it acceptable for them to remain "transitionally" without classes, because teachers remained "transitionally" without money to pay for transport or housing expenses? And how long does this transitory last? The same is true about the masks. Schools have to go back to normal. Normality is not absence of adversity; normality is good educational practice, it is preparation, it is investment; normality is there are teachers for all disciplines, teachers whose face students know. Normality will be to welcome in our schools all Ukrainian children fleeing the war. And again, the problem will never be your arrival, nor the number in which they arrive, but the government's ability to provide schools of Portuguese teachers and human resources to accompany these children.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u172	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u173	I will finish, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a matter of saving the school year or launching large epics. As far as school is concerned, it is only about returning to normality. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u174	The Bureau shall record four entries for requests for clarification to the honourable Member and shall be informed that the honourable Member shall answer in blocks of two. Thus, the first request for clarification will belong to the CFP, which is why Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Joana Mortágua, I would like to congratulate you on the topic you brought in the political statement that you gave and to say that, if there is anything that is evidence of the epidemic situation with which the country has been confronted and the consequences of this same situation in schools, it is indeed the profound negative consequences on the teaching/learning process of children and young people and also the accentuation of many of the inequalities that have already existed, and that have been deeply aggravated by the epidemic reality. And one of the main problems that we are actually facing today in public school, and the honourable Member also mentioned this in the intervention she did, has to do with the lack of teachers in our country's schools, the problem for which the CFP has been alerting for several years. There will be about 30 000 students who at present do not have all teachers of all disciplines and there is a risk of exponential and significant increase in this number if no concrete and immediate measures are taken that effectively respond to this need. Much can be said of learning recovery plans, which these same plans are barring in this reality: there is no new learning or recovery of any other type of learning without teachers in the classrooms, and this naturally means the harm of those students, children and young people, who have been subject, over the past two and a half years, to a reality of instability and uncertainty also in their school course, with all the negative consequences that this brings to their individual development and our collective development. And it is also clear that this lack of teachers we feel today is inseparable from a deep socio-laboral devaluation of this profession, in a responsibility that is shared by successive governments, PS and PSD,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u176	And the PCP doesn't vote? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u177	...including the latest PS governments, which could have, in fact, solved this situation—and the CFP presented several concrete proposals for this — but they chose to ignore the problem and let this situation actually worsen. For us, it is clear that it is inappropriate to hire teachers to meet these needs and, at the same time, to value the teaching profession; to end the precariousness, which reaches more than 20,000 teachers; to ensure their linkage in schools; to create incentives for the relocation of teachers to the most deprived regions; to solve, including, problems that have long been traced...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u178	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u179	Even to finish, Mr. President. As I said, it is unacceptable to hire teachers to solve, including long-standing problems, including career progression, time counting, career replacement and proper organization of work, and, of course, access to retirement and the need to solve this problem for many other education professionals who are also missing in public school today. Public school is the space...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u180	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u181	Even to finish, Mr. President. Public school is the space where all children, regardless of their economic, social or cultural origin, can and should study and grow together in the schools of their communities. And what we'd like to know is whether BE accompanies all these concerns that the PCP expressed here. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u182	It's always the same tape!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u183	For a request for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Cláudia André of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, or 3. the period effectively closes with two years of strong instability, instability for schools, which not only comes from the pandemic, but also the lack of teachers. It's a 3. the period in which students will certainly continue to show difficulties in following the expected learnings and will also have quite difficulty in having all their teachers. As mentioned earlier, it will be about 30 000 students who cannot have all the teachers yet, today, when we are almost finishing the school year. Many students, too, have not been able to attend their classes in person, since they are in prophylactic isolation, and still could not do so at a distance. We understand that the 3rd. the period will close with students who did not have access to support, because the government did not let schools hire more teachers so that the support could be assigned to the students and, therefore, we realize that there are students who will not have all the support they need or will need. Thus, we can conclude that the function of school, the great and the greatest function of school and education in our country, which is to offer the same opportunities to all students, will not be fulfilled... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u185	... nor will it have the end on which all of us today are debating and the end for which all those who are in schools have worked hard in recent years, and not only in the last two years. So what we are asking is the following: considering that the Left Block has also been responsible for some of the last years of governance, what is the position of the Left Block on the fact that the public school is not fulfilling its social elevator obligation for all Portuguese students? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u186	In reply, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor, which has three minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u187	Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Diana Ferreira and Mrs Cláudia André for her questions. I believe that, since they have not mentioned the issue and our concerns regarding the continuation of the use of masks in the classroom, they have no major objection to these concerns. But they asked very relevant questions here. The lack of teachers—and we have come to warn—is not only one of the greatest challenges, but the main risk that public school is facing right now. In time, it may be considered a deliberate attempt to destroy the public school, and deliberate because it has a origin. We know what the origin is, we know when the number of teachers in public school began to fall dramatically, we know very well the inheritance of the PSD government and the CDS in this matter,... [[PSD protests.]] ... but it is also true that, in the years that followed, despite all alerts, successive studies promised ended up always completing the same, i.e. that teachers were missing in schools, but they did not reach any conclusion on how to solve this problem. Mrs Diana Ferreira mentioned here a set of factors that are those that the Left Block defends and that are evident as a solution to this problem, and some are structural and long-term. The problem of the 250 000 students without a teacher—as indicated by Pordata, and it is estimated that half of the students of the 7. the 12th. the year does not have teachers all in two years' time—it will not be resolved with the promises to review the initial teacher training system. Not even the revision of the contracting system, which has already been promised, and so many times has been requested here by the Left Block, will solve the problem. What could solve the problem—as the Left Block has already proposed so many times, and it has already been mentioned here—was a system of support for displaced teachers. There are teachers in Portugal with skills. They exist, they were pushed out of the system due to lack of conditions, and under these conditions include wage conditions, career conditions and conditions to support their housing and transport costs. And in relation to these, the PSD has never been here to contribute to your vote, every time the Left Block tried to bring solutions. [[PSD protests.]] The last time we brought here a bill on support for displaced teachers, the PSD voted against. I remember when Nuno Crato said there were more teachers in Portugal. At the time, I found that there would be too many "troquists" that the former Minister of Education would be implicated. However, I heard the current leader, still leader, of the PSD, Rui Rio, say, long after that, that there were more teachers in Portugal. The problem is that the PSD has always treated teachers as if they were over and now it's amazing that they're not in the system.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u188	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u189	I will finish, Mr. President. Now, whenever you want to add your vote to the solutions that the Left Block brings here, your vote will be very welcome and so, of course, we will be able to improve the public school in Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u190	For a request for clarification, Mrs Carla Castro, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor, at least 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u191	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, something we are concerned about in this 3. the period, effectively, and that we share, is the persistence of masks in classroom. Portugal is also on this subject in the tail of Europe, and we are seriously harming the development of our children. The school is, therefore, an area of growth, development, training, social life and we are — we have already had the opportunity to say — to destroy this opportunity. And we have therefore welcomed this view as well. Thus, we ask directly whether, in this important subject of masks, we have your commitment to vote in favour of the project of the end of the mandatory masks, which we will schedule as soon as possible for this Plenary. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u192	I heard the honourable Member say that we cannot ignore education. I wanted to remember: they were part of a government solution that leveled below education... [[Applause from the IL.]] ... and that had no sense of urgency that education needs in Portugal. You also asked what's going on in our schools. I can help respond to this, recalling, again, that it was part of a six-year government solution that left the school, among other things, as follows: a school that aggravates the social gap and does not function as social mobility, as it should work; a school without freedom of choice for children and parents; teachers with an unattractive profession; students without teachers; students with masks, deprived of their development; and a learning recovery plan to fulfill. This is the 'ignorance' of the education that this government and your government have left behind. He also spoke of teachers and reform is not a surprise, it is not something that happened one day to the other. It is a reform that had long been announced as necessary and in which they were unable to bring solutions to this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u193	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u194	Finally, I hope that our future proposals will be accompanied by the effective solutions for the hiring of teachers and for solving problems in schools. I would also like to say that the example of the Lamas College has already been mentioned here. Mrs. Members, your ideological prejudices have already destroyed many futures of many children in Portugal. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u195	The next 2 minutes belong to Mr Porfirio Silva for a request for clarification on behalf of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u196	Mr President, Mrs Joana Mortágua, I would like to begin by welcoming you for bringing up the subjects of education, which are always relevant subjects, and I would like to ask you questions. Firstly, on the issue of controlling the pandemic, the masks and the measures they impose on the school, here in the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, we have always had a great deal of concern about the negative effects certain pandemic control measures have on people's lives, in particular on the lives of young people and at school, but I sincerely have a question to ask you. It is clear that there is not always an easy balance between political decision and decision of the health authorities. And there is a principle that has been adopted, which is that there is technical and scientific advice on what can be done and politics decide on this basis. For us here, on this bench, it would be completely stapofhurdious to think that it is Parliament that will vote when a mask is used and when no mask is used. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is not our understanding of political responsibility. But I admit that the honourable Member and the Left Block have a more concrete idea as to what would be the rule that, in your opinion, should be the basis for deliberations on these decisions. It's always easy, when we're wearing a mask, we're going to say that we should take off and, when we're without a mask, we're gonna say we should put on. And there were some political forces in this Parliament who behaved like this throughout the pandemic. I think the Block will not want to behave like this and therefore the question is: what is the decision criterion that the Left Block thinks should be adopted? As for the issue of the lack of teachers, we all know that this is an important problem, but I have the impression that some have agreed late to this problem. We are in the XV legislature and, at the end of the XIII Legislation, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group proposed to this House that I ask the National Council of Education to study various modalities to address this problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u197	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u198	I will finish, Mr. President. The Left Block, the PCP and the PSD, those who spoke on this issue today, abstained. Apparently, by the end of the XIII legislation we were aware of the problem, but it seemed that others thought it was not worth it, that they could wash their hands and abstain. How, however, has a lot changed, studied, started talking to the partners, in the previous legislature, my question, Mrs Deputy, is this: have you read the proposals contained in the Government's Programme to deal with this issue?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u199	What proposals? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u200	If you read, can you tell me what you agree with? Can you tell us what you are in disagreement with, so that we can find out if we all have a basis for dealing with this issue together? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u201	In reply, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor, which has three minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u202	Mr President, Mr Porfirio Silva, I have read, of course, but there is one problem: I have read them too often! I read in the Government Programme, I read in the electoral programme, I read in the previous Government Programme, I read in several State reports. The problem, therefore, is that I have been reading a number of proposals for many years that have never come true. In addition, they have a problem : they are proposals that promise a long-term solution and have zero short-term answers, they have zero answers that can serve 3. this year's period for 1. the next year's period for the 2nd. the next year's period. Zero answers. With regard to the masks, I would like to say to you, Mr President, that for a long time there was a scientific criterion, which had also been the criterion of caution, which had to do with the number of interns in intensive care. However, the criterion has changed, we do not know exactly how the criterion is expected until the end of the 3. the period and if it has to be adapted to the circumstances at any time. What I can tell you about this is that the criterion of the Left Block is the same as that of the directors, who consider that the masks are more in communication between teachers and students and that they should be avoided at all costs. Therefore, the criterion of the Left Block, I repeat, is the same as that of the directors. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] Mrs Carla Castro, with regard to the lack of teachers, I would like to say the following: between the ageing of the teaching class, the devaluation of teachers and the precariousness to which they are subjected, the Left Block presented here many proposals to solve the problem, we never saw that the Liberal Initiative was committed to more than promoting an education market. Mr Guimarães Pinto came here to regret having been forced to walk in public school.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u203	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u204	I, during my entire period of compulsory schooling, made a regret because I went to a school with an association contract and all I wanted was to go to public school, but the public school did not exist. When the public school was finally built, the state arrived, well, to the conclusion that it could not pay for the existence of a private school and a public school, in which students could... [[IL protests.]] If they let me finish, as I said, when the public school was finally built, the state came to the conclusion that it could not afford the existence of a private school and a public school, in which students could choose where they were going. And you know what the problem is? The problem of competition in education is that very quickly the freedom of choice of the student is transformed into freedom of choice of the school. When there is a competition market in education, the end result is that it is the school to choose the students and not the opposite, because that is how the market works, the market creates inequalities.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u205	Ask the students if they're better!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u206	Mrs Carla Castro, with regard to the masks, and as a last note, I would like to say the following: now, we agree, yes, but we do not make this an arraial, much less a liberal arraial. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u207	For a political declaration on behalf of the NAP, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u208	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In recent days, under the complaint channel created by the Faculty of Law of the University of Lisbon, situations of harassment and discrimination still faced by students—especially students—in higher education in Portugal have come to the public. We heard that there are common phrases like « 10 minutes with me doing miracles by their note» or « with way, passersby; students also have to pamper the teachers, if you understand me». More: do we also hear absolutely unqualified reprisals and discriminations such as "you have a face of cerebral arrest" or, even, "do you not know the answer, your chin feet? Oh, my God! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Impunity cannot continue to reign in our country and those who dare to denounce behaviors such as these cannot be discriminated against and harmed either by the notes or by the award of scholarships, which, even with these complaints, have been denied them. So they also destroy dreams of a life and self-confidence and self-esteem of students and students. These accounts and phrases show, however, something that unfortunately does not surprise us: the systematic, structural and normalized existence of sexual and moral harassment in Portugal still so dominated by patriarchy. this was done in higher education, but these stories, which were reported throughout these days, could have occurred in any workplace, on the street, in a social network or in any context that any or any of us also attends. Since early on, women have been taught to perceive and accept harassment as a compliment, a harmless joke, to which they should respond with sympathy, even when it strikes discomfort, insecurity, fear and anxiety, whether fear of being assaulted, fear of losing work or even fear of shambar, in the educational context. The most recent report presented to us by the United Nations Population Fund in 2021 noted that almost half, I repeat, nearly half of the women in the 57 reporting countries do not have the power and ability to decide on their own bodies, are afraid of violence or have someone who decides for them. A serious debate on sexual harassment takes place with the deconstruction of normalizations of harassment and sexual violence itself, representations that are not real; it becomes abandoned, including the accepted figure of "Latin male" or of those who think that the woman's place is at home; it is abandoned by the excusability of sexual impulses as normal reactions to the way a woman presents herself. This is done, regardless of the clothing used, makeup, place, nationality, profession or, as important as that, regardless of who the aggressor is. The response to sexual violence can never go through the continuity of social normalization or absolute balloting of the victim, as we have witnessed even in some recent sentences, but by predicting the crime and its effective condemnation. And prevention is also not done by guilt, limitation and oppression of women, but by training in schools and in working contexts, also addressed to criminal police bodies, judicial magistrates and the Public Prosecutor's Office, and by implementing codes of conduct. This is because society cannot and should not sustain any more misogynistic justice, marked by toxic machismo, which systematically acquits the aggressor and blames the victim for the violence he has suffered, because after all we always used the decoit or left with that minisage. We must also not forget that it is a violation of the fundamental rights of the victim and, indeed, of fundamental rights of all of us, women, of a wide range that extends from the right to integrity to the right to work itself. It is a crime that conditions access to employment, job maintenance, professional promotion, and creates a hostile and intimidating work environment, to which it hardly resists. And when this crime is practised in the workplace, when the victim lives dependent, for his economic survival and that of his own family, we well know that, often, he does not defend himself or even present such a due complaint. We cannot therefore ignore that this is a serious social problem with serious damage to the life of the victim, particularly psychological, economic and social damage. The consequences that are often mentioned by the victims, especially in continued cases, are depression, anxiety, reduced productivity at work, insomnias, among many other sequels that are left for life. Despite all this, sexual harassment has no autonomous provision in the Portuguese Penal Code. However, an euphemism is expected: sexual importunation. This figure itself is covered with too broad, indeterminate and of such diverse nature and gravity. In fact, it is currently the legal norm that is almost always used when it comes to sexual harassment, and that is not enough. Otherwise, let's see, ladies and gentlemen. Members: over the past five years, the Public Prosecutor's Office has instituted more than 4000 investigations into the crime of sexual importation, which covers cases of sexual harassment and exhibitionist acts, but of these more than 4000 investigations, I repeat only 515 charges, i.e., the charges concern only 10 % of the total number of cases in place. As legislators, we cannot remain indifferent to this reality. For this reason, the NAP has introduced an initiative that proposes the empowerment and forecasting of the crime of sexual harassment, in the same way as in other countries, such as France and Spain, also seeking to extend and aggravate the crime of sexual harassment, when the same occurs in labour relations, teachers or service delivery, and, of course, sexual harassment at work is not limited to whether or not there is a contract of work or legal subordination. In addition, the NAP also proposes that the Government seriously bet on the creation of open channels, as happened at the University of Lisbon Faculty of Law, for the reporting of harassment, discrimination and bullying behaviours in educational establishments and workplaces and that the implementation of codes of conduct to prevent and combat sexual harassment is mandatory. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: No one should be forced to live with fear and anxiety, leave his work or give up the course of his life and his dreams. Sexual harassment is something that has to stop being part of girls and women's daily lives. But...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u209	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u210	I really am concluding, Mr President. More: we must ensure that we fight all forms of violence, particularly sexual violence, and promote respect for such a simple and basic rule: "It is my body, it is my rules! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u211	Mrs. Deputy, three Members have signed up. Members for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u212	I will answer in block, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u213	All right, Mrs. Deputy. The first request for clarification belongs to Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u214	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mrs Inês de Sousa Real on bringing this issue to debate today, for the worst reasons, but for the greatest reason. On this point, there are two aspects that we would like to address and question, in order to know your understanding. On the one hand, the idea that it is necessary to ensure, wherever it is, that what is responsible for justice has to be dealt with by justice and, therefore, if we are faced with crimes, and we are not only talking about crimes of sexual harassment, we also talk about racism, xenophobia, various forms of discrimination and importunation, these cases have to have the treatment that the crimes must have, i.e., the appropriate treatment in view of their seriousness. On the other hand, there is also, of course, a component of the disciplinary component of the institutions themselves, which must be given sufficient time to function and so that these cases do not repeat themselves with silence, which is the component of the institutions themselves, ensure, on the one hand, a transparent assessment, with objective and reliable criteria, that there is confidence, and on the other hand, support services for students. I recall that, at the University of Lisbon, the first consultation of psychology takes almost two years to be marked, which removes the ability not only of the victims to report but also, later, to do their therapeutic and recovery process. To conclude, Mrs. Member, and more generally, about the violence that is committed against women, and sexual violence in particular, we know that there are factors that determine it. It is therefore absolutely essential that a policy be taken to promote women's self-determination, based on the real promotion and realization of their rights. But there must also, in fact, be a fight against wrong representations about women.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u215	Mrs. Deputy, you have to do the right thing to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u216	Even to finish, I would like to ask whether you agree with us, in the sense that there must be a strengthening of the criminal police, justice and victim support mechanisms. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u217	Two more were signed up. Members for requests for clarification, and the Bureau was informed that Mrs Inês de Sousa Real will answer two blocks, one in three and the other in two. I would like to ask everyone for maximum restraint, within the prescribed time, and I give the floor to request clarification, on behalf of the Arrival, to Mrs Rita Matias.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u218	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, first of all, thank you for bringing this important issue. In fact, according to the UN ( United Nations ), one in three women in the world suffers from sexual or physical violence, and harassment is one of these forms of violence. It is also the most common way of violating human rights, but the least denounced. on our part, it is a crime that deserves all repudiation and condemnation. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u219	And because we talk about women and we do it for the first time, here, in this House and in this Parliament, let me strengthen the confidence of the Portuguese and say that if, before, they could count on André Ventura, now, they can count on 11 more Members, who will not make women mere objects, like other political forces sitting here,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u220	... that they take themselves as women's defenders, but look at them only when they are able and according to their limited ideological lenses and, in some cases, perverse. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The arrival has always been fought for greater protection from victims of sexual crimes and, including, already in this legislature, we have introduced initiatives relating to domestic violence, which is clearly one of our priorities. Before I put my question, I told him, as an example, that, in the past legislature, the arrival proposed the escalation of criminal frameworks for crimes of rape and against sexual freedom. What was the position of the NAP? Abstention! [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u221	That is why what the Portuguese today want to realize, here in this House, is what they can actually expect from the NAP, what will be the position they will adopt. Will it perpetuate the sanitary cords to arrive, like the extreme left, in this Parliament, or will it have the courage to follow the arrival in its proposals that effectively aim to protect the victims rather than the aggressors? Oh, my God! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u222	For a request for clarification on behalf of BE, Mrs Joana Mortágua has the floor, no more than 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u223	Mr President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, this matter is of the greatest importance and has reached the present and the news, due to the case of the Faculty of Law. From now on, I tell you that the Left Block is available to work on what will become a unique channel for complaints of all types of harassment in educational institutions in Portugal, complaints that are often difficult to do within the institution, because of various constraints, but that, if there is a single institutional channel, will be made. We are also available to take further the expansion of the crime of sexual import, bringing it closer to the definition of the Istanbul Convention for sexual harassment, and to provide for the punishment of these crimes, which must be recognized as crimes. We know, however, that there is a problem in society, related to the impunity of these crimes, which is the social legitimacy of them. That is, often, the justification for harassment, the justification for violence, the justification for gender prejudice is linked to the visions of women. What women have done or ceased to do is to justify the harassment, to justify the violation, as has happened in a recent judgment of the Court of Port Relations, which said that for a couple not to have sex, sexual violence within marriage and domestic violence was justified. This legitimacy is determined by certain views of women and reproduced by their ways of being. I do not forget Mr André Ventura's comment on Marisa Matias' red lipstick. I don't forget! [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u224	And I also do not forget how such comments have often helped to reproduce gender prejudice and violence against women, to the detriment of their emancipation and their empowerment. [[CH protests.]] So, yes, we will continue, with great pleasure, using red lipstick. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u225	To reply, no more than 3 minutes, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u226	Mr President, I thank Mrs Alma Rivera, Mrs Rita Martins... [[Mattias!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u227	I'm sorry, Matias. As I was saying, I thank Mrs Alma Rivera, Rita Matias and Joana Mortagua for the questions raised. Of course, Mrs Alma Rivera, the NAP fully monitors the need for the strengthening of criminal police bodies and also the means of justice, so that the law can effectively be applied in good time. The delay of the proceedings hampers the fact that justice is done. I say more: we have already presented several initiatives for strengthening shelters, such as the houses Júlia and Maria, which exist in the district of Lisbon. We know that the initiative is being extended, for example, to the district of Porto, but this is insufficient to cover the entire national territory, in particular where there are more black figures, as is the case with the Autonomous Region of the Azores. On the other hand, Mrs Rita Matias, I cannot fail to tell you that the NAP obviously follows any initiative aimed at an effective advancement in women's rights. The NAP also presented a proposal. The honourable Member was not in the past legislature, so she will probably not be aware of the difference between the proposal of the Arrival and the proposal of the NAP, which in our view effectively followed what the Portuguese Victim Support Association itself ( the Portuguese Association) had come to claim on women's rights, something which the proposal of the Arrival did not contain. hence, in terms of abstention and we have submitted our own proposal. But I can't help but tell you, Mrs. Member, that I imagine, then, that your party, the party you represent and that you have men who defend that women should be at home washing socks...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u228	That's right! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u229	...and not in public life and political life, has overcome this issue. [[CH protests.]] It is that we in the NAP are coherent and fully defend the right of all women, without any discrimination. Mrs Joana Mortágua, I should like to point out that, of course, not only because of the judgment of the Court of Port Relations — which deserves our greatest repudiation and which, once again, indicates the perpetuation of a macho and clearly misogynistic justice — our initiative has the proposal that there be more training not only for the criminal police but also for the magistrates, because, indeed, there is the key to the prevention of this type of crime. If, on the one hand, we need to change the legislation and ensure that we have a clear framework, without uncertainty, as is currently the framework of sexual import, we need to ensure, above all, that the fight against violence against women is combated in the amount of perpetuation, which we are repeatedly losing a battle that marks the gender of women and which has, of course, taken a long time to be resolved.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u230	You still have two requests for clarification. You have the floor for a maximum of 2 minutes, Mrs. Member of the Socialist Party Cláudia Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u231	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we naturally follow the NAP in recognizing the relevance of this issue, sexual harassment, but that is practically all we have to do with the NAP. We share the concern about what is called the Nordic paradox in criminology. That is, for many years, it has been believed that the evolution of our societies in the field of equality would, on its own, contribute significantly to the reduction of gender-based violence and crimes against women. Sadly, today, we all know that this is not the case. We are therefore fully aware that new measures are needed to prevent and suppress gender-based violence, particularly sexual crimes. However, when we look at the legislative initiative that you have already entered in this House, the draft law of the NAP, we find that the answers you present are more than the same, i.e. you intend to criminalize what is already a crime and it is intended that these crimes become public in nature, which is another paradox, because a public crime is a crime in which the criminal process excludes the will of the victim for his existence. It therefore seems unreasonable to us to seek to protect victims from sexual crimes by imposing on them a criminal trial that they do not wish. [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] Despite the fact that, in this draft law, there is also a possibility of amputation security valve in the criminal process, which we will discuss in the field of specialty, however, the question that I would like to leave to you is very simple and this is this: will the PAN be available for consideration of new responses, so that it will not be forced to recognise, soon, that, as Chico Buarque sang, « the time has passed in the window and only Carolina has not seen»? That's my question. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u232	For a request for clarification, you have the floor, for a maximum of 2 minutes, Mrs Emília Cerqueira, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u233	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, I greet you for bringing this issue, because it is, in fact, important, relevant, and has entered our homes within daily, particularly because of the issue of the University of Lisbon Law School. But the issue of the University of Lisbon Faculty of Law must be a call for attention to a more cross-sectional situation, which takes place throughout the country. Gender issues, harassment, in its various aspects, are issues that the PSD has never devalued and that it has not only been remembered today. We have done a great job in this area. I must also confess that, at this point, our agreements almost end and start a discussion which has been repeated, since the previous Legislature, which is that of the obsession of the NAP in transforming personal crimes into public crimes, not respecting the will, dignity and protection of the victim himself, when he understands that he should not be exposed to a criminal process. This is a discussion that we are often ignoring and we have never come to an understanding in this matter. There must indeed be a balance of rights. For PSD, this balance is very important and once again the NAP does not take that balance into account. With regard to the question of the Istanbul Convention, Mrs Deputy, I would just like to remind you, if I do not remember, that in 2015 the amendment to the Criminal Code was made, so that the rules relating to the Istanbul Convention were in fact passed on to the national legal system. Thus, we came to have a criminal law that provided for situations of harassment in its various aspects. For the PSD, it is also very important to remind you of a small issue, which is the following: there is a need for stability in the legal systems and for laws to make their way, so that the necessary amendments are made. The NAP always comes, at any public moment, to make major legal changes, not allowing or taking into account what is the last ratio of the legal-criminal system. I should like to conclude by leaving just one question, Mr President, which concerns ourselves: we would like to know whether the NAP, rather than constantly submitting proposals, as it has been used to us over the years, repeating them, regardless of the results, will, as well as the PSD, be concerned about campaigning and creating means for sexual abuse and harassment to be effectively combated, with means, with policies, with campaigns and with awareness. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u234	To answer, for a maximum of 3 minutes, you have the floor, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u235	Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Cláudia Santos and Mrs Emília for the questions, although we have a clear understanding of the solution. Mrs Cláudia Santos, I think there is indeed a divergence in our view. It is that the honourable Member has a markedly conservative view of the amendment to the Criminal Code, which I cannot understand. I suppose you have read the proposals submitted by the NAP in its entirety: in addition to the difficulty of applying the concept of'sexual import' — which I think also the technical-legal and not only political concerns — were more than 4000 complaints made by the Public Prosecutor and, however, only 500 had any kind of accusation. Therefore, there is in fact a lack of applicability of this standard and I think it is up to the legislator to make this reflection, opening up the debate so that, in the field of specialty, one can find a way, even discussing the issue of crime to be public, because, as you have had the opportunity to mention, there is a standard-work so that it can effectively be removed from action, and we are, of course, talking about a very particular nucleus of complaints. What I ask you, Madam Member, is on which side you are, after all: whether you are on the victim's side or whether we are going to continue to perpetuate an ineffective law, because, if the debate is not done, clearly, that is what we are going to be doing. Mrs. Deputy excuses the negating of the head. I suggest that you listen to the victims, who will ask people who are subject to this kind of harassment or sexual crimes, including as regards prescription. It is that the PS has also shown resistance to the extension of prescription deadlines, when we all well know that victims have numerous resistances in presenting the complaint, due to the traumas that these types of crimes often carry. Therefore, there is a debate that has to be done seriously and that is not tied up with bricks, once again, to say that the NAP repeats initiatives or is not even making an effort for this matter to be debated seriously and for solutions to be found, because we are. I say more: we have always been available for dialogue bridges that would allow. Mrs Emília Cerqueira, I assume you have read the initiatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u236	Yes, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u237	It's just that awareness campaigns are there. So he came to ask whether the NAP is available for this path, but the answer is obvious: it is already planned. With regard to the initiative itself or at public time, Mrs Deputies, it is decided, because, of the two, one: or we are accused of being behind the moment or of being accused of repeating an initiative that we have already brought in the past and that a legislature that has been interrupted, including, has not given us the opportunity to resolve seriously. I remember what we are discussing, Mrs Member: we are discussing sexual harassment, sexual violence against women. If this should not require, of all political forces, including the PSD, an effort to present solutions, I invite you to present initiatives, because the NAP has already done so. [[In the meantime, he re-chaired Vice-President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u238	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u239	President-in-Office of the Council: The Russian invasion of Ukraine has aggravated the increase in prices of oil, natural gas and coal and has led to an increase in imports of fossil fuels, with direct consequences for consumers. Russia provides around 40 % of the natural gas consumed in Europe and is the largest exporter of oil for global markets, about 60 % of which it is imported by Europe. Russia's main source of financing for the invasion and war in Ukraine is the export of fossil fuels, facilitated by the dependence that European countries maintain, that they have let themselves be created and that, now, late and late, they try to finish with regard to Russian energy. It is estimated that Europe averages 650 million euros of fossil fuels per day from the Russian invasion of Ukraine. That is, the European Union is financing, directly and indirectly, Putin's Russia and its war effort more than it has so far promised or transferred to Ukraine, since the beginning of this war, for efforts to be of macroeconomic stability, be it of reconstruction or humanitarian emergency. The main exporters of oil, in fact, are all autocracies, of which democracies cannot depend or be held hostage. The International Energy Agency estimates that the cost of oil products for family aggregates rose by 35 % in January and February of this year in the developed economies and more than 55 % for family aggregates in developing countries. In Portugal, fossil fuels represent 76 % of the total energy consumed for direct processing or use. Despite incentives for the purchase of electric vehicles, 94 % of road transport in Portugal uses fossil fuels and our external dependence on energy is about 74 %, one of the highest values among countries belonging to the International Energy Agency. All of this means something very simple, because we could continue to quote data and statistics: it is that we do not just need to'swallow' the European economy of Russian oil, gas and coal; we need to reduce dependence on fossil fuels in Europe — point! Of course, we have problems with different causes that lead to different diagnoses about social inequalities, for example, about building housing in Portugal or about mobility, which also has different prognosis, but rare times like now, with the ecological crisis, which we have already experienced, the economic crisis, which is now worsening with the rise of inflation, and the crisis caused by the war on the European continent, we have been put before a situation in which we can act and, once and for all, try to solve several of these problems. That is why, on the first working day in this Parliament, the Free Paper presented Programme 3C—Home, comfort and climate, a plan of public investments to increase the thermal comfort in our homes, increase the dignity we live with, help lower the bill of energy and, of course, also help save the planet. But to all of this is now added another sense, to increase Europe's sovereignty and energy autonomy. We also propose that a school transport system be created, because we know that private car transportation to schools is one of the reasons why many families use the individual car every day. Portugal needs to invest and we want to see in this State budget the effort that has been made to reduce tariffs through the PART (Programme of Support for Tariff Reduction in Public Transport) also to be made in support of municipalities, inter-municipal communities and metropolitan areas for the purchase of electric vehicles for the transport of schools, older citizens and citizens with reduced mobility. Each solar panel, each electric bus, every isolation of our houses is not only a more practical and quality life, but also more energy sovereignty. Soon, ladies and gentlemen, we will discuss the situation in Ukraine and we will all condemn the war, but we must ask ourselves how it is possible in the European Union to condemn the Russian war in Putin in Ukraine and, at the same time, to be financed. That is the great moral dilemma — the hardest of all! — what we are dealing with. For this reason, during the remaining period, I would like to draw your attention to a proposal presented by the Free House today. It is a matter of undermining fossil fuel payments to Putin, making them through a trust account in a third State, and these payments would only be released in the face of the fulfilment of certain political conditions such as the withdrawal of Russian troops or a peace agreement with Ukraine. And for each day of non-compliance with these political conditions, that an increasing percentage of the funds in this trust account — created with a third State, which is not from the European Union or NATO, such as Switzerland — is redirected to a reconstruction fund in Ukraine for war reparations. This proposal has not so far been presented in any European Union Parliament and, dear and dear colleagues, if the Assembly of the Republic appoints our Government to submit it to the European Council, Portugal will be taking a major step not only to help meet our climate change objectives, through the proposals presented by the Book, and to increase European energy sovereignty, but also to ensure: that we are not financing the Putin war ; that Europe continues to fulfil its obligations in terms of payments; and, if this war continues, that the money now paid for Russian fossil fuels is going to go to a reconstruction fund for war repairs, so that we do not continue to give much more money to the perpetrators of this war than to its victim.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u240	The Bureau recorded four requests for clarification, Mr. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u241	Two to two, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u242	To request clarification, you have the floor of the only representative of the NAP, Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u243	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you from now on for bringing such an important issue to this House. The fight for energy sovereignty is, on the one hand, structural and, on the other hand, as well as pointed out, the answer to the need to stop feeding, from the financial point of view, Putin and a war caused by his government. Even because the key to solving this problem may not only be on the issue of this war, but on something no less relevant, such as the fight against energy poverty, which affects more than 2 million people in our country, who are cold in their homes because they do not have the capacity to heat them. In fact, there is no energy sovereignty without the decarbonisation process. It is essential to combat climate change, but also to mitigate the social and structural inequalities that persist in the country. In the view of the NAP, we cannot have climate setbacks before the moment we live before, we believe that these must be allied in the acceleration of a process of energy transition and diversification of energy sources themselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u244	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u245	I shall indeed conclude, Madam President. in this sense, given that at this time we can promote and develop renewable energy communities, as well as the production of energy in public buildings, and improve the energy efficiency of dwellings in the transposition of the directive itself of renewable energy, the question I put to you, honourable Member, is to know whether or not it is available to follow the improvement of the Efficient Value — which is now more worth 'inefficiency', taking into account the bureaucracies which hinder people from having access to it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u246	To make a request for clarification, Mr Hugo Pires of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u247	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rui Tavares, I apologize to you for being behind your back and I greet you on the subject you have brought. Yes, this barbaric act of Russia has exposed the energy dependence of many countries in Europe to that country. Fortunately, Portugal is one of the least energy-dependent countries in relation to Russia, for two very simple reasons : firstly because of the geographical issue and secondly because Portugal has also bet on the energy transition and its natural resources, already producing about 60 % of its electricity through renewable sources. This is a work that is due to the governments of the Socialist Party, which were the first to accept worldwide the commitment to carbon neutrality and which have since put forward an environmental policy to combat climate change, continuing for carbon neutrality. Yes, we must bet on the energy transition and our natural resources, we must ensure our energy security and autonomy and thus also contribute to the decarbonization of our society. I would like to remind you that the governments of the Socialist Party have implemented a number of measures, such as the PART, in social passes, an absolutely extraordinary measure that has reduced carbon emissions and alleviated family budgets. But I also recall that the Social Democratic Party and the right voted against this structural measure in the way of carbon neutrality. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u248	I also agree with the second part of your proposal, which I think needs to be analysed. It is a creative proposal and must deserve our full attention, in support and solidarity with the Ukrainian people. in this measure I would like to recall that in the European Parliament, with regard to a EUR 1200 million support for Ukraine, a party from this House abstained, the Left Block, and another voted against, the CFP. I would like to know what the Book feels about this European Parliament aid package. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u249	In reply, Mr Rui Tavares of the Free House has the floor, which has three minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u250	Mr President, Dear colleagues, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN, and Mr Hugo Pires, of the PS, thank you very much for your questions, which allow us to move this debate forward. I believe that Mrs Inês de Sousa Real is right: the cold that happens at home, that in Portugal is more than any other country in Western Europe, is the symptom of a problem that other countries have already solved and that we have not solved. In addition, Portugal is the second country of the European Union, immediately following Bulgaria – whose President today visits us – in which more people say that they have no money to be able to warm up properly in winter. And to this we could also add excessive deaths due to excessive heat inside the house in the summer. Obviously, the programs we have are not reaching the lowest-income classes and that is a central problem, because they do not make the full reimbursement of expenses made at home and also because they only do the reimbursement after the people have made the expenses. Thus, people have no income available to save — which is the tragic in this story. If they could invest now, then they would spend less on electricity and gas bills, but since they don't have that money to move forward, the truth is they're going to continue spending more. Even more tragic is that many people will continue to warm up with unsafe methods, which we know of our childhood in the villages of the interior of this country, such as the brewers and sometimes the sardines grillers. The truth is, in this year of 2022, we already have victims to lament, not only in the interior, but also in the metropolitan areas of Porto and Lisbon. We cannot continue to accept that in our country we die because we cannot properly warm up the house in winter. What do you need to do? It is necessary to repay everything, because with this we will certainly be increasing the comfort of people at home, but also saving energy. It is also necessary to repay more than what is spent to dynamize this sector of the economy. For this reason, in Programme 3C, the Free Paper proposes 100 % reimbursement through RPP funds and 10 % tax credits which help to stimulate and disbursate the economy. This is for those who know how to move in bureaucracy and what needs to be done, in technical terms, in improving houses can advance money, so that lower-income classes benefit from this dynamisation in the economic sector. Yes, every building in our metropolitan areas that has solar panels, is well isolated and has heat pumps is energy sovereignty and dignity for the people who live there. Mr Hugo Pires, with regard to his speech, in particular, I believe that the example of the ART is very important, because it has increased the income available to families. Now we have to move on to the next phase, which is to be able to make a new PART to support school transport throughout the country, because that means fewer people, every day, to drive individual cars in our cities and even more people to have freedom in their lives, in their travels, not only the school-age population as old citizens and with reduced mobility. Mr. President, I've exceeded the time I had in 10 seconds, so I'm here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u251	There are two more entries to request clarification from Mr Rui Tavares, the first of whom was Mr António Prôa, of the PSD Parliamentary Group. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u252	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rui Tavares, I welcome you for the importance and topicality of the issue that has brought us, which was already an emergency, for the fight against climate change, but which has been absolutely urgent since the beginning of the war. It is worth starting with the situation in Portugal, which is 8. the country of the European Union with the greatest energy dependence from abroad. The war highlighted the fragility of Europe in terms of dependence and energy security, due to the dependence on energy of fossil origin, and stated that we have lost time — Europe, but also Portugal — in relation to the seizure of this situation. Energy interconnections have been forgotten and have only now returned to the agenda. The goal, negotiated with difficulty in the latest PSD and CDS government, has quickly disappeared and has only now been recovered. We continue to be an island of energy, much because of the inaction of the socialist government. On the other hand, the Government now announces an agreement with the Spanish Government to reduce energy costs in the Iberian market, but for years it has done nothing and only now, before this emergency, has decided to act. Mr President, the questions I have to ask you are the following: on the one hand, do you think the performance of the Government has been satisfactory in this matter? On the other hand, do you not think that Portugal could be in a more sustainable position than other European countries? I would also like to listen to the honourable Member on prudence and common sense, on the care taken to exchange dependence on non-renewable energy sources, in which Portugal does not dominate technology or adds value, which is also dependent on this, because of the lack of a national investment strategy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u253	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u254	I'm done now, Mr. President. The last question is about the care to also ensure new sources that are firm in responding to energy needs in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u255	For the last request for clarification to Mr Rui Tavares for BE, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u256	Mr President, Mr Rui Tavares, it is very transparent that I tell you that it is pleased that we see the Free in Parliament also defending energy efficiency proposals that the Left Block has been presenting over the past few years. It is important that we have more voices in this regard. But I wanted to ask you one question about energy and another about Ukraine. On energy, at a time when Portugal is one of the countries in Europe where energy poverty is most severe, does it not consider the lack of social sensitivity of EDP to be absolutely immoral, which continues to gain enormous gains and, therefore, also to be an obstacle to access to quality of life by people? Is it not absolutely immoral this performance of EDP? And this is not dually immoral when, on the Government's side, we see that, measured by measure, none of them question the fundamental, which are the abusive profits of EDP, having a monopoly position on the market? Let us see, with the new government tariff reduction proposals, EDP will be able to sell the electricity of the dams four times — I repeat, four times! — the price it sold in 2020. This is, for us, immoral. I ask you if you do not agree, Mr President, but I must ask you to take some caution for this agreement, because we already know that anyone who messs with the powerful has a change back and sometimes that change comes on the side of the PS. That is why the PS said what it said in the voice of Mr. Hugo Pires recently on the position of the Left Block in relation to Ukraine, which, as I have already said, is absolutely unequivocal. Either by ignorance—and that is more forgiving—or by the laity of false news, as used to do the extreme right, tried to invent a position of the Left Block that has nothing to do with reality. The reality, Mr President, is that we do not defend for the Ukrainian people less than we defend for Portugal and, just as we condemned the troika and the austerity packages, we also condemn them when they are directed towards the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u257	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u258	It is strange that the Socialist Party, which condemned so many atrocities of the troika, believes they are acceptable when they are made to the Ukrainian people. We don't accept that. Finally, I ask you very directly, Mr President, if you agree with the proposal that we have already entered, of solidarity with the Ukrainian people. Do you agree that there is an international response to eliminate, once and for all, a public debt that is necessarily going to grow, but that must not be paid by the Ukrainian people, which deserves this solidarity of the international community? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u259	Mr Rui Tavares, you have the floor to answer in no more than 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u260	Mr. President, Dear colleagues Antonio Prôa and Pedro Filipe Soares, there have been many questions and some deserve a clear and brief answer. If the government's performance has been satisfactory? No, we must never be satisfied. We must be more ambitious. Should we be in a position of greater sustainability? Yes, we should be in a position of greater sustainability. Should we not change the current dependence on new energies? No, we should not trade dependence on dependence. Should we look for new solid sources? Depends. Portugal must move away from easy extractivism, which, as happened in the past, creates relatively illusory cycles of wealth that do nothing for the development of the country. Portugal must try to develop by increasing the added complexity in what it produces, with greater added value and more skills of its workforce, rather than seeking extractivism, for example. That is why we are very skeptical about the exploitation of minerals in the deep sea. Dear Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, about whether I think the position of EDP is immoral, I answer: yes. On whether I think that Ukrainian debt should be forgiven, so as not to overburden a country that is already the victim of a war with the debt canga, I answer: yes. If I am aware that sometimes these positions lead to some "friend fire" within the family on the left, I answer: yes, I am perfectly aware. We have now seen an election campaign in which, at some point, the Free was accused by the PS of wanting to build nuclear power stations and the Block seconded this accusation, which, as we both know, was completely false. It was unfortunate that the convergence between these two parties was made more in this charge than in other important issues, which would prevent the Portuguese from having to go to an electoral act that they did not wish. I am taking this final minute to try to explain the proposal, which is, in essence, a nightmare of peace. The European Union is fulfilling the consumption it makes, but at the same time from day 1, none of these payments will finance Mr Putin's war effort. As soon as Russia continues to fail to comply with the deadline set by the European Council, an increasing percentage — 1 % on the first day, 2 %, 3 % and out there — of this payment is redirected to a reconstruction fund in Ukraine for war reparations in a figure of international law that has already been used in other wars on this continent. How can this distance us precisely from such a small policy of 'friendly fire' and tactical positioning to put the Portuguese Parliament in line with a debate which is strategic for Europe? Understanding — as our colleague Hugo Pires said — that, yes, Portugal has less dependence on Russia than other countries, and that is why the most obvious solution, which would be an embargo on Russian oil and gas, cannot be taken by the Council at this time, because there is a blockade by Germany. We therefore have an obligation to be creative, to be imaginative and to appoint our Government to put new proposals on the table, proposals such as this genuine peace pendant, which may lead to the debate within the European Council.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u261	We therefore close the first item on the agenda, which is devoted to political declarations. We are now coming to the second point, which is a debate on the situation in Ukraine, and let me remind all of you. Members who, in the end, will have a vote, so there will also be a necessary quorum check. in this debate, for an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mr Francisco César has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u262	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After two years of pandemic, when, finally, on the horizon, the return to normality was glimpsed, behold, we are overwhelmed by a terrible event, something which — I think not to miss the truth — most of us thought away from our time and our way of life: the return of war to Europe. Europe and the world live again in tumultuous times of profound uncertainty, where tyranny and totalitarianism again test democracy, human rights and respect for the freedom and sovereignty of peoples. It is precisely in these times of charged clouds, where, by the establishment of fear and force, if you intend to reinvigorate old and surpassed imperialist ambitions, that there cannot be the slightest hesitation about the place that belongs to each one. It is, above all, at the darkest times, when the brute force intends to undermine the freedoms, which there can be no doubt of any kind. from the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, we want our position to be absolutely clear: there are no totalitarianisms better than others. There are no more tolerable or acceptable oppressive regimes. Whether on the right or on the left, a dictator is always a dictator. [[P.S.'s applause.]] A tyrant is always a tyrant and an invasion is a declaration of war and not a special military operation. As many times as they torture the truth, there is no other way. Democrats accept no less than democracy, accept no less than full freedom and accept no less than absolute respect for popular sovereignty, expressed in free, democratic and electoral elections. in this black hour, when the Russian war machine invades a neighbor, a sovereign country, at the same time that, internally, the Kremlin lords crush the already fragile civic freedoms in their own country, Portugal reveals from the very first moment, in the front line. In the front line, in the context of the participation of the international institutions of which Portugal is part in the quest for peace and in the promotion of peaceful solutions to a conflict which, we reiterate, has only one responsible, which is the aggressor side. In the front line, too, in the prompt and generous response that the country has given to mobilising itself with hundreds of actions of solidarity, as well as in the willingness to welcome those who suffer most — thousands of war refugees, mostly women and children —, materializing and thus giving living expression to such a genuine way of being our people, who, in the face of misfortune and suffering, joins again to support, receive and help. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal has been and is at the forefront, as far as its dimension is concerned, in the necessary European consultation and also within NATO, to grant essential military material to help Ukraine fight for its survival. As I said at this dark hour, there can neither be semantic interpretations, pastist views nor, much less, loyalty or support to regimes contrary to democracy, opponents of peace and human rights violators. There is no ideology that supports or justifies the atrocities perpetrated by Russian forces in Ukraine. There are no tomorrows who sing, when the invading army causes the death of thousands of civilians, the destruction of towns and cities and other ignominies to which we can all witness on a daily basis. In the face of all that we have witnessed, in the face of the atrocious images of Bucha and those of which, in the meantime, we have knowledge in other Ukrainian towns and cities, it is urgent that the international community, in the wake of what the UN Secretary-General has already proposed, initiate an independent investigation with the aim of achieving all the responsibilities on the massacres that are taking place in Ukrainian territory. More than an issue of international law, it is, after all, the most basic and elementary human decency that imposes on us respect for life, for human rights and for civic and individual freedoms. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u263	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Tiago Moreira de Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u264	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me to start by expressing the pleasure I have in opening up in the Assembly of the Republic, and I like to redouble it under the presidency of the President. Unfortunately, the subject that justifies my intervention could not be worse and I confess that I thought it could no longer be possible in Europe of the 21st century. It should be a universal truth today the most famous one that says that « no man is so stupid to the point of preferring war to peace». Despite several times being offered peace, Russia preferred war. We have an obligation to be clear in our position: this is an illegal, unnecessary and unacceptable war. It's a war by choice, not by necessity. The actions of the Russian Federation are a very clear and intolerable attack on international order. In addition to geopolitical realities and power correlations, international order would never be complete without a set of rules, laws, institutions and even regulatory preferences that regulate and give meaning to interactions between States. From Vestephaly to Vienna, from the peace of Versailles to the Charter of the United Nations, international order has always been based on a set of normative practices and expressions of the wishes of States. International customs, treaties, international organizations and tribunals have been and are the compass for the action of States, the primo threads of their conduct and the source of their legitimacy. The international order must care both about what it is and what it should be. This normative element of order, the expression of its ideals and its ways towards peace, security and well-being of all peoples are also in the international law of the post-UN Charter. It also enshrines the sovereignty of States, multilateralism based on the proliferation of international organizations and courts, the protection of human rights, the rules on the conduct of war and the punishment of crimes against humanity. If there is no world police, nor does there cease to be rules of the game, considering incentives for the perpetrators and punishments for the offenders. The actions of the Russian Federation are clear and unequivocal in their violation of the basic rules, norms and laws of international order and therefore have to suffer exemplary punishment. It has not been, it is not, nor will it be in question the legitimacy of the sanctions imposed by the international community on Russia, but we cannot stand in the middle of the bridge. The maintenance of partial sanctions only contributes to prolonging war, human suffering and international insecurity, so it is urgent to bring sanctions to its last consequences, reaching Putin's regime in its political hard core and reaching its economy in the backbone: oil and gas. A state founded on corruption falls when there is no more money to buy loyalty. It must be hard, because Putin only understands the language of strength and power. Putin advanced on Ukraine because he judged us weak. It is time to show you the opposite, that we are strong, united and determined to halt the battle for peace, democracy and freedom. The images that come to us from Bucha and other places on the path of the Russian withdrawal from northern Ukraine shock us as an attack on the most sacred reduced human dignity and remind us of some of the blackest pages in history of the past century. Let us be clear, these are repugnant atrocities and very serious international crimes. An international investigation will determine whether they are crimes against humanity or war crimes, as well as their perpetrators, but indifference is unacceptable and a strong condemnation of these atrocities is the only ethical path. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Some have tried to pass the idea that this is a war between Russia and the West, but it is not. This is a war between Russia and the values of humanity. Russia is disturbed by democracy, freedom, pluralism, the rule of law, human rights and minority rights. They disturb humanist values and principles. We, Portuguese, Europeans, humanists and cosmopolitans, must be soldiers in the fight for everything we believe in and that has cost us so much to achieve. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u265	For an intervention on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u266	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate does not bring us here for good reasons, and therefore on the side of the Arrival, condemnation is unequivocal. This is a brutal and illegal war, whose perpetrators and authors must be severely punished. Yes, there is no false news that others in the far left of Parliament have chosen to abstain and vote against in respect of support for Ukraine in the last resolution. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It's the pure truth! The Block does not like to listen, but it has to listen because it is true, as it is also true that, a few months ago, there were two parties in this House that said: "Geting out of NATO is imperative. Do not keep on seeking. ” Today, in the face of a Russian aggression, we know that NATO is the only support force that can save us, but here they are, saying that we should leave NATO, that we should abandon nuclear weapons, so that Putin can go through Europe all and take our freedom. If you don't like freedom, we like it and we'll fight for it. We'll be here fighting for her. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Yes, Mrs. Joana Mortagua, the lips of any color were from the opponent in the presidentials who had 3% of the votes. So there were much more women voting in a candidate named André Ventura than in a candidate who said she was so upset with red lips. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] That's the truth, Mrs. Member. It's the truth! [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] Your 3% have hurt! Open... Without hesitation, before the brute force and the annihilation of nations — Mr President, let me bring you to this debate to tell you this — it is precisely this positive Ukrainian nationalism that is allowing the struggle every day, on every street, in every village, at every place in Ukraine. Where Russia wants to crush, nationalism wants to fight. Where they want to destroy a homeland, there is someone who loves their homeland and wants to fight for it, and that's what we're going to continue, always, here to do. [[Congrats from the CH.]] But in the afternoon it could not end better than with the honourable Member saying that for the PS a dictator is a dictator, either on the left or on the right. I would swear that I saw the first socialist ministers of arm given to Fidel Castro, selling computers to Hugo Chávez in Venezuela, and saying that this was the way to the future of Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u267	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u268	And now they come to say that the dictator is dictator, either on the left or on the right. A little bit of shame and memory was good in Parliament — I know you don't have it, but it was useful that you had at least a little. [[PS protests.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Ukraine is under intense attack and it is up to all of us to make this defense, which is strange to a government that has someone who has given Russia the data of the activists who protested against it in front of the embassy and who is always available to host all the left-wing dictators in Lisbon — some even mount tents in the Land of Peace and can sleep there. You should be ashamed to speak in dictators, when you have brought this capital, this glorious national capital, most of the tyrants and dictators who walk through this world outside to support left-wing dictators. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there could be no greater shame than at this time when we needed a firm and strong government, having a government that presents the same State budget that it presented a few months ago in the Assembly of the Republic. In the meantime, the world has changed, entered into war, but what we're going to have is the same Budget. It's socialist austerity. If the others don't want to know, we'll be here to fight you. [[Ch's applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u269	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, Mrs Joana Cordeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u270	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In Portugal, we do not live with fear of hearing sirens, we do not live with fear that our house will be destroyed or that we will run away with our children towards an unknown country, we do not live with fear of seeing our family die in any military attack, but this is the reality of millions of people in Ukraine, whose lives have been violently turned from the bird as a result of an unacceptable aggression by Russia. at this moment, Ukrainians, in combat or with their hands tied, die because of the Russian army. The blood and tears of a people are the price to pay for peace in the rest of Europe and for Putin's expansionist fury to rebuild the Russian Empire. And, no, it is not Russia's interests for control of the Black Sea or the perception of a threat to its security—which has never been involved—by NATO explaining this second and most violent invasion of Ukraine. It is not the failure of a regime that promised prosperity and that only offers autocracy and corruption that explains this attack to a supposed enemy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u271	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u272	Don't! This unprovoked war, which is a gross violation of international law, this attack on the sovereignty of a neighbouring country, this violence against the civilian population is due to Putin's hatred for liberal democracies and free societies. [[Applause from the IL.]] As long as the Ukrainians die for theirs — and for ours! — freedom, there are in the West countries, political parties and people who, actively or in a hidden way, support the Putin regime.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u273	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u274	Explicit support or cowardly neutrality benefit the aggressor, allowing him to pursue his goals without any kind of punishment. What these idiots do not realize at Moscow's service is that tomorrow they too may be crushed by the power they defend. When that happens, who will they turn to? [[Applause from the IL.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Ukrainian bravery in the defence of its sovereignty is the first line of protection of the West and must have all our support in drastic sanctions for the aggressor, with the purpose of buying oil and gas to Russia, in the exchange of information and sending of military equipment, in the elimination of reception bureaucracies to refugees, so that they can quickly work, put their children in school or have access to health services. [[Applause from the IL.]] It is time to strengthen trade relations and security and defence policies with our allies. It is time to rebuild a safer world based on multilateralism and respect for the territorial integrity of States. Thus, without relativism or false pacifism, without primary anti-Americanism and without having to hide praise from the aggressor, in the Liberal Initiative, we unequivocally condemn all massacres in Ukrainian territory and do not hesitate to support Ukraine in its fight for freedom. Ukraine fights for us, we know it's up to it. [[IL applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u275	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u276	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since 2014 the CFP has denounced the war in Ukraine and its dramatic consequences for the Ukrainian people, calling for peace and respect for life, for the political, cultural, economic and social rights of all Ukrainians, without any discrimination. In addition, this Parliament had the opportunity to take a decision for the first time, condemning the war in Ukraine, on 25 July 2014, when, at the initiative of the CFP, a proposal for a vote was put to the debate, which was then rejected. As much as the pressure to repeat in chorus the discourse of the escalation of war, which is today imposed as a single thought, the CFP will continue firmly to defend peace, as it has defended since 2014.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u277	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u278	Therefore, the PCP condemns all the path of interference, violence and confrontation: the 2014 coup d'état, promoted by the United States of America in Ukraine,... [[CH protests.]] ... which established a xenophobic and belligerent power, Russia's recent military intervention in Ukraine and the intensification of the belligerent escalation of the United States of America, NATO and the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u279	And North Korea! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u280	Today, as yesterday, we will continue to reject the path of militaristic escalation, of the sending of increasingly sophisticated military equipment, of the imposition of sanctions, because this is the way of those who defend war, of those who do not want to stop the conflict, of whom, in fact, is indifferent to the suffering of the Ukrainian people and the Russian people. This is the way for those who want to impose the military and economic war, regardless of the destruction and the economic and social disaster that can result for those two peoples. [[Protests by Mr Rodrigo Saraiva.]] The instigation of war in Ukraine for months, or even years, as seen by the President of the United States of America or the Secretary-General of NATO, certainly at the cost of the death of Ukrainians and Russians, reveals that peace is not on its horizon. Against this path of war, the CFP will continue to defend the path of peace,... [[CH and IL protests.]] ... to affirm that it is urgent to reverse the escalation of economic confrontation and ongoing belligerent...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u281	It's a shame! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u282	... and that it is necessary to intervene in order to achieve a ceasefire and a negotiated solution, which ensures a common response to security and disarmament problems in Europe, compliance with the principles of the UN Charter, international law, the Final Act of the Helsinki Conference. It is also essential to intervene in order to stop the use of war and sanctions as a pretext to aggravate the living conditions of workers and peoples. The CFP is in solidarity with the victims of the war in Ukraine, which has lasted for eight years, and condemns all criminal acts against the populations, particularly in the war scenario, which have occurred or occurred in Ukraine, as condemned by those that have occurred or occurred in Iraq, Afghanistan, Libya or any other country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u283	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u284	In Korea, in Venezuela, in Cuba...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u285	Therefore, the CFP considers that a thorough and rigorous investigation of the situations in Ukraine is necessary, done by effectively independent entities, which contribute to the realization of the truth and not to, from false situations and manipulation operations, encourage lines of provocation to justify, from public opinion,... [[Protests of PSD, CH and IL Members.]] ... strategies for escalating confrontation, which will only lead to the escalation of conflict, the loss of more human lives, the greatest suffering, with dramatic consequences for the peoples of Ukraine and Russia, for the peoples and for peace in the world. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u286	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u287	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u288	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is no greater interference in Ukraine than the invasion by the Russian Federation of Ukrainian soil. This is what we condemn with all vehemence: the Russian invasion, justified by an imperialist and nationalist vision. As life has already shown us, there are no good imperialisms, there are no good nationalisms. Of them all the people remain hostage and in them all are the people sacrificed. Therefore, our solidarity goes, firstly, to the Ukrainian people. We are in solidarity with the defence and integrity of your territory and with your right to defence because of aggression. There are no differences or distortions here, it is the purest solidarity for those who defend their land from a foreign aggressor. It is curious to see how those who were so close to Putin are the ones who shout most in this Parliament. To hide what? To hide what we all saw and that we all remember: André Ventura by hand given with Marine Le Pen, when she was hand given with Putin. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] We all remember seeing André Ventura hugging Matteo Salvini when he was hugging Putin. [[CH protests.]] And not by chance, Mr Ventura's friends stood at the door of Ukraine and were drowned on the borders of the country, because they were the ones who went to support Putin's crusade against the values of freedom and democracy. No, we don't forget! We do not forget those who walk hand in hand with extremism, imperialism, Putin's nationalism, and they also sit on the far right of the Portuguese Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u289	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u290	Now, with all clarity, I wanted to say that we have not forgotten the history of wars over the past few decades, nor have we forgotten how so many and so many times those who were said to be the bombs of peace have only served to sacrifice the people. This is the most recent war in Europe, but the previous war was equally brutal. It was in the former Yugoslavia and some — many — of the bombs that arrived there were NATO. That is why we do not forget how often the justification of a war for peace serves only and only to destroy the peoples. That's what we saw in the former Yugoslavia. That is why, on behalf of peace, on behalf of the defence to which the Ukrainian people have the right, on behalf of a European defence policy which is not subject to a non-European foreign country that we have raised. It is in the name of democracy, in the name of human rights. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u291	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u292	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We cannot turn our faces to crimes against humanity that are taking place in Ukraine. We cannot tolerate the invasion of a sovereign country and, less so, see common fences, arbitrary executions in mass, torture, sexual violence or the bombing of schools and hospitals and let all of this pass away. This violates Ukraine's right to decide its own destiny and also violates international humanitarian law. Therefore, just as you have already been able to approve the coming of Zelenskyy to this Parliament, the NAP has proposed an initiative in which our country states that the planet needs peace and formally condemns the barbarium of Putin Russia in Ukraine. But we should not be left alone for the symbolic gestures. How many more massacres will be necessary for the European Union to stop, once and for all, helping Putin to stop his war with the purchase of Russian gas? The embargo on Russian gas is more than necessary, since every day they are leaving the European Union for the safes of Russia 600 million euros, which allow them to produce 400 new tanks and, of course, other war material. For this reason, more than just diplomatic gestures, lack of action and also Portugal is required to forgive the public debt to the Ukrainian people, thus helping to rebuild that country and restore peace.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u293	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u294	Mr President, Dear colleagues : in this House we talk to each other and we hear each other, but we also talk out there, and I want to talk to our fellow citizens, our friends, in particular to the young people, who are the most dynamic part of society, of all political families, including my own, on the left. If you are anti-imperialist, Putin is your enemy, because there is no more clear, nude and cruel example of imperialism in the 21st century than that of Putin Russia by invading Ukraine. If you're anti-colonist, Putin is your enemy, because he treats Ukraine and Belarus as colonies. If you are anti-populist, anti-demagogue, anti-authoritarian, against all those who have been financed by Putin's Russia, such as Marine Le Pen and Salvini, against those who come for these debates more to make domestic politics and attacks of low politics than to solidarity with the Ukrainian peoples or those who have chosen the groups of Salvini and Le Pen in the European Parliament, Putin is your enemy. If you are anti-plutocrat and anti-oligarch, if you are against the sale of gold visas in Russia, Putin is your enemy, and in that case you can help defeat him. How? Not accepting ambiguities in political discourse, demanding clarity from European leaders and unity before Russian imperialism, demanding that war criminals be judged and, above all, not accepting misinformation about what actually happened in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u295	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u296	I shall conclude, Mr President. Since he decided to overthrow a government that did not want to come closer to Europe, since he held elections in which he chose candidates who were not the ones Putin wanted, Ukraine has never been quiet again. She was mutilated, she was assaulted and she continues to be, and so Putin needs to lose. [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u297	Mr Andre Ventura has the floor for one speech, which still has 13 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u298	Mr President, I would just like to tell Mr Pedro Filipe Soares and Mr Rui Tavares that they were not Marine Le Pen and Salvini who said that they criticized the sanctions to Russia and the shipment of weapons to Ukraine. You know who it was, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? It was Podemos, with whom you were given arm in Spain and the kisses in Lisbon. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u299	Me? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u300	These were the ones who condemned the invasion of Ukraine, those who walked hand in hand with Putin and those who went to receive money from the Russian regime. [[Protests of BE and L.]] By the way, for your memory to be preserved, I will tell you who voted against the condemnation of Russia in the UN : Cuba, Venezuela, North Korea and Syria. That I know, none of these countries are of extreme right, but they have one thing in common with you: they are the worst extreme left in the world. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Protests of BE and L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u301	Mr Rui Tavares asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u302	It's for honor's sake, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u303	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u304	Apparently, Mr Ventura does not know the political family in which the Free is affiliated, which is that of the European Greens, who has had a very clear attitude towards war in Ukraine and Mr Putin's autocracy. The same attitude, of course, we did not hear you, Mr President, when your allies, such as Matteo Salvini for example, were paving in the Red Square with a t-shirt printed with Vladimir Putin. He always praised him, went to meetings with him, and until today we have not heard a condemnation from the pro-putinist friends of his political family in the European Parliament. Our political family, by the way, doesn't know him! [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u305	Mr André Ventura has the floor to provide clarification, if you so understand.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u306	Mr President, it is touching to see the Socialist Party support the Free in these debates. [[CH's laughs.]] [[PS protests.]] It's touching and knows us so well! [[PS protests.]] Go on, go on! Mr Rui Tavares, I know very well what your political family is: it is the political family that can never see the dictatorships on the left and can always see those on the right; it is the political family that has repeatedly praised, in Europe, the Podemos, in the Government, in Spain; it is the political family that has even said that the Podemos was a good example in the ecology and advancement of the government. It is this Podemos who is against Russia's condemnation and who walks hand in hand with Putin. [[L Protests and PS Deputies.]] Therefore, your friends may deceive you, but you do not deceive us. It is the worst extreme left in Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u307	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u308	If you don't understand that, Mr, it's because you don't even understand which political family you are in. But I also wanted to tell you that you should look carefully at the regimes that are supporting Russia in Putin and those that in the United Nations avoid voting alongside Europe. I have already told you what you are, Mr : Cuba, Venezuela, North Korea and Syria. I have also told you who voted against Russia's condemnation in the European Union. So leave Salvini there and leave Marine Le Pen there,... [[L. Protests.]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u309	Leave it there? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u310	... which, in fact, gave a ‘ball bath’ to its candidates in the French elections. As far as I know, 24% voted in it. [[Laughs and applause from the CH.]] You know, Mr. Deputies, between the cafés in Chiado and the royal people are going a great deal of difference. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u311	Marine Le Pen—I know you don't like— gave you this today: pais! ...A chapada, open-faced and relieved, to realize that he's going to win the second round. Here we are to receive it, also in the Portuguese Parliament. May it be so and that we may receive it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u312	Putin's friend!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u313	By the way, Mr President, I have only 7 seconds to say this: when we have President Zelenskyy speaking here on the 21st day, after what we have heard today, I think the best that some political forces would do was not to be present, because they will only shame Parliament. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u314	I remember all the ladies. Members, as well as all present, who are obliged to use the mask. [[Pause.]] Thank you, Mr. Pedro dos Santos Frazão. The PSD asked for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u315	Mr President, we have 30 seconds that we would like to use in the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u316	For an intervention by the PSD, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u317	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I just wanted to record, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, that we deeply regret that we have witnessed a struggle between the extreme left and the extreme right, about whom the best or the worst dictators have, when there is a people to suffer, hospitals to be bombed, children to die, a people to fight for their freedom. [[PSD applause.]] This cannot be the message coming out of this House. We must condemn Russia's illegal invasion of Ukraine, and we must say without any lukewarmness. This is the message that the Democratic Social Party wants to leave here very clearly, in relation to the struggle for freedom of this people, which is the Ukrainian people. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u318	We shall then close this item on the agenda and then proceed to the vote. I would ask the services which operate the quorum verification system and the Members. Members to register. [[Pause.]] I ask the services to close the quorum check and present the results. [[Pause.]] We have quorum. However, I would like to ask the honourable Members. Members who have not been able to register that signal it to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u319	Mr. President, I couldn't register in time.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u320	It's noted, Mrs. Deputy. I can see that Mr Bruno Nunes, from the Czech Republic, and Mrs Berta Nunes from the PS, have not been able to register either. With the quorum, we will start the votes according to the script. We begin with the Voting Project No. 1 / XV / 1. a ( presented by the PSD ) — I regret the death of João Manuel Lobo de Araújo. As it is a former PSD Member, as is the case, Mr Fernando Negrão will do well to read the draft vote on behalf of his parliamentary group. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u321	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « The Social Democratic Party proposes to the Assembly of the Republic the approval of a vote of regret for the death of Dr. João Lobo, which took place last January 17 this year in Vila Verde, Braga. They underpin this act of public recognition political, cultural and social reasons of immense importance and significant value. from the point of view of his civic commitment to the Portuguese Nation, Dr. João Lobo was elected Member of the Assembly of the Republic in the lists of the PSD, by the electoral circle of Braga, within the framework of the XII Constitutional Legislation, having exercised his functions with complete respect for the values of political-party pluralism, without never paying his action for the slightest sign of ideological sectarianism, position that allowed him to develop a remarkable scientific, technical and political work that greatly prestigious the action of the legislator and the higher interests of the Portuguese people. The extraordinary, though brief, generosity of his deputy would be recognized by all political parties represented in the so-called legislature, without exception, when he finished his deputity and returned to Braga. And the country was served in this House, as a member of the Democratic Social Party, it also served its region, its council and its land, in the political, social and cultural aspects. He served for 17 years at the Municipal Assembly of Vila Verde, chaired the General Assembly of the Intermunicipal Cávado Community, was then President of the Bureau of the General Assembly of the Holy House of Mercy of Braga, and left a vast literary work of undeniable value, expressed in numerous titles of chronic, tale, poetic prose and very varied scientific works, particularly in the area of European law and labour law. Dr. João Lobo was a man of an unusual culture, lord of an inexhaustible personal treatment, owner of an unmatched greatness of spirit, who left, ex abrupt, the seal of his rich, multifaceted and luminous personality in the heart of all who were fortunate enough to enjoy the anointing of his altruism, his proficiency and his solidarity. And because he was a great Member, a great causidian, a great writer, a great humanist and a great friend of the Portuguese, to whom, moreover, he loved extremely, we associated ourselves, at this hour of mourning, with the thought of the Athenian philosopher Socrates, who revolutionized Western thought when he said, and I quote: ‘To achieve the friendship of a worthy person, we must develop in ourselves the qualities that we admire in that person.’ To qualify this illustrious Portuguese citizen we needed adjectives as generous, pure, loyal, complete, incorruptible, brotherly, wise, benign, gentle, genuine, but we remain only for his own name and his main name: João Lobo. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of João Manuel Lobo de Araújo, pays tribute to the lawyer, exemplary democrat, professor and humanist politician and presents sympathy to his relatives, colleagues, disciples and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u322	Thank you very much, Mr. We shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] On behalf of the entire House, I greet the relatives of Dr. João Lobo de Araújo who are present in the galleries. We turn to the vote on the draft vote No 2 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by the NAP and subscribed by IL and BE ) — Despite the death of Cesario Silva, young president of the directorate of the Académic Association of Coimbra. I would ask Mrs Palmira Maciel to read the draft vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u323	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Cesario Silva, president of the director of the Académic Association of Coimbra, died last March 12, 2022, victim of a road accident in Oliveira de Azemés. Cesario Silva was only 24 years old. He was a student of Computer Engineering at the Faculty of Science and Technology of the University of Coimbra and took office as president of the Directorate-General of the Academic Association of Coimbra in December 2021. A promising young man, connected to associationism from early on, was also president of the Center of Computer Students and member of the General Council of the University of Coimbra. Cesario Silva, who left us so prematurely, leaves a deep sense of loss to the entire academic community, to all who had the opportunity to know and to the whole country. Thus, gathered in plenary, the Assembly of the Republic shows its deep regret over the death of Cesario Silva and expresses the most heartfelt condolences to his family, friends, colleagues and the Academic Association of Coimbra. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u324	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. We shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Following the Voting Project No. 7 / XV / 1. a ( presented by CH) — Regret for the death of the Fábio Guerra PSP agent. I would ask Mr Duarte Pacheco to read the draft vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u325	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « In the morning of a Sunday, a group of PSP agents from the 64th Team of Alfragide, who were on strike in Lisbon, together with a discotheque on the 24th of July, noticed disappointments and, while fulfilling the assumptions that their priority is to ensure the safety and freedom of movement of citizens, the four agents tried to get rid of the altercations. They were barbarously assaulted following this attempt to pacify the situation and the agent Fábio Guerra, only 26 years old, natural of Covilhã, ended up being conducted in a critical state to the hospital. After a little more than 24 hours of deep gross events, the courageous agent unfortunately did not resist the severity of the injuries, having ended up dying. With deep regret, we wept the death of a young man, in this situation of extreme and unjustified violence, when he tried, as he swore, to guard for the safety of his fellow citizens. We also pay tribute and honor to all who have given their lives ‘to the service of order and in the defense of society’. Thus, and above all, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its deep regret at the death of the agent of the Fábio Guerra PSP, presenting condolences to his family, friends and colleagues with authority. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u326	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE, the PAN and the L and the abstention from the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u327	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u328	We passed the Vote Project No. 16 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by PS ) — Regret for the death of Fábio Guerra, Public Security Police Officer. Mr. Secretary-General Diogo León will do the favor of reading the draft vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u329	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « The PSP agent Fábio Guerra, natural of Covilhã, 26 years old, died last March 21, Monday, at the Hospital de São José, following violent attacks of which he was victim on March 19, 2022. According to the statement by the Public Security Police — and which stands up here — ‘ Agent Fábio Guerra has honored, up to the latest consequences, his police condition and his oath to give life, if necessary, in an extreme gesture of generosity and sense of mission’. Their courage, their dedication and their sense of mission of help to their neighbor will always remain in the memory and gratitude of the Portuguese. Thus, meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its regret at the death of Agent Fábio Guerra and conveys its most heartfelt condolences to his family, as well as to his friends and PSP professionals. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u330	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] On behalf of the whole House, I greet the family members of Agent Fábio Guerra who are present in this Chamber. We moved on to the Vote Project No. 15 / XV / 1. a ( presented by the PS ) — Regret for the death of Professor Fernando Rocha Andrade. As a former Member, I would ask Mr Filipe Neto Brandão to read the draft vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u331	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He died last February 28th, at the age of 51, at his residence in Aveiro, Fernando António Portela Roche de Andrade. Doctorate by the Faculty of Law of the University of Coimbra, where he taught, Fernando Rocha Andrade was rightly considered one of the most respected voices in the field of Public Finance, an area where he stood out and in which he had begun, in his Faculty, a work of doctrinal updating that his premature death leaves unfortunately interrupted. Since very young awake for civic and political participation, in all the functions he has performed in life, Fernando Rocha Andrade has left behind him a trail of intelligence, creativity, competence and rigor, which has enriched the admiration of all those with him who had the privilege of depriving. In the Socialist Party it incorporated multiple governing bodies, particularly the National Secretariat. Twice called to the exercise of government functions—first as Under-Secretary of State for Internal Administration, in the 17th Government, and then as Secretary of State for Tax Affairs in the 21st Government—was elected deputy by the Aveiro electoral circle in the XIII legislature. Man of solid formation and encyclopedic knowledge, alluded, as few, to such qualities a refined sense of humor and often disconcerting. He appreciated the political discussion and the confrontation of ideas and arguments, where he was invariably a dreaded opponent for the speed of his reasoning and the solidity of his arguments, never for sectarianism or diselegity, which he really hated. Confident Democratic, Fernando Rocha Andrade, above all, loved freedom and pluralism. It was the antithesis of intolerance. It will not have been by chance that, when he died, so many personalities, of the most diverse political quadrants, have exalted his qualities and regretted his loss so painfully. Fernando Rocha Andrade had rare character qualities. He was a courageous, complete, and generous man. With his death, the country, the University and the PS lose an exceptional citizen and his friends, who were many, lose an irreplaceable companion. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, invokes the memory of Fernando Rocha Andrade and presents to his family the most heartfelt condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u332	Thank you, sir. We shall proceed to the vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] I welcome the presence of the Deputy Minister for Parliamentary Affairs and the Minister for Infrastructure and Housing, who, on behalf of the Government, are also associated with this regret vote. We moved on to the Vote Project No. 31 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by the PS and the IL ), regretting the death of Antonio Reis. I request the Secretary of the Lina Lopes Bureau to read the draft vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u333	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He died on April 4th, the actor and stager António Reis, a well-known figure of Portuguese theatre and charismatic figure of the Portuguese theatre and of the city. António Reis began his theatrical activity in 1964, in the Conservatory of Porto, in the Group of Modestos, integrating himself in 1970, as a professional, in the Experimental Theatre of Porto, where he distinguished himself in unforgettable interpretations, such as the End of Festival, of Beckett, or The House of Bernarda Alba, of Lorca. In 1973, he founded in partnership with Julius Cardoso and Star of Novais the Teatral Seiva Trupe company – an active company of Portuguese cultural life over the last decades. Whether as an actor, stager, director of production or co-responsible by the company, Antonio Reis was always an eclectic artist, of great expressive capacity, having brought to the scene various pieces with stout success with the public as, among others, A Port Chalice of 1982, or Macbeth, by Shakespeare. His commitment to the theatre was a permanent, inseparable continuation of his own life. In 1990, as a member of the Seiva Trope, it integrates the team that founded the Cooperative Contemporary Academy of the Show, created in partnership with the City Hall of Porto, from which it was cooperative until its death. António Reis is also forever linked to the construction of the Teatro do Campo Alegre, currently one of the poles of the Teatro Municipal do Porto, which was between 1997 and 2013 the ‘house’ of Seiva Trope. In 2016, he said goodbye to the stage, playing the role of the Engstrand carpenter, in a production of Espectros, of Ibsen, staged by João Mota. António Reis was also one of the founders of the FITEI – Festival de Teatro de Expressão Ibérica — which led from 1989 to 2004 with a lightning that so far remains in the collective imagination, dedicating this decade as the high years of the festival. In addition to the stage, its presence also marked the screens of television and cinema, being a figure of preference in several films by Manoel de Oliveira. along the career, he was distinguished with several awards, notably the Medal of Cultural Merit of the City Hall of Porto, in 1988 ; the degree of Commander of the Order of the Child Dom Henrique, in 1995 ; the prize Lorca, of the University of Granada, in 1995 ; and the Prize of the House of Press. With his death, the Portuguese theater loses one of the largest bulk and Seiva Trope is one of its foundations. His life is inseparable from the history of the theatre of Porto and his charismatic and generous personality will be remembered by all those who have crossed with him, whether professionally or personally. Thus, meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic pays its tribute to the memory of Antonio Reis, addressing its heartfelt condolences to the family and friends, the Seiva Trope, a theatrical company that founded and where it was a major figure over 48 years, and to the entire artistic community of the city of Porto. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u334	Thank you, Mrs. Member. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Then we have the Vote Project No 25 / XV / 1. a ( presented by the PS ) — To regret the death of Jorge Silva Melo. I give the floor to Mrs Palmira Maciel's Secretary to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u335	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He died on March 14, 2022, the stagemaker, dramatist and filmmaker Jorge Silva Melo, prominent figure of Portuguese culture, who scored perennially the theatre and the cinema. Jorge Silva Melo started studies in Romanic Philology, at the Faculty of Letters of the University of Lisbon, where he joined the theatre group. In 1969, as a Fellow of the Gulbenkian Foundation, he left for England, graduating from London Film School. From back to Portugal, he founded with Luís Miguel Cintra the Teatro da Cornucopia, in 1973, where he was an actor and a stager. Seven years later, he leaves the theatrical company and will train to Berlin and later to Milan, being, respectively, disciple of Peter Stein and Giorgio Strehler. Again in Portugal, in 1995, it founded the United Artists, a company that was leading to the present and of which it was an engraver. Dramaturgo brilliant, he was the author of several pieces, including, Six Girls Three Girls, Antony, One Boy from Lisbon, I Do Not Want to Live, The Black Ship, and still from the libretto of Le Château des Carpathes, of Philippe Hersant. In the cinema, after collaboration with João César Monteiro, Paulo Rocha, António-Pedro Vasconcelos and Alberto Seixas Santos, he debuted as a director in 1980, with the film Passage—or the Meio Camino. He made several feature films, as well as documentaries dedicated to artists: Álvaro Lapa, Skapinakis, Angelo de Sousa and Fernando Lemos. Between the plays on stage and the Theatre Books, edited by the United Artists, Silva Melo was permanently affitted in young actors, revealing and burning contemporary authors. He was grateful for the Order of Freedom in 2004, in 2020, received the D. Diniz Prize, from the House of Mateus, was honoured with the Medal of Cultural Merit, in December 2021, and became an honorary doctor caused by the University of Lisbon, in April of that same year. As he once confessed in an interview, ‘a profession is little for an entire life’, so itinerance as a choice, testing multiple possibles. Undisturbed and independent spirit, creator and politically committed critic, Silva Melo lived intensely in a generous learning that knew how to reflect with joy, disappointment and courage. Thus, meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic pays tribute to Jorge Silva Melo's memory and its impact on Portuguese cultural life, addressing his heartfelt condolences to the family, friends and the United Artists, a theatre company that founded and directed. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u336	Thank you, Mrs. Member. We shall proceed to the vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We then passed to the Vote Project No. 26 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by the PSD ), regretting the death of Américo Sequeira. It is also an old Member, and I would ask Mrs Emília to seek the help of reading the draft vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u337	Mr President, I begin by greeting the family of Américo Sequeira here present to attend the presentation of this draft vote, which is of the following content: « The Social Democratic Party proposes to the Assembly of the Republic the approval of a vote of regret for the death of Dr. Américo Sequeira, which took place last March 19 of this year. Américo Sequeira devoted much of his life to the public cause, both at national and local level, he was still a high school teacher, a role that he always performed with the greatest diligence, respect and admiration of students and colleagues. He was a Member of the Assembly of the Republic in the PSD lists, by the electoral circle of Viana de Castelo, in the I, V, VI and VII legislatures, where, among many other matters, he stood out in the defence of the High-Minho and in participation in the Evental Commission for the Situation in Timor-Leste. He also held a number of positions of great responsibility at the local level, in serving as President of the Municipal Assembly of Arcos de Valdevez during the first autonomous elections, and later served as President of the Municipal Chamber of Arcos de Valdevez for three mandates from 1982 to 1993. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Américo Sequeira, as well as pays tribute to the citizen, exemplary democrat, professor and humanist politician and expresses sympathy to his relatives and the municipality of Arcos de Valdevez. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u338	Thank you, Mrs. Member. We shall proceed to the vote on this draft vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] I also greet the relatives of this former colleague, Dr. Américo Sequeira, present in the galleries, on behalf of the House. Following the Vote Project No 27 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by PS ) — I regret the death of Laura António, who would ask Secretary Palmira Maciel to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u339	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Lauro António de Carvalho Torres Corado, director, film critic, essayist, dynamizer and cultural programmer died last February 3, at the age of 79. Born in Lisbon, on August 18, 1942, licensed-CL-in-history at the Faculty of Letters of the University of Lisbon, in 1967. Since the beginning of the cinema was the hallmark of its civic and cultural intervention, being a member of the Cine Clube Universitário de Lisboa and the ABC Cine Clube de Lisboa, and beginning, in the 1960s, a collaboration as a film critic in the press, which would be extended for decades in several titles — Republic, Diário de Lisboa, Plataia, Diário de Noticias, La Capital, Se7e, The Commerce of the Port, Jornal do Fundão, among others — and that would extend to radio and television — Radio Comercial, Radio Clube Português, Antena 2 and TVI. Promoter of cinema's potential as a form of art and expression par excellence of the 20th century, its intervention as programmer of the Apollo 70 Study, which was also initiated during the dictatorship, is still for many a reference to formative, opening horizons and defending freedom through the great screen. Although its notoriety and the affection that the viewers voted for him may have resulted from his activity as a broadcaster and critic, enhanced by his television presence, his place in the history of the Seventh Art in Portugal is also made of his role as producer, director and argumentist: he has performed numerous short films, long films and television series, being especially worthy of prominence Manhã Submersa, who many consider his work more complete and achieved. throughout his life he dedicated himself to virtually all the dimensions of his art of choice. He was a programmer, director and integrated the jury of numerous festivals in Portugal and abroad — Festival Internacional de Lisboa, Festroia, Forum Azoriano de Cinema, FestiViana, Festival Internacional de Portalegre, Famafest, Cine'ECO, among others— wrote and published more than 50 works dedicated to cinema and its history, and taught at the Institut Politécnico do Porto, in IADE, at ISCES and at Universidad Nova de Lisboa. In addition, it has continuously released cycles and cinema and debate sessions in cultural and educational, formal and informal institutions throughout the country, in a framework in which the emblematic tertulia of the ‘Vá-Vá’ has always kept a special role. In 2018, he was recognized by the Portuguese Academy of Cinema with the Sophia Carreira Prize, and in the same year he was thanked with the Order of the Child D. Henrique by the President of the Republic. Poorer with its loss, the Country will retain the inspiration of its words on the role of cinema, ‘show of fraternal communication’, which must be cultivated and placed ‘at the service of man and of his future’. Thus, meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic pays its tribute to the memory of Lauro António and to his journey and legacy in the history of cinema in Portugal, addressing to his family and friends his sympathies. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u340	Thank you, Mrs. Member. We shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Before we proceed to the reading of the last draft vote we have to vote on, I would like to greet the family members of director Lauro António, here present, on behalf of the Hemicycle. We will then move on to the reading of the Vote Project No 28 / XV / 1. a ( presented by the PSD ), regretting the death of Amélia Cavalleiro Monteiro Andrade de Azevedo. As it is also an old PSD Member, I ask Mr Paulo Mota Pinto to read the draft vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u341	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Amélia Cavalleiro Monteiro Andrade de Azevedo died on January 25, 2022, at the age of 92. Natural Tabuaço, Viseu, concluded, with high classification, the degree and the master's degree in law at the University of Coimbra. Amélia de Azevedo should, above all, be remembered as a convinced and committed defender of the values of democracy and social democracy. Prior to April 25, he actively participated in the group of Catholics who formed to support the Bishop of Porto, D. António Ferreira Gomes, prevented from returning to his country and thus sentenced to exile, which was to last about 10 years. The action of this group had a great impact at the port level, but it eventually gained equal importance at the national level, by the relevant participation in initiatives such as the liberal wing and the SEDES, which aimed to promote the establishment of democracy in Portugal. After 25 April, she was one of the founders of the Social Democratic Party and the Northern Zone Teachers' Union, the General Assembly of which chaired for several years. He served as a professor of commercial law at the Higher Institute of Accounting and Administration of Porto and at the Institute of Social Service of Porto. In his political activity he was a Member of the Constituent Assembly of 1975, the first time that women were able to vote and be elected. Subsequently, she was PSD Member in I, II, III and IV Legislatures, always elected by the Port circle. He was particularly committed to education and women's rights. In the exercise of parliamentary mandates, he served as secretary of the Bureau of the Assembly, Chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, and President of the National Council for Literacy and Basic Education of Adults. At the international level, he was part of the Portuguese delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and the Portuguese delegation to the Council of Europe. in the latter, where he was from 1979 to 1987, he was Vice-President of the Committee on Education and Culture. In 1987, she accompanied her husband, also the constituent Member of Amendio de Azevedo, who I greet here, however appointed Ambassador of the European Communities in Brasilia. Six years later, on his return to Portugal, he resumed his duties as a teacher of ISCAP, until he retired. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary on 13 April 2022, approves a vote of regret for the death of Amélia de Azevedo and presents the most heartfelt condolences to his family and to all those who deeply feel his absence. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u342	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] I ask the House to accompany me in a minute of silence, in honor of all these fellow citizens and fellow citizens. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] I also welcome the presence of the relatives of Dr. Amélia Cavaleiro de Azevedo. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on an opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, for which I ask the Secretary of the Bureau, Mr Palmira Maciel, to refer.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u343	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Braga — Central Criminal Court of Guimarães — Judge 1, Case No 2457 / 19.7T9BRG, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Joaquim Barreto ( PS ) to present a statement as a witness within the scope of those cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u344	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I also announce that paragraphs 36 to 38 of the Diário are being approved for meetings of the Standing Commission held on 15, 16 and 22 March 2022. There are no objections, they are deemed to be approved. I also communicate that it is present at our plenary session, by videoconference, Mrs Rita Borges Madeira of the PS Parliamentary Group. The next plenary meeting will take place on Wednesday 20 April, and the agenda is devoted to the debate on the Stability Programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u345	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u346	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u347	Mr President, I am sorry, but it is only to signal my presence in the plenary, despite the fact that I have not been able to make the electronic record.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u348	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u349	Mr. President, if I may...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u350	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u351	Mr President, it is for the same purpose as Mr João Paulo Rebelo.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-13.u352	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. I wish, then, everyone a Good Easter and until the week. The session is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 37 minutes.]]
