ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u1	Good morning, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau welcomes all VV. Ex. Let's start our work. [[It was 10 hours and 2 minutes.]] We're asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries. They know the agenda, which has several initiatives from the parliamentary groups. We begin with the joint discussion, in general, of Bill Nos 103 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Ensures the independence of regulatory entities ( fourth amendment to the Framework Law on Regulatory Entities, as annexed to Law No 67 / 2013 of 28 August ), 112 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Rules the procedure for the dissolution of the Board of Directors of the regulatory entities and for the individual removal of their members, on the basis of justified grounds and 121 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Amend the model for the appointment of the Governing Councils of regulatory entities in order to ensure greater transparency and respect for gender equality by amending the Framework Law of Regulatory Entities. To submit Bill No. 103 / XV / 1. the, has the floor of Mrs Carla Castro, of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members:I present the draft law of the Liberal Initiative to ensure the independence of regulatory entities through the amendment to the framework law. unlike ghosts living in more preconceived heads, the Liberal Initiative defends the existence of economic regulation. The Liberal Initiative considers that it is especially necessary in sectors where there is great information asymmetry between providers and customers. It is also a pillar of these principles that regulation is independent, depoliticized and deburocratized. We defend a reform of the regulatory model with a clear separation between the political power of leaders and regulators, which simplifies and deburocates regulation and makes the regulators' performance and operation much more efficient and transparent. in this context, the independence of regulatory entities is a basic principle of liberal democracies. Only an independent regulator and political power is in a position to effectively play its role with the rigor and impartiality imposed upon it. The Liberal Initiative thus considers it essential to strengthen this independence, both in the face of the regulated, and in the face of political power. thus, the Liberal Initiative argues that the list of incompatibilities currently provided for in the framework law is strengthened, that the Framework Law of Regulatory Entities, in the range of criteria for the exercise of functions on the board of directors, is complemented in particular by an express reference to independence requirements and the absence of conflicts of interest. We also propose changes in the selection of the board of directors of regulatory entities. A proposal for a competitive procedure prior to the indication of the member of the board of directors by the member of the responsible government is envisaged. This amendment is absolutely fundamental. This procedure is based on the procedure for selecting and providing senior management, executive positions of public institutions, safeguarding the independence of regulatory entities by reducing government power to define the adequacy profile of the board of directors. The competency profile is first defined by CRESAP ( Public Administration Recruitment and Selection Board ), after consulting the regulatory entity and the board of directors, and the change of this profile by the member of the Government should be duly substantiated. We also expect the competition to be international. Why? In order to ensure the widest possible scope for candidates in charge, thus increased the level of competence and technical capacity of the administration of regulatory entities, and we believe that increasing the choice range is the essential requirement for having the best frameworks in front of regulators. Anyone wishing efficient regulation should want to have the best possible regulators, regardless of their nationality. We should not be afraid to look out of the old names. We do not follow the other legislative initiatives on this subject because, although we agree with the intention and rational, we do not agree with the concrete implementation, with the letter of the law. The adoption of initiatives would lead to greater politicization and the existence of so-called career politicians in these entities, and in our view this should not be the objective of these changes. In short, this bill seeks to ensure the independence of regulatory entities through greater rigor, greater transparency, greater independence, and increased candidacy in choosing their board of directors. This is another step, and one piece, in the reform of the Liberal Initiative of the regulatory model. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u3	Mrs Carla Castro made a request for clarification from Mr Carlos Pereira of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, which is a remarkable challenge for you, because you will have only one second to answer. [[IL rice.]] In any case, Mr. Carlos Pereira has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u4	Mr President, the question I would like to put has to do with the reading we have made of the Liberal Initiative proposal and which has caused us some perplexity and doubt, so it is in some way important for the Liberal Initiative to clarify this aspect, since it is very relevant. in this proposal to amend the form of recruitment of the members of the regulatory entities, at a certain time, the Liberal Initiative puts an article that supposedly aims to strengthen the criteria of choice of personalities. And one of the criteria it poses is independence of spirit. I confess that I have gone around with this, on what is independence of spirit and how, in fact, materialize it and make it clear, so that it is simple and not abstract, in order to be able to select whoever it is. It was therefore very important for the Liberal Initiative to define what this means. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u5	To reply as soon as possible, Mrs Carla Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u6	Mr. President, I'm going to be especially short. There is also perplexity for not knowing that it is the same formulation as for the Banco de Portugal, and I regret not having the same perplexity before all the news of the lack of independence of regulatory entities. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u7	You will now use the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Pedro Pinto, to present Bill No 112 / XV / 1. a ( CH). Mr. Pedro Pinto, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: We are still few this morning, but I am going to speak to those who are here. It is proof that 100 Members arrived perfectly, as is the proposal of the Arrival. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The draft law that the debate brings today is intended to close what, in our view, is a gap in the Framework Law of Regulatory Entities on the dissolution of the board of directors or resignation of any of its members. The members of the regulatory entities shall be indicated by the member of the Government, with a prior hearing in the Assembly of the Republic. the President of the Board of Directors shall be given strengthened powers vis-à-vis the other members, including the right of veto, also competing with the conduct of the relationship between the regulatory entity, the government and civil society. The independence of the regulatory entity cannot, at any time, be confused with the arbitrary and discretionary exercise of the regulatory authority, and this is where the internal and external control mechanisms provided for in the framework law are important. The obligation to have the plan of activities, budget and accounts approved by the Ministry of Protection, the limitation of mandates of the members of government bodies, a regime of incompatibilities and impediments not permitting and the financing by own revenue, together with the already-mentioned parliamentary scrutiny procedure, are guarantees of independence which are sufficiently relevant to gain their place in the framework law. The independence of regulatory entities to arrive is also to ensure that there is a process of removal of the members of the administrative body which is transparent and exempt. This mechanism is essential in order to be able to respond to situations of flagrant non-compliance until there is a lack of regulation of the Framework Law on Regulatory Entities as regards the definition of the independent entity of the Government to which Article 20 ( 4 ) refers. the, to which it will compete to instruct the investigation which will substantiate the termination of functions of the board of directors or of any of its members. The relevance of the functions of the administrative bodies requires particular attention to the process of termination of functions, whether collective or individual, of their members, ensuring the intervention of the Assembly of the Republic in the process of verifying the existence of a reasoned reason. However, in order to perform functions as an independent entity of the Government, to which he will compete to initiate and instruct the proceedings, at the request of this or a fifth of the Members, we consider that the most appropriate entity is the Assembly itself, independent of the Government, independent of the regulatory entities and with the means and competence to conduct such a process. To this end, a new article is added to the framework law regulating this procedure, from the outset to the realization of what will be considered justified reason, as well as the development of which conduct which is capable of justifying an application for impeachment. In short, the objective of this bill is to prevent situations of abuse and promiscuity between government and regulators. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is not surprising that the most independent regulatory entities in Portugal are precisely those in which the European Union has strong intervention. On the other hand, the least independent are those of the financial sector. We know that there is a tendency to mix political power with entities that must monitor the sector, with politicians entering their administrations or, as in other cases, from the regulatory entity to politics. Nothing more dangerous. in this matter, the Socialist Party is a specialist. They are the famous « rotating doors ». See the recent case of former Minister of the Sea, Ana Paula Vitorino, wife of Eduardo Cabrite, who was appointed to the Mobility and Transport Authority when her husband was still Minister of Internal Administration. Coincidences, they say. Promiscuity to the barefoot, we say. Promiscuity to the good socialist way! Or the case of the former Minister of Finance, Mário Centeno, who left the Government directly to the Banco de Portugal, ceases to supervise to work in the entity. And everything was done quickly, with the law to be changed to make these situations difficult — all done to shame — according to the conveniences of the Socialist Party and with the support of the extreme left, which then supported the Government of António Costa. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u9	These are situations that lead to the discredit of the political class and institutions in the eyes of the Portuguese. Perhaps that is why according to the 2021 Global Corruption Barometer, almost 90% of Portuguese believe that there is corruption in the government — 90 %! Finally, Mr President, we are convinced that this amendment to the framework law constitutes a major improvement to the existing legal regime. Another contribution to the independence of all regulatory entities is closer to clarifying their role and importance in public opinion. With such legislative amendments we strengthen democracy, we credibility regulators, competition wins, Portugal wins. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u10	You now have the word Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN, for Bill No 121 / XV / 1. a
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u11	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The NAP today brings an initiative that seeks to bring more gender equality and transparency to the Framework Law of Regulatory Entities, as we want to increase gender quotas in the board of directors of regulatory entities from 33 % to 40% in line with the recommendations with the Council of Europe. It should be said that, despite the advances made in recent years, imbalance in the number of men and women in decision-making positions has a historical and structural nature, determined by a patriarchal society. Gender quotas do not resolve these delays made by the patriarchate, but they are an important step towards achieving gender equality, as we have seen in recent years with the quotas of 33 %. On the other hand, we want and propose that the new model for the appointment of the Boards of Directors of Banco de Portugal, which was approved in 2020, on a proposal from the NAP and with the vote in favour of the PS, be applied also to regulatory entities, which, as they have a similar legal nature, also have similar risks. Therefore, we propose to block the rotating doors that have existed between regulatory entities and regulated entities, creating a period of disgust at entry, which prevents the passage of one of the top positions in regulated positions to top positions in regulators, but we also want to clarify that the period of nausea at exit applies not only in cases of exit to the regulated ones but also to companies controlled by the regulated ones, in order to avoid maneuvers that aim to circumvent the law. We also want citizens to have more information on election processes. It is here, therefore, to harmonise and ensure consistency between legislations of similar scope and, above all, to increase transparency and greater respect for the role of framework law and regulatory entities in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u12	We went to the speeches of the parliamentary groups that did not present any initiatives on this subject. For an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party, Mr João Paulo Barbosa de Melo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u13	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PPD founders shared a personalist and social-democrat matrix that continues to be at the heart of the PSD project. As it was written in 1974 in our political programme, and I will quote, "the way a society is at some point structured does not constitute a fatality that must be suffered passively. Because agents and authors of history, men can always change the society in which they live, renovating the structure". Turning away from political philosophies that were dominant at the time, the PSD already believed, and continues to believe, that there are no predetermined destinations and that we can at any time reinvent our becoming. The PSD Programme is said to have only two updates to date in 1992 and 2012. The current version continues to state, and I quote again, that « politics should promote a model of society where the State and political power are not at the service of invisible powers ». In the economy, the PSD believes in the importance of free initiative and open competition and assigns to the State, and I quote, « an indelegable role of regulator, of setting the rules of the game ». In the last 20 years, however, the Portuguese State, in line with developments in the European Union and, it is also said, tightened by financial difficulties, felt that, in some areas of high technicality, it was preferable to hand over the task of regulating and promoting transparency to independent, humanly attached entities and with sufficient strength to be respected, sometimes even feared, by market operators. It is from these entities that these three projects come to talk to us. For the PSD, the supervisory system contributes to the common good if, and only if, these entities have real administrative, financial and management autonomy and are organic and technically independent, both in relation to market operators and the partisan forces that, at each time, produce government solutions. It must be recognized that this has not always happened. When relatives of rulers or former rulers are chosen for these entities or when people working in the supervision pass on to employees of companies that recently regulated, something is not right in the supervisory system. [[PSD applause.]] The difficulties of independence in supervision have been widely studied, especially after the failure of the 2008 financial crisis. In recent years many scholars have described situations of capture of regulatory agencies by the regulators, by the political power or by such invisible powers, as the PSD Programme speaks of. in a democracy, this is unacceptable and PSD will always fight for formal and de facto independence from these institutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u14	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u15	Among other aspects, for the system to deserve public trust, the selection process of the people serving it must be above any suspicion. However, each in its own way, the three legislative initiatives in question contribute to improving these choice processes. The project of the Liberal Initiative suggests the adoption of an international procedure other than the current one; the NAP project seeks to improve gender balance in the formation of regulatory entities teams; the project of the Arrival makes more demanding the processes of removal of the bodies and leaders of these entities. We believe that all these ideas can be worked out as a specialist to improve the current framework law and, therefore, the PSD will not impermiss at this stage any of the proposals under consideration. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u16	Mr Carlos Pereira of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u17	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group would like to make a few comments on the proposals put forward, starting with the Liberal Initiative and stressing, once again, that I did not understand what would truly be independence of spirit. It seems clear to me that it is too vague to be used as a criterion for selection of whatever it is. On the other hand, in its bill, the Liberal Initiative also raises a question that has somehow left us even intrigued. It is because the Liberal Initiative has recently taken the decision to submit a request to several entities, in particular because of the selection of a non-Portuguese company — with links to Spain, which would have functions in the aviation authority in Spain — which would make the assessment of the new airport’s schedule of charges. It seems to us that it is indeed a legitimate concern about foreign interference in Portuguese interests. The idea that the selection of entities and personalities will be made by international competition can, from our point of view, counter this concern, the concern of the Liberal Initiative, because, of course, it will be more... [[IL laughter and protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u18	They've been caught in contradiction, haven't they? Oh, my God! They're foreign to some things, but not to others!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u19	I'm asking the ladies. Members of the Liberal Initiative to let the speaker hear. You may continue, Mr. Carlos Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u20	I understand they don't like attention calls, but this has to be done. They did well when they warned that there is a company which is not Portuguese and which may have decisions on the Portuguese public interest; they went wrong when they put in this decision the idea of an international competition which, above all, is exclusive to an international competition. [[Protests by Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]] What the bill says in the end is that the decision on the selection of any element for a regulator is made by international competition. It seems to me that there is a manifest contradiction on the part of the honourable Members. Members and the Liberal Initiative. [[IL protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u21	You have to go to study!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u22	The other issue, which still has to do with the selection, concerns the profile. The Liberal Initiative resolves to say that who determines the profile of the personality to be integrated into the regulator is the previous board of directors, the Governing Board. It seems contradictory to leave the profile of the next administration in the hands of the Governing Board.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u23	That's not liberal! Is it transmission? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u24	It doesn't make much sense, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed very difficult to understand. I therefore believe that there are some shortcomings in the proposals here, which, despite the good intentions — I admit — of the Liberal Initiative, do not actually add value to the need, according to the honourable Members. Members propose more independence and transparency from regulatory entities. With regard to the draft law of the Arrival, what it proposes is basically an amendment to facilitate the removal of members of the boards of directors. We understand this issue, which is already possible today, as the honourable Members do. Members know, but the Arrival proposes that it may be the Assembly of the Republic to determine such a destitution. It seems to us that this weakens the independence of regulators more than the situation we have today, in which it is indeed possible to have a destitution by indication of the government and by a hearing held in the Assembly of the Republic. So it seems to me that it does not add value either to the framework law that we have today. So in conclusion, I wanted to say that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group understands that we need to take steps to strengthen independence, transparency, and finally a set of subjects that have been put here. We are certain of that and are, of course, available for that.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u25	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u26	I'm done now, Mr. President. I would therefore like to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a draft resolution to make an assessment of the regulatory framework law in all matters which are, in fact, relevant, such as independence, transparency, gender equality, independence of political powers, and, finally, all those matters that are relevant in order to be able to make a restructuring of this law, which is neither punctual nor discretionary, because we are talking about a structured framework law and it is not worth changing point issues and not evaluating the situation in its entirety. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u27	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I was here to confirm with Mr Bruno Dias, my neighbor on the side on which day the Liberal Initiative took up here a paper with the committees and the working groups to be extinguished in the State. I think it was Wednesday. Friday comes with a proposal that inevitably increases the work of CRESAP. Now, she's going to have to be reinforced, she's going to have to move into more areas of expertise. [[Protests by IL Member Carla Castro.]] Mrs. Carla Castro, don't get angry with that. And very well, I would say, because I like the Liberal Initiative on Friday more than the Fourth.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u29	These are essential functions. You can't be confused!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u30	Now, what can't be wanting both things, want to be liberal populist on Wednesday, who say they want to extinguish working groups and commissions, and on Friday they come to say correctly that there are more countries than the choices that executives make and that it is necessary to make public competitions. [[Protests by IL Member Carla Castro.]] Madam Member, don't spend my minute with interruptions, because then your neighbors on the side are very upset about it, and I want to be able to get to the end of what I have to say in my own minute.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u31	It's over!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u32	Mr. Pedro Pinto spent a lot more time and he had five minutes. I would also like to say that if a public contest becomes deserted, another public contest is needed and, therefore, it is not just saying, above, that this means simplifying and disbursing. The Free will will not impermiss any of these proposals, but the Liberal Initiative will have to decide what kind of liberal it is that it wants to be. We expect it to be of the most civic and modern type, not of the most populist.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u33	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is an original sin in the proposal of the Liberal Initiative, because the proposal deals with the independence of regulators vis-à-vis public power and private power as equivalent, as if a regulator had, in fact, to be more independent of the public power than is regulated, which is the private power. These independences are not equidistant, they are not equivalent, for a simple reason: it is that the interests of the regulator and the public power, which are the defence of the public interest, are initially aligned, and the interests of the private are not aligned with the public interest. That is why we need a regulator independent of the private power, regardless of the capture of the private power and not independent of the public power, which is supposed to defend, and may have vices that have any democracy, any government elected. Starting from this principle, which is the original sin of the project of the Liberal Initiative, there are some points that seem important to us to highlight and we will guide our votes and the process of specialty, if we arrive at it, from these positions. First of all, the importance of the period of disgust. It must apply to regulatory movements for the private, but also private movements for the regulator, so that we do not see what happened, for example, in the Banco de Portugal, where the same people move from Banco de Portugal to consultants and consultants to Banco de Portugal, without raising a problem for the Liberal Initiative. You didn't hear much about it at the time. [[IL protests.]] Secondly, we argue that the Assembly of the Republic must have definitive power to appoint, but also to dismiss. See what happened to the Governor of Portugal: the Portuguese society, Parliament, the sector, everyone knew that the Governor was unable to stay in the Banco de Portugal and apparently there was no legal instrument for the Assembly of the Republic to remove him, mostly because it was known that he was incompetent and that he was not doing his job. Therefore, the Assembly of the Republic must have powers to appoint, but also to dismiss. No one is above democracy and that must be the rule for any regulator, regardless of any idea of independence that may be held. Finally, the submission of regulators to democracy does not mean that they are held captive by the budgetary whims of any government. If an entity is formed, if it exists, if it has a budget, it must be autonomous in order to manage the budget, without falling prey to the budgetary wills of any finance minister, who pulls out, sets up and disposes, as you understand, of a budget that is previously allocated. If you want to reduce the budget, you reduce the budget, you politically take the decision you made, you will not be making a budget to then condition the use of that money. And this rule applies to regulatory entities, as it applies to the National Health Service, as it applies to public services. It is not an issue of independence, it is a question of good governance of the public, of the capacity of autonomy and of the intervention of regulatory entities. For us, these are the essential points of the projects under discussion. We will vote in agreement with them and we will discuss these positions in the field of expertise. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u35	For an intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the reality of our country is characterized by the following: political power subordinated to economic power. Privatization and liberalization of strategic sectors, monopolies, increasingly high prices are the result of such a free market which is so much appreciated and then come here saying that more supervision is needed. Supervision does not solve, as it has never resolved in the past. The solution and the central issue are to resume the principles of our Constitution and what it refers to is the subordination of economic power to political power. Today, we discuss three bills and all intend to ensure the transparency and independence of regulatory entities. And for that, they propose amendments to legislation, without questioning the fundamental question and making believe that something is being done, but essentially everything remains the same. The Liberal Initiative provides for a competitive procedure with criteria and evaluations. In addition, the IL proposes an international competition, as if contracting outside the country was a guarantee for something, in addition to devaluing national capacities, to say, in the end, ‘if the contest becomes deserted,’ — see! — « the government appoints». One of the requirements proposed by the Liberal Initiative is the spirit independence of the members of the Governing Council. Independence of spirit will certainly be to ensure that the decision of such regulatory entities is always in favour of economic groups and capital, all in good name of the freedom of such markets, no one will remember to defend the public interest and the public control of strategic sectors of our economy! The NAP initiative, invoking the same purpose, introduces a number of amendments, in which it will only be able to integrate the board of directors who do not understand anything about it. There is a great deal of concern about the loss of individuals. You are already seeing who : from the private bank, perhaps from Altice, from Galp, from EDP ( Energies of Portugal ) or from the CTT ( Correios de Portugal ), which are threatening profits at the cost of impoverishment of the populations and degradation of the service provided. The loss of the public interest that harms the people and our country, that one, does not matter. These three initiatives prove that regulatory entities have no solution and that they are the instrument used by capital to make decisions that are useful to them. over all these years, several regulatory entities have multiplied in several areas, sectors of goods and services of great importance, which say they are strategic for the economy and for our development. And, for the creation of these regulatory entities, they always use the argument that it would be to arbitrate and harmonise contradictory interests. The regulatory entities such as the solution to liberalized market regulation are in view of this regulation: the removal of bankers in the private bank, whose invoice was paid by the Portuguese people; in energy, the costs are always rising, paid by the same ones always; telecommunications are increasingly expensive and there are areas in the country without coverage. This is only to give some examples of such regulation. The intervention of regulatory entities has proved to be totally ineffective because the regulator is captured by the regulation. And the creation of these entities corresponded to the deresponsibility of the government, moving it away from economic direction and regulation, which has affected the political decision in relation to the strategic sectors of the economy and which has led to the reconfiguration of the State, in the service of the reconstitution of monopolies. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u37	For a second intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor. It has 18 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Very briefly, I would like to say that what we do not understand is how the CFP has a defeatist attitude towards regulatory entities. We cannot accept a vision in which they think that there is no one in civil society, along with the political power and those who have already passed by the regulators, who have the capacity to be there. The honourable Member said that it will be placed in the regulatory bodies who do not understand anything, but this is to pass an attestation of incompetence to civil society and the academy, which we cannot follow.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u39	The problem is that in practice theory is different! Welcome to Portugal!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u40	We are now closing the first item on the agenda. To that end, Mrs Carla Castro of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative has the floor. It has 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, I cannot but say that the Members of the PS, the Free and the CFP have confused the dimensions. I am not going to do intent processes, I am just saying that what you mentioned, I am sorry, is not true. I maintain and reaffirm: the functions of the essential State are to be fulfilled and to be well fulfilled and the function of regulation and regulatory entities is one of them. Strengthening the independence of regulatory entities is essential so that they can fulfil their mandates, so that they are not captured by the interests of the regulators and political power. It is important that they are effective in their work and therefore have to have the essential financial resources. In addition, we have pointed out in budgetary terms that there must be no captivating activities and that the budgetary allocation for regulatory entities must be defended. This is, I repeat, one more part of this gear. But there is a very important point and I want to emphasize very much. in this debate of ideas of the regulatory model, today there was a conquest: the PS assumed the commitment to make a revision of the model of the framework law and, with it, we review the independence of regulatory entities. This means that today we have already had a liberal victory. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u42	At a time of tenderness, the Bureau addresses congratulations and congratulations to colleagues — male and female — who are now years old: Members Joana and Mariana Mortágua and Patrícia Gilvaz and Mr João Cotrim de Figueiredo, a very well chosen name, since today is the day of St. John. Congratulations! [[General applause.]] This is only proof that Parliament is not only fuelled by acidic and vigorous debates, it also has its moments of tenderness and deep humanism. We then move on to the second item on the agenda, which consists in the general assessment of Law No 12 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 884 as regards the exchange of information on third-country nationals. The government is already in the Chamber. We congratulate the Deputy Minister for Parliamentary Affairs and the Minister for Justice, Catarina Sarmento and Castro, to whom I give the floor immediately to present the bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u43	H.E. Mr. President, Mrs. Deputies and Mrs. Members: This bill transposes Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 884, amending Framework Decision 2009 / 315, as regards the exchange of information on third-country nationals and the European information system on criminal records, ECRIS, and replacing Council Decision 2009 / 316 / JHA, amending in this context Law No 37 / 2015 of 5 May approving the criminal identification law and Decree-Law No 171 / 2015 of 25 August regulating and developing the legal regime for criminal identification. This legislative initiative is part of the objective set by the European Union to ensure that its citizens have a free movement of persons, barred from internal borders, an area of freedom, security and justice. Whereas this space thus created requires adequate means to prevent and combat the phenomenon of crime, it is of particular importance to adopt uniform legislative measures within the frameworks of the Union which allow for access to information concerning convictions for the practice of crimes committed in the Member States when a new criminal case is taking place against a certain person, even in another Member State. Despite the rules already derived from the Framework Decision, the legal framework and the ECRIS did not or did not adequately respond to the particularities of applications concerning third-country nationals because, despite that system allowing the exchange of information on such persons, there was no common Union procedure or mechanism to do so effectively, speed and accuracy. In fact, information about third-country nationals was not compiled within the Union, contrary to what happened with respect to nationals of Member States within the Member State of nationality, and is only stored in the Member States where the convictions were effectively handed down. Thus, the full picture of the criminal history of a third-country national could be collected, if all Member States were to be asked for such information, resulting in a herculean effort which was not effective and incapable of the necessary speed. To overcome this state of affairs, the Commission submitted a proposal leading to the adoption of Regulation ( EU ) 2019 / 816, which creates a centralised system for the determination of Member States with information on the conditions of third-country nationals and stateless persons, ECRIS-TCN. This is a system of crucial importance, centralized in the Union frameworks, which will allow to determine which States have information on their previous conditions, thus enabling the central authorities of the Member States to determine, quickly and effectively, in which other Member States are stored information on criminal records of third-country nationals. in the same year 2019, Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 884 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April amending Framework Decision 2009 / 315 / JHA of the Council and introducing necessary amendments to allow the effective exchange of information on convictions of third-country nationals through ECRIS, and in this context obliges Member States to take the necessary internal measures to ensure that conviction decisions are accompanied by information on the nationality or nationality of convicted persons. These amendments aim to make that information more effective and accurate among the Member States, ensuring that it is shared in a reliable, speedy and uniform manner. In view of the legislative framework of the European Union described above, the internal plan needs to be adjusted to the European guidelines already drawn up. The proposed amendments mainly concern Chapters V to VII of Law No 37 / 2015 on the exchange of information on convictions issued by courts of Member States of the European Union, exchange of information with States other than members of the European Union and protection of personal data respectively. In view of the above, it is necessary to amend Article 29. on requests for information to be sent to the foreign central authorities in order to ensure that whenever a national person in a third country, stateless or unknown nationality, or a public entity at his request, requests the Portuguese criminal identification services to register the respective criminal registration, these services shall make a request for information to the central authorities of the Member States which have such information. Also with regard to Article 29. the solution of paragraph 1 must be cited, as criminal proceedings against Portuguese or against nationals of Member States may be instructed with criminal records containing criminal decisions of convictions against them in other Member States. Article 31 should also be amended. in order to ensure that criminal identification services respond to requests for registration in this area, ensuring that national and European citizens have a free movement of persons, barred from internal borders, an area of true freedom, security and justice. This is our plan, a plan that this bill, I am sure, will contribute to achieving. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u44	The Bureau does not make any request for clarification to the Minister, so we will turn to the speeches of the parliamentary groups and the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. For an intervention, you have the floor of Mrs PAN, Inês de Sousa Real. You have one minute, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the Ministers. The transposition of the directive we are discussing today is very important: it will ensure an additional means for preventing and combating organised crime and terrorism. Despite the importance of this information and the transposition of this directive, particularly with regard to the movement between third countries, it seems to us, however, that this proposal lacks some improvements that can and should be ensured in the field of expertise. From the outset, and despite the lack of access to this information, it does not seem clear to us that this proposal ensures the integrity and confidentiality of the data transmitted, in particular because it is not sufficiently clear how this information is transmitted when the consent of the information holder itself is not necessary. This is an issue which we believe may indeed be due to the specialty, as well as the fact that whoever must provide this information must be the Directorate-General of the Administration of Justice and not its Director-General, in our view. By clarifying these aspects in the specialty, the NAP understands that, in fact, the merit of the transposition of this directive is more than relevant and we are available for, in the specialty, to present these proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u46	Mr Bruno Nunes has the floor for an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are, in fact, a good student out there, but often, internally, we have some difficulty in applying some of the directives. In principle, we are in favour of the directive because, obviously, it can help criminal police and justice to have greater transparency in the fight against terrorism, against corruption, human trafficking, etc. However, we are such a country forward, so ahead that this Community directive almost deserved to be named Fernando Medina, because today we are approving the Community directive but we have already been applying this in Portugal for two or three years, when Mr. President of the City Council of Lisbon transferred data to Russia about anti-Kremlin and anti-Putin protesters. [[Congrats from the CH.]] However, we still do not understand some aspects of this directive and we would like to take advantage of the presence of the government. In database management there are questions about how this information will be given and, as regards responsibility, we also consider that it is not described in the correct manner how documents will be transcribed internationally. And we arrived here today without realizing — for example, with the extinction of the SEF and only to try to understand parallelism — the management of the database that also has to do with criminal records and criminals that are identified. After all, she's going to be managed by whom? Is it for the judicial police? There is one part which is already the responsibility of the Judicial Police ; there is another part, namely several CPOs (criminal police bodies ), to which the Public Security Police does not have access. So, outside, we give all the information, but internally we can't organize ourselves. The important thing is to go out there, make nice, appear in a good picture, but we actually have many doubts about how all this will be done. In principle, I reaffirm, we are in favour of this data transmission, of course, but we would like all this to be clarified and that at no time the sovereignty of Brussels should be placed above the sovereignty of the Portuguese people. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u48	For an intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill that the Government brings to this Parliament transposes Directive 2019 / 884 as regards the exchange of information on third-country nationals. The directive introduces a reform of the European System of Information on Criminal Records, which involves several in-depth steps towards the federalisation of justice, by placing data from citizens of the Member States in the hands of supranational institutions. All this in the context of a safe drift, driven by a broad and dubious definition of terrorism, which took an important first step with the creation of the European Crime Registry Information System. However, many steps have been taken to centralize information and means in European agencies and entities, sub-alternating national entities, while taking them locally. The CFP does not deny that, where necessary — in the strictest and strictest sense — the transmission of information on citizens' criminal records should be carried out on a bilateral basis, established between States. What we are discussing goes beyond that, goes beyond that, bypassing this bilateral cooperation base in an area that is recognised as sensitive because it is associated with individual rights, freedoms and guarantees that our Constitution protects. The possibility of Europol being able to receive and transfer to third parties, for research purposes, personal data from citizens, even if they are not directly targeted by a particular charge. Citizens and the State are the most vulnerable and subject to entities that are not the target of close, sovereign and democratic scrutiny. But more, sirs. Members: At first, these systems of sharing and interoperability were presented as a response to terrorism, starting with the secure path we all know, but today we all know that the path that these legislative initiatives are part of is the worst reaction to migration and the concept of 'Europe-fortress' defined by the so-called 'external borders of the European Union'. It is a policy that has proved cruel, a policy of migration of federalist, restrictive, selective, criminalizing and violating the human rights of migrants, with the predominant role assigned to Frontex, which has been the target of serious accusations of violation of fundamental human rights, and the subordination of the competent national authorities to European Union agencies. The CFP opposes the Europeanization of police and judicial issues, thus paying attention to the sovereignty of States, instrumentalizing these issues and putting them at the service of their policies and conveniences, particularly with regard to migration policy. We reject the threat that this European Union proposal — and its proposed law — constitutes against the rights of citizens enshrined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u50	For an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Francisco Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u51	Good morning, Mr. President, Mrs. Ministers, Mrs. Members: The European Union has set the goal of providing its citizens with an area of freedom, security and justice without internal borders, in which the free movement of persons is ensured. This objective must be achieved through, inter alia, appropriate measures to prevent and combat crime, including organised crime and terrorism, which requires Member States to be able, in a timely, complete and effective manner, to exchange criminal information for those circulating in their territory. For the purposes of pursuing this objective, information relating to conviction decisions in the Member States shall be taken into account outside the Member State of condemnation for the purpose of new proceedings and for the prevention of new infringements. To this end, the exchange of information drawn from criminal records between the competent authorities of the Member States should be ensured. It is recognised that the legal system of the European criminal registration information system, ECRIS, is currently not sufficiently responsive to the particularities of applications concerning third-country nationals. Thus, despite the exchange of information on third-country nationals already possible through ECRIS, there is no Union procedure or mechanism to do so effectively, quickly and precisely. Directive 2019 / 884 of Parliament and of the Council of 17 April complements the European system of information on criminal records, requiring Member States to take the necessary measures to ensure that conviction decisions are accompanied by information on the nationality or nationality of the convicted person, where Member States have such information. In addition, the Directive introduces procedures for responding to requests for information, ensures that extracts from the criminal register requested by third-country nationals are complemented by information from other Member States and introduce the technical changes necessary to ensure the operation of the information exchange system. The proposed law in question is transposed into this directive, accepting the solutions now outlined and creating mechanisms for exchange in line with the objectives proposed there. In summary, the initiative amends the existing legal regime, Law No 37 / 2015 of 5 May, in order to ensure, firstly, that whenever a national person of third country, stateless or unknown nationality requests the Portuguese criminal identification services for his or her certificate of criminal registration, these services shall make requests for information to the central authorities of the Member States which have information about that person. It should also be noted that this is the existing solution for nationals of other Member States vis-à-vis those Member States, and therefore this scheme is only designed to extend this information exchange regime to all persons irrespective of their nationality. Secondly, this diploma establishes an exchange mechanism between the authorities of the Member States more effective and speedy for the purpose of exchanging criminal registration information for persons from third countries or without nationality, providing for dematerialized means of transmission and short time limits for the practice of such acts. And here I am replying to the honourable Member from the House that there are, in fact, ways to transmit this information. In the opinion of this parliamentary group, the proposed amendment is of the greatest importance to ensure the safety objectives proposed by the directive, since it will allow for a more rapid and effective exchange of criminal information that has not existed so far in these forms. Thus, it will be possible for criminal records of persons, regardless of their nationality, to be more complete and can be used in ongoing criminal proceedings, particularly in the field of research, but also for the prevention of the practice of new crimes. Finally, I would like to say that the solution enshrined in this bill is appropriate to achieve those objectives, as it was concluded in the opinions issued by the hearing entities, such as the Supreme Council of the Magistracy, the Superior Council of the Public Ministry, the National Data Protection Commission and the Advocates' Order. However, some aspects have been identified in these opinions which, being perfectly out of reach, should deserve our best attention and consideration, so we are fully committed and available to work on this initiative in committee. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Augusto Santos Silva took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u52	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cristiana Ferreira has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u53	Mr President, Mr Ministers, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The proposed law now under discussion is intended to transpose into the internal legal order of Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 884 and thus conform the national legal regime of criminal identification to the new European legal framework for the exchange of information between Member States on criminal records, extending the scope of application to nationals of third countries, stateless or of unknown nationality. As a result, a proposal to amend the Criminal Identification Act and its regulation is submitted. The deadline for the transposition of the directive ends next week on 28 June, which we cannot fail to point out, since only now is Parliament called on to discuss this matter, and it is therefore clear that Portugal will not comply with its obligations in such a sensitive and important area as this, especially in the era in which we live. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u54	But let's go straight to matter. Basically, what is intended is for Member States to exchange information between themselves in the issue of criminal registration certificates; from which it follows that Portugal will have to have services capable of responding to requests for information on criminal registration also of third-country nationals, stateless or unknown, irrespective of whether they resided or resided in national territory. We call on the fact that, in the transposition of the directive, this exchange of information must always take place, which is not clear from this proposal of law. in this sense, we believe it will really have to be improved. Another circumstance which also deserves some weighting is the addition of Article 34 ( 2 ). that of the Criminal Identification Act, where it is expected that, if the electronic system is not available, the transmission of information shall be carried out by any means likely to leave written registration. But what alternative means does the bill refer to, Mr. Minister? Oh, my God! The solution is very broad, when it refers to « by any means», especially in matters of this nature. It is that, if the objective is to improve the safety of citizens in a European area of freedom, security and justice, at no time can the very security of people's data be undermined. We do not even want to equalize the undue supply of such elements and hence the importance of cautioning the clarity and extent of the information exchanged, which must be shared only in safety conditions, in accordance with the recitals of the Directive. Therefore, the solution recommended in paragraph 2 does not appear to offer a solid solution to ensure the confidentiality of personal data to be transmitted and received. Given the imperative and importance of the legislative amendment, we cannot ignore the fact that it is essentially done by the means and the form. On the other hand, a period of 10 to 20 working days is provided, as the case may be, to comply with requests for information, but, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we can have the best legal instruments, but if we are not effective in their implementation, we will not achieve the proposed objectives. We also believe that, in assessing the adequacy of the proposed law to the system of personal data protection — whether from the point of view of the controller, or by promoting and implementing appropriate technical and organisational measures — the treatment must be carried out in accordance with the regulation, and here too there may be improvements. This legislation leads us to find a balance, because we are talking about the provision of data from people and security issues. In conclusion, the PSD is available to work and propose improvements to this bill, which will therefore not make it impossible. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u55	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u56	Mr President, Mr Ministers, Mrs and Mrs. Members: Some particular aspects of the bill have already been raised. The National Data Protection Commission itself identifies the need for greater robustness with regard to the exchange of information, but I confess that this is not the point that I wanted to give centrality in this intervention, because it is not irrelevant, it follows from an announcement to the paradigm in which this legislation closes, and a paradigm that we contest and that is the aspect I wanted to refer to. We know that the exchange of information works on two sides: the Portuguese authorities give information about Portuguese nationals or people in national territory to other States and the other States give it to Portugal. We know, as in these circumstances, that safeguarding fundamental rights in national territory, even by comparative legislation in European territory, is much more guaranteed in our territory than in other States. I could quote Hungary to begin with, but we all know that, even within the European Union, the way in which fundamental rights and freedoms are safeguarded, and how these rights are linked to citizens' data guarantees, is not treated in the same way. From that point of view, we believe that Portugal is a good example, not a bad example. But what we do with this paradigm in which this bill insists, because it follows a European directive, is to allow states that do not have the same assurance about citizens, their information and how to deal with these sensitive data can access information from the Portuguese State, or given by the Portuguese State. That is why, from this point of view, we are failing the Portuguese citizens or those who are in the national territory with regard to these guarantees that we, here, have protected and valued, we are even creating an inequality of criteria, because Portuguese judicial authorities, for example, will have greater restrictions on the request for information about citizens who are in other States than those who then have access to information from the Portuguese State. If there are already inequalities within the European Union — which deserves our challenge — it is even more serious that we know that what is intended is not only between States of the European Union, but rather the transfer of data to supranational entities that are also related to entities from other geographical regions. We are not talking about illegalities here, such as those committed by the NSA (National Security Agency ) in the European area over the decades, but we are referring to how other States, with which the supranational European entities have a complete openness of relationship and cooperation, also devalue fundamental guarantees, thereby devaluing the fundamental rights of citizens to their information and their data. We therefore believe that this paradigm is wrong and therefore we oppose this bill, not because we have a specific innovation of the Portuguese Government, but because it is part of an unsecured assumption of the rights of Portuguese citizens, as regards the very observance of national law and comparison with other Member States. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u57	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are few aspects of European integration that are more useful, more popular and more appropriate for citizens than freedom of movement within the European Union. But in order to have an area of freedom, security and justice, people need to feel secure and, indeed, there is justice. There would be no worse for freedom of movement than for people to feel that it was abused, for example, by criminals, or to feel that European citizens had fewer rights than citizens from third countries. So there is one aspect that needs to be worked out, if we want our rights to have the corresponding credibility. Bilateral exchange of information, even decentralizedly, is not the same as federalism. In fact, it is appropriate not to abuse the word, but one day, when there are proposals — or rather, there are already proposals — of the creation of a European Federal Bureau of Research at that time, we have nothing to call it. However, this proposal raises reservations. He raised reservations to the Order of Advocates and the National Data Protection Commission and, in the Book, made further reservations. First of all, there must be a guarantee that the citizen has even access to all requests that are made about him, and that this happens in practice, which is not only in the letter of the law. Therefore, this must be advertised and it is easy for the citizen to know who it is who asked for data about you. Secondly, respect for the rule of law must be guaranteed in the other countries of the European Union asking for such data, because, in that case, the problem is not, in fact, bilateral, that there are no ways to guarantee it at Union level.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u59	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u60	Thirdly, it is necessary to ensure that in Portugal the debate is not done, as always happens with the transposition of directives, as follows: there are countries that transpose at least...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u61	Mr Rui Tavares, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u62	That is how I end, Mr President. As I said, there are countries that transpose at least, there are countries that transpose "all and a pair of boots" and there are countries that transpose late and late hours. Since the deadline ends next week, I think it is more or less clear what our case is.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u63	Request for restraint, Member of the Commission. If it wasn't for the Parliamentary Group to hear it, I would have spoken sooner. [[CH's laughs.]] Speaking in the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party, you now have the floor to speak on behalf of Mr Bruno Nunes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u64	Mr President, in your person, once again I welcome all those present. First of all, I wanted to apologize to you because yesterday you said you had been Minister of Finance, when you were Minister of Foreign Affairs, and being « former Minister of Finance of the Socialist Party » would not be a good thing to attribute to you,... [[CH's laughs.]] [[PS protests.]] ...until he was associating him with an ongoing bankruptcy process, which would not be nice. So from now on, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u65	Bankruptcy in progress? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u66	Yeah, bankruptcy in progress. It's a new process that was created by you. Well, returning to the subject under discussion, after some statements I made, in my first speech, on this issue of the transmission of databases and the circulation of data, I saw some smiles, some headaches and indignation. I say we are good students abroad, but then, internally, we don't do things well and I ended up confirming even with PSP chiefs (PSP). Do you know, for example, that when we want information about a potential criminal in Portugal, to know whether or not he has entered our country, we have a delicate situation? [[PS protests.]] Let's rest that the one I called is retired, it's no one who's active. Get some rest! [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u67	But we can talk to the authorities! You guys don't like talking to the police, we like talking to the police! I just want to say one thing: we're very concerned about how we're going to pass the data out there, but do you know that if a PSP team currently wants information about a migrant or someone who's illegal, you have to ask the border of Caia and it's faxed? Oh, my God! It's faxed! So perhaps we will have to acquire some fax devices in order to be able to communicate with the European Union and send the data. We're in the Stone Age! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u68	Mr. Deputies, I appreciate the references you made to me. It is only yesterday that he does not correct it, because he knows that budgetary results such as those achieved by the previous Government can only be achieved if all are 'Ministers of Finance' in his ministries. [[PS and CH rice.]] The Bureau no longer records any requests for intervention, so that, in order to close the debate, it has the floor of Ms. Minister of Justice, Catarina Sarmento and Castro.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As soon as this Government has taken possession of this House, it has submitted to this House the proposal for a law which is being transposed into the directive. We should not forget that there was a political crisis that prevented us from doing so sooner. This area of freedom and security is what the European framework creates, and it is in this area of freedom and security that we include ourselves. This is another stone in this space of freedom and security, being another form of sedimentary. The questions of justice are serious and are sufficiently structuring so that, in this House, we seek as broad a consensus as possible in these matters. I am pleased to see that we are actually going to be able to move forward with this transposition. Of course, with regard to the concrete wording of precepts, it is possible, in the field of specialty, to still make some improvements, and they will always be welcome. It is indeed healthy that in the House of Democracy everyone can be involved in legislation, legislation, that which will always take into account the General Data Protection Regulation, which is obviously the regulation directly applicable, and therefore all this is subject to that regulation. This legislation is precisely aimed at guaranteeing rights and freedoms and is a fair balance sheet here. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u70	Thus, we conclude the debate on the second item of the agenda and we will move on to the third item, which is that of the assessment of Petition No 97 / XIV / 1. a ( Paulo Alexandre Esteves Borges et al.) — Recognition of the intrinsic rights of nature and of all living beings, in conjunction with Bill No 105 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — The sixth amendment to the Legal Scheme for Environmental Impact Assessment, approved by Decree-Law No 151 - B / 2013 of 31 October 2013 in general, and with the Resolutions 75 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Update of the list of species at risk and in the pathways of extinction and National Register of Classified Natural Values, 81 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Protect protected areas and 82 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government issue a new dispatch of the time limits for compensation for damage to animals caused by the lobe-bieric and awareness-raising for the adoption of preventive measures to avoid wolf attacks. To submit Bill No 105 / XV / 1. a ( PAN), you have the floor of Mrs Inês Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome the petitioners who bring to this House such an important issue, even more so when their first petitioner is one of the founding members of the NAP. Today, more than ever, the recognition of the intrinsic value of nature and of all forms of life that constitute it is absolutely fundamental, because we are only seven years from the point of no return. It is our intention to fight for the recognition of the intrinsic value of nature, as well as for the recognition that animals have their intrinsic dignity, that there exist by their own right and not only to serve us, that we present today a package of important initiatives to move towards this goal. We began, of course, by evaluating the Red List of Endangered Species of 2019, where Portugal was in 4. the place between European countries with more endangered species. In view of the need to update these data, the ICNF (Instituto da Conservação da Nature and das Forestas) launched a project for the edition of a new Red Book of Continental Portugal mammals, which was to be completed in 2021, but this did not happen. This information is crucial for more sustainable development, which places Portugal at the forefront of biodiversity protection, in particular endangered species, and without this assessment we are at risk of continuing to see investments of millions of euros in the destruction of habitats and ecosystems that are important to various species at risk and to contribute to the decline of native biodiversity. Another key instrument is the National Register of Classified Natural Values, which we also propose alongside this initiative. And precisely because we are talking about threatened species, the NAP also intends to contribute to the protection of the hybrid wolf. Unfortunately, the Government has left it beyond the deadline for compensation for damage caused by the British wolf, and we well know the old conflict between man and the British wolf, in particular for the damage caused. People who see themselves in the possibility of being compensated for the damage caused by wolves, even though livestock farmers did not have the preventive measures of the wolf attacks, now they have a clear omission in this regime and the wolves remain at the mercy of slaughter due to fear or retaliation. We know that this is a retreat on the path of peace between the human being and the wolf and, above all, in the protection of this emblematic species in our country. Finally, we want the scheme of environmental impact assessment projects in sensitive areas, or when there may be tacit deviations or indefinite extensions, that is, in fact, revised, so that we can recognize and value the unique natural heritage we have in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u72	Thank you very much, Mrs. Member, who is also author of the Resolution Projects 75 / XV / 1. a and 82 / XV / 1. a, which also had the opportunity to present to the House. To present draft resolution No 81 / XV / 1. a, from the PSD, has the floor Mr Hugo Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I greet the petitioners for the recognition of the intrinsic rights of nature and of all living beings. This petition has a very important and central idea for our future: the awareness that we have to have about the importance of the nature and biodiversity of socio-ecological systems. But, in addition to awareness, we need action, we need public policies and instruments that defend nature. In the holistic context of the petition, the PSD presents a draft resolution that aims to protect protected areas. It even seems like redundancy, but it is not, because unfortunately, we have a problem with the management instruments of these territories. The protected areas in Portugal naturally lack effective and up-to-date planning tools to ensure the conservation of nature and compatibility with other activities, depending on the ecological sensitivity of each territory. In June 2022, the situation with regard to existing planning plans is disappointing: there are widespread delays in review procedures and natural values are increasingly at risk. Law No. 31 / 2014 of May 30, approved the general basis of public land policy, land planning and urbanism and determined that the special planning plans of the territory, in which the planning plans of protected areas were framed, were transposed into programmes. In addition to this need for legal review, there are parks and natural reserves that have outdated planning plans, in the face of environmental reality and the challenges they face, particularly due to the anthropogenic pressures that have increased. After returning seven years, today a set of 25 protected areas that lack revised and updated sorting programs. of these, almost half — 11 — are dated 2008 and are supported by a database of information and diagnosis with approximately 15 years. In general, a period of 15 months was established for each retraining process which in several cases started in 2017. Thus, it is difficult to understand that in 2022 there are no completed processes. There are only 8 processes under preparation, 6 in administrative procedure and 11 to initiate or trigger according to the data of the NCFI. The situation is unacceptable! On 21 May 2021, the National Council for the Environment and Sustainable Development presented the reflection and recommendation to the Assembly of the Republic and to the Government on the sustainable management of protected areas within the framework of the European Ecological Pact. This document also states that 14 retraining processes were in progress at that time, exactly the same ones that are pending in 2022, having passed more than one year. The remaining 11 programmes are still waiting for the initiation of the procedure. It should also be noted that the retraining of the programme is only part of the legal obligation, and it must also be ensured that the implementation of the municipal guidelines is carried out. In the State Budget Report for 2022 — stop! — the Government indicated that in 2022 it should start a year dedicated to nature. However, more than proclaiming special years, it is important to follow up on the special programmes of protected areas that have been going on for seven years. We welcome the study Biodiversity 2030, coordinated by Professor Miguel Bastos Araújo, which brings an avant-garde vision, but also a black and very worrying diagnosis that affects the subject we bring here. I point out a reference that seems very correct on page 263, and I quote: « The ordination of the territory is a public function, a fundamental task of the State, but its inefficiencies have referred it to a place of discredit. Do not keep on seeking. ” Therefore, when we say that we want to extend the classified areas and the national network of protected areas, even under the European Ecological Pact, we must first do housework, because otherwise it is total disbelief. in this regard, we should seek greater consensus to solve the problems of conservation and biodiversity. The animals and plants, which I know, have no political party. With regard to the three initiatives brought by the NAP, to which we welcome the spirit of initiative, we want to say that we accompany the concern about compensation for damage caused by the hybrid wolf, which is in fact an important instrument to contribute to safeguarding its effectiveness. As for the registration of the natural values that they defend, and despite the goodness of the proposal, we believe it is more important that the State update the planning programs and their diagnoses. As for the review of the Environmental Impact Assessment Legal Regime, we must have the notion that economic activities are also important to create jobs and wealth. We cannot approve measures that forget that it is also necessary to reconcile different uses and activities in the territory. We understand that this regime needs to be improved and modernized to provide more guarantees for the protection of biodiversity and natural resources, but it is not prohibiting or inhibiting all the economic activities that we are going there. We defend the rights of nature if we are able to find balanced solutions. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u74	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Raquel Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome the subscribers of this petition, thanking the contribution they have made to the Assembly of the Republic. With regard to the draft law, proposed by the NAP, I would like to begin by saying that the Legal Scheme for Environmental Impact Assessment provides for a set of descriptors that are already evaluated, descriptors, these, which have environmental, social, economic, heritage character, among other areas. I must also say that there are already much smaller thresholds for the subjecting of environmental impact assessment of projects in sensitive areas and that correctly assess the need for environmental impact assessment procedure. On the other hand, these projects require authorizations from the Administration, if necessary, and may be subject to further studies, if necessary. This bill was not built from an integrated view of the country and the negative impact of noting-CL will be more on small and medium-sized farms and on family farming. With regard to matters relating to the Directorate-General for Natural Resources, Safety and Maritime Services, it is clear that the obligation of environmental impact assessment for all projects in Annex II falls on sensitive areas, because, as a rule, most projects located in sensitive areas already have more demanding thresholds in relation to the mandatory of environmental impact assessment procedures. With regard to the possibility of eliminating the tacit deferral, I would like to say that, if this happened, any investment project subject to environmental impact assessment would never have the possibility of predicting when and how it could be executed, and the economic consequences would be very negative. Given this, the draft law, proposed by the NAP, does not appear to introduce substantial improvements in the current legal regime of Environmental Impact Assessment, and may, on the contrary, make it difficult to carry out structural projects or even make some of these projects impossible. In short, the proposed amendments are not only distorted as they would create such an entropy which would reduce the capacity to implement initiatives and projects. In addition, a change to this legal regime will have to reflect the balance built at national and European Union level between environmental protection and sustainable development. It is in line with this balance and with this agenda for the digitization of public administration and modernisation of the procedures that the Government is considering a change to the environmental impact assessment regime, which will shortly enter into public consultation. It will be important to simplify, maintain strict environmental control, and strengthen public hearing and participation. The PS Parliamentary Group does not follow this initiative from the NAP. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u76	To speak on behalf of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, Mr Bernardo Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The petition that convenes today's debate is an important petition because it gives us another opportunity to reflect on the challenges of energy transition and nature conservation. But the petition presents arguments, in our view, too radical. The view that it is necessary not to grow or even impoverish, thus calling into question our economic development, as has already been said, or even our social cohesion, is a vision of which we strongly disagree. For the Liberal Initiative it is necessary to grow in investment and technological innovation that enables us to move to an increasingly carbon-free economy, but in a balanced way. Today, it is not true that more growth always involves an increase in CO2 emissions, with all existing technology, and it is not true that the global population continues to increase as the population in the least developed countries is enriching. That is why I need all countries to develop to have the economic capacity to face the energy transition. As regards the initiatives presented here today, concerning the NAP, on the environmental impact regime, as has already been said by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, although, of course, the regime is an important tool for mitigating impacts, the project presented here makes the scheme basically a drawer of economic development, because it would not only burden our administration as if the entire economy were to be suspended, in view of the elimination of the tacit deferment. We cannot therefore follow this project, especially when we are already discussing, at European level, the lifting of these requirements for renewable energy projects—of which, and it is almost consensual, we urgently need, in well-defined areas—and when it is also shown that, without capital and without enormous effort by our companies, countries will not have the capacity to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement. But if, on the one hand, nature cannot, of course, be stagnant and immovable, the economy cannot be a compressor roll either. It is in this balance, far from radicalisms, that we will subscribe to all other proposals, in order to protect what is really important in our natural heritage. We will therefore vote in favour of the NAP proposals on endangered and endangered species and conservation of the Iberian wolf, as well as the PSD proposal already presented here concerning special programmes of protected areas. The Liberal Initiative will always defend green growth and decarbonization, where technological innovation will respond to climate change, but without radicalisms of poverty and social setbacks. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u78	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor now, on behalf of the Free, and for one minute.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u79	Mr President, with the same tolerance you have had, I suppose, in relation to the other parliamentary groups and Members. Since the foundation of political ecology as a philosophical and European party movement that is at its centre what one of the greatest philosophers of the century Hans Jonas called the principle of responsibility. It is the responsibility of those with the most agency, the more autonomy, the more capacity for action, the protection of ecosystems, people and weaker animals, with less agency capacity or autonomy. It is not a philosophical discussion here about whether nature and animals have intrinsic rights or whether what we have is, on the contrary, the duty and responsibility to protect, because they are more fragile or because they are in a situation of weakness; it is a matter of recognizing that there are differences between political ecology and animalism and, although many of these differences are converging into common objectives, which we accompany, the truth is that their philosophical foundations are different. It is in this framework that, in conclusion, the Book will accompany a number of these proposals, but it must also make clear that its political ecology is based on a principle of responsibility that recognizes dignity and value to nature, but does not get into conceptual confusion about the concept of rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u80	To speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Pedro Frazão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u81	H.E. Mr. President, Illustres Sr.as and Mrs. Members: The Parliamentary Group of the Arrival welcomes the petitioners and the subscribers of this petition. In spite of having another disparity, we respect and strongly defend the right to freedom of expression and civic participation. We respect democratic values and do not create incarnate lines or sanitary cords to those who think differently. We are going to the dialogue and debate of ideas. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Therefore, in front of us, we say that the petition in question defends a society of animal vision and "veganic" ideologies, according to which there is a continuum of the species among all living beings. They will all be ‘subjects of a life’ and cannot have any useful purpose, equating humans and non-humans in a radical cause. Now, the arrival is a personalist party and the person cannot be reduced in dignity, from conception to natural death. First, it must be realized that man is the subject of rights and duties, not by any ontological characteristic, but by an axiological requirement, which results from his way of being, in everything different from the way of being of animals. Secondly, this initiative would lie for the basket of papers all existing legislation on protection of nature, promotion of biodiversity, animal welfare and conservation of nature. I would spray national, Community and international legislation resulting from the transposition of Community directives, agreements and conventions signed by the Portuguese State. These diplomas are, in fact, the most advanced in the world and essential instruments for the protection of threatened species, for the implementation of the Green Deal and the Prado to Prato Strategy, within the framework of the common agricultural policy. The creation of legislation that guarantees the right to life and integrity of any living creature would immediately call into question any use of domestic animals by man. I would thus put our food security at all risk, bringing nothing more than a great hunger to the citizens. It is also incomprehensible that this petition invokes legislation from countries such as Bolivia, Ecuador, Mexico and India, where there are clear problems with deforestation, depletion of natural resources, pollution and other anti-conservationist attacks.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u82	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u83	Animalism is a current of opinion that equals human beings with all kinds of living beings, and equalizing means putting them on equal rights, but not on duty — which would be manifestly impossible — and wanting a social integration of all of them, for all purposes. Now, animalists deny humanism, the philosophical current supported by science and religions, which places the human being at the center of all lives, stimulating the development of their intelligence, their sensitivity and their creativity. Animalists deny the human being as a moral subject and as an intellectual subject.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u84	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u85	Today, animalism is confused with ecology, and they are not the same, indeed, opposed things. Maybe if this was put into practice, we should stop taking antibiotics to kill bacteria or treat the lice of the children's heads because everyone had a right to life. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The dogs, these, would have to endure the ticks and fleas, because the parasites would be banned, so as not to harm the rights of the parasites. Now, Portugal needs sustainable development, it does not need animal-blocking forces. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u86	To speak on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating all the citizens who addressed this House, through this petition. unlike the assumption of antagonism between man and nature, which is often implied in more superficial approaches to environmental policies, the PCP defends the harmonization of human development with nature, the unity of man with nature, of which it is part and on which it depends. We want here to remember, and value, a slogan that results, in fact, from the Basic Law of our Country. In accordance with Article 9. that of the Constitution of the Republic, defending nature and the environment is a fundamental task of the State. And if the realization of this principle has not been achieved by the imperfections of the law, or too humanistic conceptions for some, but, yes, because, like what has happened in much of the areas of intervention of successive governments, these contents and guidelines have not been followed in practice. In particular, in recent years, there has been a gradual destruction and weakening of the intervention capacity of the State and its own bodies, in a strategy to minimize the presence of the State, aiming at the mercantilization of natural resources, subjecting its ecological value to an economic value, and placing them both at the service of private interests. The results of the domain of economic power on land-use transformations leave negative marks and prevent a cohesive and balanced country, based on territorial planning and environmental policy that revitalizes and preserves the living conditions of the population. For the CFP, the environment policy and spatial planning should promote development in harmony with the cycles of natural resources regeneration, ecological balance, stability of cycles and biological and geological relations, the maintenance of ecosystems that support life, the rational use of living resources and the preservation of genetic heritage and its diversity. For the CFP, all fauna shall be protected through special legislation, in order to safeguard the conservation and exploitation of species, ensuring its genetic potential and habitats that ensure its existence, and the protection of indigenous wildlife resources may involve measures to restrict, condition or ban activities. The conservation of animal, plant and other living beings, as well as of the corresponding habitats and ecosystems, is inalienable and is incumbent upon the State through its competent bodies. This derives directly from the above-mentioned constitutional principle, which has been so mistreated by successive governments. These are some of the fundamental lines of the proposals which the CFP has been presenting for several years now as part of the legislative initiative, establishing the basis for environmental policy. Portugal needs a shift in environmental policy, aiming to preserve the balance of nature and its ecological systems and natural resources, preventing, mitigating and preparing the territories for the purposes of climate change, combating the mercantillization of the environment. This is the meaning of the policy that the CFP defends and proposes, in the ongoing intervention and in the various legislative initiatives it has been presenting. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u88	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It was also with a proposal from the Left Block that this Parliament recognized the stable climate as a common heritage of mankind. I begin with this example, to give an answer to the petitioners who have generated this debate today in the Assembly of the Republic, telling them that we accompany their concerns, because we believe that there are intrinsic values, both of nature and of all living beings, which must constitute a common heritage of humanity. We don't have a vision that there is a human being on one side and everything else on the other. This is dated, it is manifestly from the past century and clearly will not be part of a future for mankind. We know that the natural resources and resources essential to life and to the planet must be shared, because they are necessary for the life of all living beings on the planet, of which humans are only a part. We also know that, in climate justice, it has to be inherent in this debate, there are those who have been exploited over the centuries, and it does not arrive, it does not knock at the door of everyone in the same way. There was a happy coincidence that this debate would take place on a Friday, on one of those Fridays for the Future that young people organized, on behalf of a future for the planet, and where they say, for example, that this generation has given them a huge challenge, which is to respond to a planet that is in a climate chaos. Why? Because the economic system, because the development of globalization, the way the economy has developed on a planetary scale does not respond to the future of the planet. They also say, and well, that these inequalities do not strike everyone in the same way — the rich countries and the poor countries — and that many of the poor countries are those who are paying for crimes against the environment and against the climate that they have not committed. But it is also curious that these young people are raising scientific knowledge against those who often deny climate change, against those who have risen up in this Parliament, against the recognition of the evil that climate change is causing and against those who often stand alongside, for example, Bolsonaro, and others like that, to whom we must remember that now activists who defend Amazon as a common good of humanity, because it is in fact one of the lungs of the planet, are murdered, but on this matter nothing says. Listening to scientific knowledge without biting the language, Mr. Member, is almost curious, because it is the alforge of negationism in our country: they deny climate change, deny a set of realities that are clear to the scientific community and accompany all those who are by the obscurantism about climate change, as is the case of Bolsonaro.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u90	So much lies together! How can you lie so much without laughing? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u91	And from this point of view, to all the young generations who rise up for the future, we say present, unlike others, that should bite the tongue. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u92	Ignorance!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u93	To speak on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cláudia Avelar has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I welcome the subscribers of the petition, thanking you for your contribution. With regard to the proposal presented by the NAP here, relating to the updating of the status of vulnerable and endangered species, particularly in the so-called Red Paper, and which we are discussing, it is important to note that the Government, through the Ministry of the Environment, is already implementing a set of measures related to the recommendation presented to us and that it has a total investment of EUR 2, 1 million, of which EUR 1, 8 million comes from the Cohesion Fund. With regard to the proposal to create a national register of classified natural values, we should note that the ICNF has already drawn up a proposal for a national register of classified natural values, which at the end of 2021 was subject to public consultation. This process, where only natural values of occurrence in the Portuguese quota are considered, was recently presented to this government area, which is to be analysed, to further submit the legislative process. As for the PSD proposal, which presents a project on protection of protected areas, this is also a concern on the part of the PS Government. In fact, it is important to refer in this regard to the determination of Article 80. the Law of general basis of public policy on soils, land management and urbanism, which determines the retraining of programmes for the sorting of protected areas in force to the figure of special programmes, also determines the obligation to transpose the standards of these territorial management instruments, with the urban territorial impact, into the inter-municipal or municipal plans directly binding of the individuals. For draft resolution No 82 / XV / 1. a (PAN), which recommends that the Government apply compensation for damage caused by the Iberian wolf to farm animals, despite agreeing to the continued implementation of these measures, it is understood that the draft resolution is redundant because it is already in progress, which is why we have no objection to that draft resolution. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u95	I call on a number of Members and a number of Members. Members in the Chamber who abstain from doing so, so that we can all listen with due attention to our next colleague. Mr Hugo Oliveira of the PSD has the floor which will make an intervention on behalf of his parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members :I use my 16 seconds only to record the fact that the Socialist Party agrees with our draft resolution. In fact, they are factual questions and I am therefore happy to acknowledge that not all are roses and that, in fact, we are still in time for the year 2022 to be the true year of nature. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u97	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u98	So we conclude the third item on the agenda, so we move on to the fourth point, with the appreciation of Petition No 223 / XIV / 1. a... [[Pause.]] I was trying to say that we are going to enter the fourth item on the agenda, for the assessment of Petition No 223 / XIV / 1. a ( Association of Children's Education Professionals ) — Inclusion of 0 - 3 years in the education system - amendment of the Basic Law of the Educational System, together with, in general, the Lein.o 75 / XV / 1 Projects. a ( BE ) — Create the public daycare network program, 101 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — New legal regime for teaching and organizing the discipline and curriculum area of citizenship and development (CD) in basic and secondary schools, 104 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — It creates an education system for childhood that guarantees the inclusion of children from 0 to 3 years in the educational system, amending the Basics Law of the Educational System, approved by Law No 46 / 86 of 14 October, 120 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — proposes the creation of a public network of day care centres as a way to guarantee the rights of children, 129 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Amendment to Law 46 / 86, of 14 October, in its current wording, which approves the Basic Law of the Educational System - inclusion of education in the first childhood in the education system and creation of a public education network in the first childhood and with Resolution Projects No 72 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends that the Government amend the designation of the Ministry of Education to the Ministry of Education and 79 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government create a mechanism for sharing the cost of registration and frequency for children entering private establishment due to the absence of public supply, and initiate the process of setting up a public day care network. To submit Bill No. 75 / XV / 1. the left block, which creates the public daycare network program, has the floor of Mrs. Joana Mortagua.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The political debate is made of unpredictability, but it needs continuity in thought and consistency in principles. They help build and root out the arguments that we justify the important changes or the need for them. What we propose is to amend the Basic Law of the Education System. As this is an important change, I would first of all like to assure the plenary of the Assembly that it is not dirty. The inclusion of the first childhood in the educational system is an ancient claim of the Association of Children's Education Professionals, represented here by the first petitioner, Luís Ribeiro, and is the object of study and reflections for a long time, both by educational policy specialists and by political leaders and by bodies as well as the National Council of Education. One of the most vocal personalities in the defense of this change was, and it is, Prof. Teresa Vasconcelos. And it is with his words that I would like to introduce this proposal: "Education begins at 0 years. Education from 0 to 3 years is a right of children, insofar as, at a crucial stage of their development, it is essential that children have high educational quality care, so that the brain operations necessary for their development are done. Do not keep on seeking. ” Professor Teresa Vasconcelos was one of the first to appeal to the Assembly of the Republic to make, and I quote, "a surgical intervention in the Basics Law of the Education System, to change only the start date of education from 3 to 0 years". And he added Prof. Teresa Vasconcelos that «that would be the only way to overcome the Portuguese tradition of dichotomy between education and care». It is time to respond to this appeal and we add, from our farm, that this is also the only way to ensure a public network of day care, universal and free, that fulfils the rights of children and families both to education and to care. And because this is not a spurious proposal, I read the Electoral Program of the Left Block: « The cost of daycare relates to two wrong options: not to include daycare in the educational system, but to perceive the daycare in the field of social action(...) and not in the context of children's rights, which contributes to disresponsibility of the State. Do not keep on seeking. ” I recall Recommendation No 3 / 2011 — of 2011! — the National Education Council on education from 0 to 3 years. It considers that the realization of the right of children to day care is a factor of equal opportunities, inclusion and social cohesion. The same document states that the frequency of day care must be universal, so that families have high-quality services to whom to deliver their children, services, those that must be geographically close to their home or place of work. In the same vein, he defended the National Council of Education that the Ministry of Education should gradually assume responsibility for the protection of education from 0 to 3 years. For all these reasons, and also because educators and educators of childhood are due to the recognition of a career in teaching, the Left Block presents a proposal to include the first childhood in the education system and to create a national and public network of day care centers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u100	To submit Bill No. 101 / XV / 1. Mr Rui Afonso.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u101	H.E. Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Members: I should like to begin by congratulating and greeting the honourable Members. Petitioners and, in particular, thank you for bringing to this House such an important issue for the Portuguese teaching system. The arrival agrees with the inclusion of children up to 3 years of age in the teaching system. However, we must ensure that this theme is not ideologically instrumentalized, as do the left and the extreme left...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u102	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u103	... and effectively perceive the real shortcomings concerning the number of day care centres in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u104	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u105	So much demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u106	However, and first of all, we believe that a study at national level should be promoted to identify all day care centers whose equipment is public, private or the social sector. It is important that there is a perception exempt from the real needs of affected children and in which areas this happens. We believe that the State should prioritize the construction of public day care facilities in areas where there is no supply and conclude agreements with private entities or the social sector that already have such equipment, thus ensuring a harmonious integration of public day care networks and the social sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u107	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u108	So, Ex.mas Sr.as and Sr.s. Ladies and gentlemen, the arrival defends the inclusion of children up to 3 years of age in the education system, such as the creation of a network of public offers of day care, but which works in cooperation with private and social supply — a network of national day care centres and for all. The process of setting up the public network of day care centres should be managed with responsibility and transparency. It is time to manage Portugal with the dignity this Nation deserves. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u109	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u110	The arrival has two initiatives under discussion: a draft resolution, which recommends the amendment of the designation of Ministry of Education to Ministry of Education, and a draft law, which proposes a new legal regime for the discipline of Citizenship and Development. If it is true that universal education was of the greatest achievements of mankind, it is also true that we are repeatedly faced with new challenges. The well-being of children imposes new commitments between society and the State to ensure the proper formation of the generations of the present and the future. Having this in mind, in the view of the Arrival, this training is put at issue whenever the State extravagants those which are its competences. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u111	And it is precisely this point, dear Mariana Mortágua,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u112	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u113	...which separates the coming from the other political parties: for us, the state is to teach, the family is to educate. I'm sorry, Mrs. Joana Mortagua. We consider that education and education complement each other; however, they are not confused. the State is responsible for ensuring the conditions necessary for all families to fulfil and develop their educational functions in the best possible way, as well as ensuring the existence of appropriate educational establishments and relevant educational teams. the State is also responsible for ensuring the education of all children, regardless of the culture or beliefs of their family. It should also be stressed that the State has excluded those responsible for active participation education in the choice of programs and activities developed in the context of classroom, which may raise legitimate doubts about political and ideological neutrality in schools. This issue has been particularly controversial, particularly with regard to citizenship and development discipline, and even the courts have been challenged by a family because that discipline is mandatory. [[Mr Pedro dos Santos Frazão.]] There were several public personalities who expressed themselves on this subject, having subscribed a sub-signed to request the end of compulsory discipline, such as the former President of the Republic, Prof. Cavaco Silva, or the former Prime Minister, Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho, or the Cardinal-Patriarch of Lisbon, Mr. Manuel Clemente.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u114	So what about the petition? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u115	What the Arrival proposes is freedom, the freedom of parents to educate and participate in the training of their children.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u116	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u117	That is why we propose that the discipline of citizenship and development be optional. [[Congrats from the CH.]] This is a first step towards starting the structural reform that the Portuguese education system so precise — a moral and civic reform — to give teachers a dignified and respectful role in the classrooms, respecting the important history of Portugal, respect for science and biology, respect for family and school. The family educates, the school teaches. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u118	I already said Alexandre Frota, that great example of morality!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u119	To submit Bill No 104 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — It creates an education system for childhood that guarantees the inclusion of children from 0 to 3 years of age in the educational system, amending the Basics Law of the Educational System, approved by Law No 46 / 86 of 14 October, and the Resolution Project No 79 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government create a mechanism for sharing the cost of registration and frequency for children entering private establishment due to the absence of a public offer and initiate the process of setting up a public network of day care centres, has the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the more than 14 000 people who have mobilized in defense of the cause, so fair, in debate, that it is related to the need to create an education system for childhood that does not leave children under the age of 3. The right to education in childhood is a human right and that is why we do not follow ideologically shared views such as those of the Arrival, which here defends that education is exclusive to the family, when the duty to promote the education of our children is a shared duty between the State, society and the family. In Portugal, this right is not even guaranteed in the Basic Law of the Education System, which basically tells children that their right to education exists only when they are 3 years old. Until then, children are given only to family responsibility. And so many times we have seen — it is enough to look at the more than 70 000 cases that are accompanied by CPCJ (Commission on the Protection of Children and Youth) — that children who are delivered, often exclusively, only to the family context, to the so-called family education, are less protected than others. This model not only harms the development process of children, but also blocks the social elevator from the cradle. That is to say, the cycle of social inequality begins there, where opportunities are only within the reach of those who have the most. at the same time, it promotes the different parental responsibilities, including gender inequality, since, in the patriarchal society in which we live, these responsibilities continue to fall mostly on women. That is why, in order to change the system, following the recommendations of the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ), the European Union and the National Council for Education, the NAP proposes to amend the Basic Law of the Education System in order to create an education system for children covering education for the first childhood. In addition, we also propose that the freeness of day care facilities be truly effective and reach all families without discrimination. As it is today, the free of charge of day care centers reaches only a few families, since it does not cover the case of children who, because they do not have vacancies in the public offer and their area of residence, had to go to the private. This measure leaves 6 out of every 10 children. This does not remove the responsibility of the State to have a public network, but we must ensure that, where it does not exist, each child has the right to access to education and education.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u121	To submit Bill No. 120 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — proposes the creation of a public network of day care centres as a way to guarantee the rights of children, has the floor of Mrs Diana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming, on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, the subscribers of this petition, as well as the Association of Children's Education Professionals, dynamizers of it. The proposal and the intervention of the CFP were decisive for important steps in implementing the free daycare system, in recognizing this right and in progressive implementation, covering thousands of children since 2020. Although we have defended and proposed a more immediate and broader realization — which PS and PSD rejected — it was not the insistence of the CFP on this matter and this advance would not have been achieved. [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]] Alongside the freeness of day care, on the side of the PCP, we have also defended the creation of a public network capable of providing for the lack of vacancies in our country. Lack of this, in practice, means negation of the right to daycare and its gratuitousness to thousands of children and families. It is precisely to respond to this need that we present this initiative. We propose that 100 000 daycare leave be created within the framework of a public response covering the entire national territory, in the responsibility of the State, on a path that ensures the universality of daycare response in Portugal and that guarantees equal conditions for all children in access to a quality response in this area, irrespective of their socio-economic conditions. We also propose that the Ministry of Education assume responsibility for defining universal educational guidelines for day care and that the Government take the necessary measures to ensure that education between 0 and 3 years of age is integrated into the education system. A goal that should not be translated only in the amendment to the Basic Law of the Education System, but rather in a set of measures to ensure that this legal change has practical effect, in particular in terms of: planning and organisation of human, technical and financial means; consideration of appropriate mechanisms for selecting and recruiting professionals; integration of workers who ensure the childcare response in their careers, both at the level of children and educational action assistants, including in the counting of service time and in career progression; and the timing of the necessary procedures, in legal, regulatory and collective bargaining. The importance — and urgency — is undeniable! — a free and public response for children and families, both in the face of the current worsening economic and social situation, the brutal increase in the cost of living, the loss of the purchasing power of workers and families, and also considering the demographic deficit with which the country is faced. This measure is of particular relevance to the real possibility of reverse the situation. It is not difficult to understand the positive impact it has on the lives of families, especially young families, the security of knowing that, taking the decision to have a child, they have ensured the daycare response and that it is free of charge. In particular, when several studies show that Portuguese people of fertile age would like to have more children than they actually do. With the proposal of the CFP, this House has the opportunity to guarantee the right to day care for all children and to provide the security of this response to families. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u123	To submit Bill No. 129 / XV / 1. a (L) — Amendment to Law No 46 / 86 of 14 October, in its current wording, which approves the Basics Law of the Education System - inclusion of education in the first childhood in the education system and creation of a public education network in the first childhood, has the word Mr. Rui Tavares, of the Livre.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Basic Law of the Education System recognizes the existence of school and out-of-school education and pre-school education, from 3 to 6 years old, but does not recognize the existence of pre-school education from 0 to 3 years old as part of the Basic Law of the Education System and as an obligation of the State through the Ministry of Education, depending on social security. This separation makes no sense. It makes no sense to separate the first three years of life from a child of all others with regard to their educational trajectory. Frequent daycare is a right of children and access to daycare is a very important social support for the lives of families. The Free will thus greets the petitioners and accompanies their objectives without reservation. To achieve these objectives, a public network of day care centres is needed, universal and free of charge. We need a public network of creeks as we have a public network of schools or kindergartens. There's no difference. But in order to have a public network of day care centres, we need a calendar plan covering the entire national territory. That is why the Free took the initiative to present a bill that, by the end of 2022, the government will collect equipment and needs...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u125	That's done!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u126	... and, by the end of the first quarter of 2023, the Government will submit a plan to have that public network of day care. Thus, we can reach 2024, at the age of 50 of our democratic regime, guaranteeing this right to a public daycare network and access to an education, also up to 3 years old. It is urgent, it is essential and fair for our children and their families.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u127	I would like to draw the attention of the House to the following fact: it gives us the pleasure of watching our work by Mr Aécio Neves, President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and National Defence, of the Chamber of Deputies of the Brazilian National Congress, and of the former President of the Chamber of Deputies. In the person of Mr Aécio Neves, on behalf of the Portuguese Parliament, I greet the Brazilian Congress. [[Upstairs, PS, PSD, CH, IL, PCP, PAN and L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u128	Is that Alexandre Frota? Oh, my God! Oh, no, it's Aécio Neves!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u129	Continuing our work, for an intervention, on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor of Mrs Carla Castro.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We discuss the topic of the inclusion of children from 0 to 3 years of age in the educational system following this petition, and I take this opportunity to thank the petitioners for this debate. There is much to be done in the education of children in Portugal, particularly the first child and the effective protection of the most disadvantaged children. With regard to inclusion from the earliest age in the education system, the Liberal Initiative defends the universality of access to education since the age of 0 years, i.e. that it is given this opportunity to all families who want children to enter, which is, from time to time, either through the existence of supply—that is, through vacancies— or by enabling families with the least economic possibility to do so. Once again, the Liberal Initiative defends the guarantee of access and not the obligation of the provider to be public or private. The Liberal Initiative defends freedom of choice and reformulation of the financing of day care centres. There are three key problems, currently, on this subject. The lack of vacancies is a problem that is not being solved and the so-called "free crèches" are an illusion, or disappointment, to the majority who have contact with this topic. This adds another problem: besides being the model we defend, the creation of a public network of day care centers is a slow process. If the government wanted to solve the problem, with shortness and quality assurance, it would look at initiatives such as the revision of the financing model to families and establishments; it would include all pre-school, private and cooperative educational establishments in the solution; and it would increase the autonomy of freedom of establishment. We know that left-wing parties do not defend these solutions, but do not defend families, especially those with low incomes. What they don't see is that current solutions are exhausted and bad results in view. This is another example of where the State is failing. Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, it is in these functions that the State should be eximilar and not, for example, playing airplanes. Every year, family aggregates who want to have children face a chronic lack of vacancies, a lack of educational supply and a great difficulty in reconciling professional life and educating their children, which has two impacts: these uncertainties diminish or delay the decision to have children, being a real obstacle to our country's birth policy; and, once again, the families of lower incomes are, above all, damaged. In line with the general principle, the Liberal Initiative has, however, many reservations regarding initiatives, because they make changes without updating the Framework Law on Pre-School Education, which appear necessary to us and make incoherent legislative processes open, as there are proposals that do not deal with a basic problem, which is the lack of the network to cover families. I would also like to leave a note on the concrete free daycare process, which the Government has launched, in which there is no clear classification of criteria, does not clarify the number of vacancies, does not give priority to families most in need. In practice it has no other name but « deceptive advertising ». We already know the cases of family doctors, we already know other unfulfilled promises, and once again we express our deep indignation for more misleading advertising on a topic that is so important. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u131	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are approaching the end of this debate and, therefore, the time for the vote. I ask the services that will open the quorum verification register. Mr Fernando José of the Socialist Party has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the petitioners who, with their civic action, contribute to the densification of our democracy. I also welcome the initiatives of the Left Block, the Portuguese Communist Party, the PAN and the Free Party, which, following the green path in Petition No 223 / XIV / 2. the, once again, put the theme of education on the agenda. As is known, the general framework of the education system determines that it comprises preschool education, school education and extra-school education, and that the legal order of preschool education reflects that this educational level is recognized as the first stage of basic education in the process of lifelong education, which is intended for children aged between the ages of 3 and the age of entry into basic education. in this context, the pedagogical protection of pre-school educational establishments is the competence of the Ministry of Education, which defines the general norms and guidelines of a pedagogical nature for pre-school education. Thus, curricular guidelines for pre-school education emphasize that there is a unit throughout childhood pedagogy and that work with children of day-to-day age and pre-school education has common foundations, and should be guided by the same educational principles. As such, these foundations derive from articulated operating principles that correspond to a certain perspective on how children develop and learn, in which care and education are interconnected. From this framework it is clear that, from the pedagogical point of view, it is advantageous and necessary to have a comprehensive and integrated analysis of childhood education, corresponding to the period from 0 to 6 years of age. More than a protective definition, it is important to take steps towards this pedagogical integration, ensuring educational intent in day care and educational continuity in pre-school education. It was in this sense that the Ministry of Education approved the pedagogical guidelines for pre-school education, working together with the government area of social security, in the production of pedagogical guidelines for day care, thus ensuring a pedagogical set in the guidelines that fit education from 0 to 6 years of age. In view of the above and given that the offer of daycare is not an educational offer, as well as the fact that the organization is distinct, do they not consider it to be a priority to focus the debate on education in childhood in the educational field? On the other hand, it is important to note that the current organization of these social responses already includes the pedagogical project and a diversity of resources where children are included. in this path of right direction and in another dimension, in the search for solutions, it is therefore necessary to reaffirm that the Socialist Party has launched the principle of freeness of day care and density of its coverage. We believe that they agree with this principle and recognize the measure. It is never too much to remember that, in September 2022, daycare centers will become free for all children born after September 1, 2021... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Ah!...]] [[IL protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u133	... and that, in response to the lack of coverage, the Government is prioritising investments in day care offers through PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ) and PARES 2.0 ( Social Equipment Network Enlargement Programme 2nd Generation ) with the immediate creation of 6090 new places. I shall finish, Mr President, with a word for the initiatives of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival. The recommendation to the Government to alter the designation of the Ministry of Education for the Ministry of Education is as follows : lays down Article 182. that of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic which the Government is the governing body of the general policy of the country and the higher body of the Public Administration, having exclusive legislative competence in matters relating to its own organization and operation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u134	That is why it is a draft resolution! Don't you know the difference? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u135	With regard to the draft law which aims to create a new regime for the discipline of Citizenship and Development, I conclude by quoting the Minister of Education, who stressed the importance of the area of citizenship in the school curriculum, «not as a set of contents that we memorize and forget five days after the test, transforming the school into a silence space whose aim is only to form encyclopedias with legs, who know some things, but who are unable to look around, to interpret the world and act in freedom and conscience». [[CH Member Protests Bruno Nunes.]] But citizenship is a commitment to an experience in which we take care of each other, so that we can act as citizens, as part of a community.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u136	What a mess going on in that head!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u137	Moreover: as an integral part of a community able to interpret and decide for itself, tolerant, inclusive and who knows and likes to live in democracy, because being a citizen is not an option of life. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u138	You have to teach us to be citizens!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u139	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Joana Barata Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing today a series of diplomas that arrive at the Plenary on the basis of a petition — and I am now using to greet the petitioners, through the Association of Children's Education Professionals — who entered the previous legislature on 18 March 2021. At that time, the PSD Parliamentary Group delivered a draft resolution that went exactly the same way as those requested by the petitioners: the inclusion of 0 to 3 years in the education system, regardless of the entities responsible for its promotion. It is true that the various projects that accompanied the petition were not discussed in plenary at that time—we are now discussing them—but the PSD abdicated from this discussion and vote to ensure that, even in the previous legislature, it would be possible to discuss this issue in committee, which is of greatest relevance and importance. As we have said, it is worth recalling that, as the petitioners say, there is a set of recommendations from the European Union and the National Council of Education that all of us are here. Members spoke globally. It is one of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals to preserve education for children and we have always " fought to develop a policy for children" — I am quoting our draft resolution. In addition, we have presented a study on a policy for childhood, so that freeness is ensured without the obligation of frequency of children's education establishments as quickly as possible. It is still — and I cannot but mention — the best opportunity to remove from poverty a number of children who, between 0 and 3 years of age, do not have a continuing education. therefore we are also the inclusion of 0 to 3 years and the amendment of the Basic Law of the Educational System. The truth is that there are a number of proposals that concern, globally, the need for inclusion from 0 to 3 years, for childhood education, in the Basics Law of the Educational System and that are then mostly accompanied by the need to say that this has to be in a public form. Let's be clear: PSD is for the free of charge of day care centers, but they don't have to be public, they have to provide the service. Even because, like the ladies and gentlemen. Members know, says the 2020 Social Charter, that the national coverage available today is 48%.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u141	All right! [[Protests by PS Member Berta Nunes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u142	Therefore, it is not serious to say that we have time to study this year when we could already be implementing.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u143	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u144	And we could do that because, within the budget of the State, the PSD presented, precisely, two proposals in which it included, in one of them, the freeness of daycare facilities in the immediate future, which would come into force with this budget. Of course, the Socialist Party voted against, even though there in the rostrum it said it was thanks to the Socialist Party that there is free.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u145	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u146	In fact, as you talked about progress—it is true that, having come from a proposal originally from the CFP—but that not only is it progressive, as it once again has a markedly ideological component, leaving out the offer that the country has and which, nevertheless, is clearly insufficient. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to note that this is particularly serious, but not just because of what Mr Socialists said. Whoever didn’t know would think that it was the PS that introduced the free day care center and that this was already a gift acquired in this country, which is not. It’s not! There is still a need to regulate how little is already available. But in addition, we are talking about a Socialist Party that used the freeness of daycare in its electoral campaign, in order to electrarily captivate the Portuguese, and that then, at the time when it was called to vote, he was unable to comply with such a given word, which is not an honest word. [[PSD applause.]] There are still two proposals under discussion, from the coming party, and I just wanted to say that we will not hinder the one concerning citizenship education, in fact, as we will not hinder the others. However, those who have heard would also think that it is the coming party who is concerned about the education of citizenship and that we are not hostage to ideological impositions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u147	And it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u148	Yesterday Mr Mithá Ribeiro said that he knew what it was to be a teacher and that we were all sitting here. I don't want to believe that in your classes, Mr. Professor Mithá Ribeiro is not able to give a poem by Manuel Alegre and a poem by the healthy Vasco Graza Moura in the same way or to intrude, yes, that must be the critical spirit in Portuguese students. They actually said they were defending the teachers, but they're not. They are questioning the overallity of the work and the professionalism of the teachers. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u149	Finally, Mr President, I must say that the Social Democratic Party gave rise to a resolution in 2015, just to review the education of citizenship—it is only to consult Parliament's database — where it asked for further reflection on the curriculum and better training for those who provide it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u150	And that means what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u151	In conclusion, I meant that we were used to having the extreme left always come with new names to reinvent and rewrite the story. In fact, it is only another form of formatting, which is the same as we see in this draft resolution of the Arrival, with the change of the name of the Ministry. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u152	For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The social rights and social functions of the State are not a business, they are fundamental rights of children, families and citizens of our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u154	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u155	It is in this sense that the proposal of the CFP is to guarantee fundamental rights for children and families. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we also remember that it was not the PCP that introduced the need to ensure the freeness of day care as a child's right, but no one else would have done so, because they did not do so before in this House of the Republic. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u156	Neither PS, nor PSD, nor the parties to the right of the PSD did it or brought the discussion before the PCP put this need as urgent, to respond to the needs of families. Mrs. Joana Barata Lopes, let me remind you that many problems families may face next September are the direct responsibility of the PSD. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u157	It was the PSD that gave the PS to not ensure the freeness for children in a much wider way, so at the moment, children can be out of that freeness. [[PCP applause.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]] The PS and PSD have given their hand in this response in the latest legislation. To conclude, I would like to ask: Mr Fernando José, in the face of the lack of vacancies that exist, in the face of the needs of families and considering the right to day care as a right of children, what use is the Socialist Party going to make of the absolute majority that it has today? The PS will guarantee this right to children and families or will continue to deny it, how have you done so far? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u158	Madam Member, it is not enough to say that you will conclude. You really need to conclude when you say you will. We therefore conclude this item on the agenda, to which the vote on the Rules of Procedure follows. I ask the services to close the quorum verification and to advertise the result. [[Pause.]] We have quorum, but I wonder if any Member of Parliament or some Member of Parliament has not been able to register. [[Pause.]] All of them were able to register, so we will then begin the votes. Mr Rui Tavares asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u159	Mr President, it is to make an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u160	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u161	Mr President, I have a computer problem that will probably affect other Members who need the monitor to follow your voting table. It's usually the services... Ah! Now it is possible to minimize the window, but it was not before, and this is essential for voting. It's settled. [[Repeals of CH Deputies.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u162	The question is solved and the comments made by it are duly made. We begin with the Vote Project No 103 / XV / 1. a ( presented by the Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport and subscribed by the PSD ) — Congratulations to the Orchestra Without Borders for the award of the European Carlos Magno Prize for Youth 2022, which will be read by Ms. Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u163	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The Orchestra Without Borders, a symphonic project directed by the master Martim Sousa Tavares, based in Idanha-a-Nova, in the district of Castelo Branco, won the Carlos Magno European Prize for Youth 2022. This award, created in 2008 and managed by the European Parliament, in partnership with the Carlos Magno International Prize Foundation, highlights the daily work carried out by young people to strengthen European democracy, supporting their active participation in the construction of the future of Europe. The Orchestra Without Borders was born in 2019 to support and set the young talent within the country, fighting for the abandonment of music teaching, giving access to culture, presenting free concerts in localities of the interior raiano, promoting the values of cooperation and cross-border integration. Its main activity is the presentation of concerts, which has already been carried out in 73 locations in Portugal, Spain and Brazil. All programming is free, privileged in concerts the contact between students and young professionals and recognized professionals, invited to share their experience. The Orchestra Without Borders considers the training activity an essential complement to its activity, so it integrates masterclasses and several other initiatives related to musical pedagogy. In order to bring classical music to the parish at risk of social and cultural exclusion, he created the Marathonas Program with the Bolso Orchestra in which, in partnership with the municipalities, four villages are chosen for concerts during a weekend. For many of them, this is the first chance to contact classical live music. This orchestra, composed of more than 150 young musicians, in the performance of their mission, is a vehicle promoting social and territorial cohesion. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic greets and congratulates the Orchestra without Borders for obtaining the Carlos Magno European Prize and for the very worthy work done in the interior communities. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u164	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Following the Vote Project No 105 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PS, PSD, CH, IL, PCP, BE, L and PAN ) — Greetings for the National Day of Religious Freedom and Interreligious Dialogue, which will be read by Mrs Lina Lopes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « On June 22, the National Day of Freedom and Interreligious Dialogue was celebrated. This day was instituted by Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 86 -A / 2019, on an initiative that achieved the unanimous approval of all parties with parliamentary representation. With this resolution, it was intended to celebrate and highlight the fundamental importance of the values of religious freedom and the triptych of rights in which one can unfold — freedom of conscience, religion and worship — contributing to a more lively awareness of the whole society about the central place that these values and practices occupy in the democratic and tolerant society we want to be. Religious freedom in Portugal finds in our legal order a framework conducive to its protection, which is reflected in everyday practice, allowing us to be proud of being one of the countries with the greatest religious freedom in the world. In fact, this framework constitutes key parts of the consecration of religious freedom as a fundamental inviolable right in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic of 1976 and the instruments of international law that bind the Portuguese State, such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the European Convention on Human Rights or the United Nations Declaration, and more recently the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. At the internal level, it is to highlight the approval of the Law of Religious Freedom of 2001, whose symbolic importance is evident in the choice of the date of its approval, June 22, to celebrate this National Day of Religious Freedom and Interreligious Dialogue, having become a structural law of the democratic regime. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, welcomes the National Day of Religious Freedom and Interreligious Dialogue, a reflection of the appreciation of religions within the framework of Portuguese democracy, in respect of pluralism, equality and tolerance due in a secular state. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u166	We shall proceed to the vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read out. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] I would like to welcome the presence of Mr. Maestro Martim Sousa Tavares and representatives of the Orchestra, as well as a delegation of the Committee on Religious Freedom, who attended these two votes. [[General applause, stand up.]] Mrs. Members, with regard to the general vote on the various draft laws tabled on the amendment to the Nationality Law, the Bureau received as many requests as projects so that they could be brought down, without a vote, to its committee. We shall therefore vote overall on the requests made: For the PSD, applying for discharge to the competent parliamentary committee, without a 30-day vote of Bill No. 40 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Tenth amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October approving the Law of Nationality, repealing Article 14. the law; For the PCP, requesting a discharge from the competent parliamentary committee, without a 30-day vote of Bill No 28 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — determines the expiry of the Portuguese nationality concession scheme by mere effect of the descent of Sephardic Jews expelled from Portugal in 1496 ( 10th amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October approving the Nationality Law ) ; For BE, requesting the discharge of the competent parliamentary committee, without a 30-day vote of Bill No 122 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Alter the Nationality Law and the Regulation of the Registers and Notary(Tenth amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October and 37. the amendment to Decree-Law No 322 -A / 2001 of 14 December ; By L, requesting the competent parliamentary committee to be discharged without a 30-day vote of Bill No. 126/XV/1.a (L) — Amendment to Law No. 37/81 of 3 October in its current wording, which approves the Nationality Law-revocation of the norm that makes the effects of nationality of the affiliation established during the minority and 127 / XV/1. a (L) — Amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October, in its current wording, approving the Nationality Law - updating of the requirements of the granting of nationality by naturalization to descendants of Portuguese Sephardic Jews; For the IL, applying for discharge to the competent parliamentary committee, without a 30-day vote of Bill No 132 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Tenth amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October which proves the Law of Nationality; For the PS, requesting a discharge from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without a 30-day vote of Bill No 133 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Defines the circumstances in which the affiliation established after the minority may have an effect on nationality by making the tenth amendment to the Nationality Law, as approved by Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October; And by the NAP, requesting the discharge to the competent parliamentary committee, without a 60-day vote of Bill No 134 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Revoke Article 14. the Law No. 37 / 81 of 3 October, which approves the Law of Nationality. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Bills are thus down to 1. the Commission. The general vote of Bill No. 809 / XIV / 2 is followed. a (Citizens) — National and international political education. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The initiative goes down to 8.The Commission. We proceed to the general vote of Bill No 115 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Evaluation and recognition of Polytechnic Higher Education, recognizing the possibility of conferring the degree of doctor. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the PSD.]] The initiative goes down to 8.The Commission. We now vote in general on Bill No 125 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Creates the possibility of administration of doctors in the polytechnic higher education subsystem by amending the Basic Law of the Education System and the Legal Regime of Higher Education Institutions. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the PSD.]] The initiative goes down to 8.The Commission. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 54 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the elimination of the administrative imposition of vacancies for progression at 5. a is 7. the steps of the teaching career. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected, votes against the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the PSD.]] Mrs. Members, we will vote on draft resolution No 56 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Removing obstacles to teacher progression to 5. a is 7. The steps. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected, votes against the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the PSD.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 80 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Revocation of the current access system to 5. a is 7. the escalations of the teaching career, beginning with the change of the Status of the Career of Children Educators and Teachers of Basic and Secondary Education. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected, votes against the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the PSD.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 57 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PCP ) — Requalification of CI8. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote for draft resolution No 68 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends that the Government requalify the CI8. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE and the PAN, and abstentions of the CFP and the L.]] [[Shame!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u167	We shall proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 70 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Urgent requalification of CI8. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This initiative is down to 6. the Commission, like the previous ones which have been approved on the same subject. We now vote in general on Resolution Project No 77 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of requalification measures for CI8. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The initiative goes down to 6. the Commission. We will generally vote on the Resolution Project No 83 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Urgent requalification of IC8. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This initiative is down to 6. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 86 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government urgently implement the portion of the CI8 between Pombal and Avelar ( Ansion ), including defrosting the accesses, and undertakes the cabimentation of the necessary financial resources. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The initiative goes down to 6. the Commission. The general vote of Bill No 103 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( IL) — Ensures the independence of regulatory entities ( fourth amendment to the Framework Law on Regulatory Entities, as annexed to Law No 67 / 2013 of 28 August ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the BE were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH, the IL and the NAP and the L abstention.]] We now vote in general on Bill No 112 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Rules the procedure for the dissolution of the Board of Directors of the regulatory entities and for the individual removal of their members, on the basis of justified grounds. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PS, the CFP and the L, votes against the CH and the NAP and abstentions against the IL and the BE.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 121 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Amend the model for the appointment of the Governing Councils of regulatory entities in order to ensure greater transparency and respect for gender equality by amending the Framework Law of Regulatory Entities. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the IL and the CFP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH, the NAP and the L and the AE abstained.]] We shall generally vote for Law No 12 / XV71. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 884 as regards the exchange of information on third-country nationals. [[The vote was taken by votes to PS, PSD and PAN, votes against the PCP and BE and abstentions to CH, IL and L.]] The initiative goes down to 1. the Commission. We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 105 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — The sixth amendment is made to the Environmental Impact Assessment Legal Scheme, approved by Decree-Law No 151 - B / 2013 of 31 October 2013. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PAN and L, and abstention from the CFP.]] We generally vote on the Resolution Project No 75 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Update of the list of species at risk and in the pathways of extinction and National Register of Classified Natural Values. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP, the L and the abstention from the PSD.]] The initiative is thus down to 11. the Commission. The general vote on draft resolution No 81 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PSD ) — Protect Protected Areas. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The initiative goes down to 11. the Commission. We will vote for the Resolution Project No 82 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government issue a new dispatch of the time limits for compensation for damage to animals caused by the lobe-bieric and awareness-raising for the adoption of preventive measures to avoid wolf attacks. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This project goes down to 11. the Commission. Mr Bruno Dias, however, asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u168	Mr President, it is only to contribute to an aspect which I think is worth noting.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u169	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u170	Mr President, the last three draft resolutions of the NAP and of the PSD are, each of them, by autonomous themes and, eventually, not on common subjects, they may continue to be published. Unless, by analogy, the legislative procedure is applied and there is a point-to-point vote to be evaluated.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u171	Of course, 11th. the Commission will have very good notice of this judicious remark. I also assume that wolves and wolves are different species.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u172	They're not.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u173	Aren't they?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u174	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u175	All right. We then proceed to the general vote of Bill No 75 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Creates the public day care network program. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the IL were rejected in favour of the CFP, BE, NAP and L and abstentions from the PSD and CH.]] Mr. Miguel Costa Matos asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u176	Mr. President, it is to announce that I will present a written vote statement on behalf of the eight militant members of Socialist Youth, namely: Miguel Rodrigues, Tiago Soares Monteiro, Pedro Anastácio, Joana Sá Pereira, Francisco Dinis, Eunice Platas, Eduardo Alves and myself.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u177	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will generally vote for Bill No. 101 / XV / 1. a (CH) — New legal system for teaching and organizing the discipline and curriculum area of citizenship and development (CD) in basic and secondary schools. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L were rejected, votes against the CH and abstentions against the PSD and the IL.]] The general vote of Bill No 104 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (PAN) — It creates an education system for childhood that guarantees the inclusion of children from 0 to 3 years of age in the education system, amending the Basic Law of the Educational System, approved by Law No 46 / 86 of 14 October. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]] We then generally vote for Bill No. 120 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — proposes the creation of a public network of day care centres as a way to guarantee the rights of children. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the IL were rejected in favour of the CFP, BE, NAP and L and abstentions from the PSD and CH.]] We will now vote, in general, on Bill No. 129 / XV / 1. a (L) — Amendment to Law 46 / 86, of 14 October, in its current wording, which approves the Basic Law of the Educational System - inclusion of education in the first childhood in the education system and creation of a public education network in the first childhood. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]] The vote on draft resolution No 72 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Recommends that the Government amend the designation of the Ministry of Education for the Ministry of Education. [[Subject to the vote, the PS, PS, IL, PCP, BE, PAN and L were rejected and votes in favour of the CH.]] The vote on draft resolution No 79 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government create a mechanism for the participation of registration and frequency costs for children entering private establishment due to the absence of public supply and initiate the process of setting up a public day care network. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of CH, IL, PAN and L and abstentions from PSD, PCP and BE.]] Mrs Diana Ferreira asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u178	Mr President, it is to be announced that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on draft resolution No 79 / XV / 1. a ( PAN).
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u179	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We will now vote for draft resolution No 87 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Strengthen the storage capacity of the albums by points, as required by the PSD and accepted by the rest of the benches. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we started by voting on point 1. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] The vote on point 2 shall follow. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP and the L and abstentions of BE and the NAP.]] The vote on point 3 shall follow. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and L were rejected in favour of the PSD, the CH and the PCP and IL, the BE and the NAP abstentions.]] This draft resolution was thus rejected in all its points. If there are no opinions to vote, we shall read the dossier by the Secretary of the Bureau, who will also inform us whether there are any Members. Members who are taking part in the session remotely.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u180	Mr President, I am going to announce to the House that they have entered the Bureau, and were admitted by Mr President, the following initiatives : Bill No 13 / XV / 1. a ( ALRAM ), which falls to 10. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission ; Draft Law Nos 182 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission, and 183 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 10. the Commission, in connection with 9. the Commission ; and draft resolution No 132 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission. I also report that, as a result of being in prophylactic isolation, we are accompanied by videoconferencing by Mrs Rita Matias of the Czech Republic and Mr Joaquim Sarmento of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-24.u181	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the next plenary meeting will be on Wednesday, 29 June. on the agenda, shall include the debate on the priorities of the Czech Presidency, with the participation of the Government, as provided for in Article 4(1) ( c ). the Law of Monitoring, Appreciation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Union Construction Process. In the second point, we will have the debate on the instruments of economic governance of the European Union, with the participation of the Government, as provided for in Article 4(1) ( e ). that of the same law. At the third point, the Bill No 108 / XV / 1 will be discussed. a ( PS ) — Strengthens the safeguard of public interest, autonomy and independence of regulation and promotion of access to professional activities by amending Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January and Law No 53 / 2015 of 11 June together with the Lein.o 9 / XV / 1 Projects. a ( PAN) — Establishs the mandatory remuneration of professional internships for access to the exercise of the profession, making the first amendment to Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January and the statutes of various professional public associations, 177 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — eliminate unjustified restrictions on access to regulated professions and set limits on the duration and organization of internships and 178 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Regulatory reform of professional public associations, combating corporateism and democratization of access to professions (first amendment to Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 ), which accompany it by dragging. The Bill No. 141 / XV / 1 will also be discussed. a ( CH) — Amend the Charter of Fundamental Rights in the Digital Age to ensure compliance with the right to freedom of expression, together with the Drafts of Law No 179 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Protects freedom of expression online and 180 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Simplifies the regime of protection against misinformation, ensuring its articulation with the European Plan of Action against Disinformation, making the first amendment to Law No 27 / 2021 of 17 May, which approves the Portuguese Charter of Human Rights in the Digital Age, which follow it by drag. Very good weekend to all and live the Saint John, at least for the deputies of the Port, of Braga and there. [[General applause.]] The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 57 minutes.]]
