ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. We already have quorum and all parliamentary groups and the government are properly represented, so I declare open the sitting. [[It was 10 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. Let's start our work with file reading. You have the floor for this purpose, Mrs Palmira Maciel.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u2	Mr President, I am going to announce the non-admission of draft resolution No 311 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — proposes the conduct of a referendum on the non-punitability of death assisted medicine when practiced or assisted by health professionals by the decision of the person himself, greater, whose will is current and repeated, serious, free and informed, in situations of suffering of great intensity, with definitive injury of extreme gravity or serious and incurable disease. I now announce that you have entered the Bureau and was admitted by Mr President, Bill No. 395 / XV / 1. a ( PS ), which drops to 1. the Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u3	Mr Joaquim Pinto Moreira is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u4	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u5	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u6	Mr President, as you all know, the Social Democratic Party has submitted a draft resolution to the referendum institute on the death of assisted medicine. Mr President — and indeed from a regulatory point of view — called for an extraordinary Leaders Conference to assess whether or not this PSD draft resolution is admissible. After listening to all parties with parliamentary seats, you gave notice of non-acceptability of the draft resolution of the euthanasia referendum presented by the PSD and substantiated, soon at the time, if I allow this expression more plebial, the non-acceptability, given that there is objective identity and no circumstances that have altered that same non-acceptability and therefore the repetition of the same procedure in view of the rejection of the previous proposal. in this same act, at the Conference of Leaders, the Social Democratic Party resorted to this order of non-acceptability that you founded. At the beginning of the plenary session of Wednesday itself, which took place at the Extraordinary Leaders Conference, the PSD, at its plenary session, appealed for your decision under Article 126 ( 3 ). The Rules of Procedure shall be 1. the Commission shall assess, within 48 hours, the action submitted by the PSD. After almost 48 hours, because it was Wednesday, Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic has not yet sent to 1. the Commission's appeal for the purpose of drawing up the opinion. Therefore, Mr President, I believe that we are here at risk of consolidating a legislative process of euthanasia without prior decision in relation to the non-acceptability of the draft resolution of the PSD, which in fact defends the institution of the referendum for the specific case. I believe, Mr President, and I should like to say this with all my head in this House, that you did not act with due diligence, because you did not send our request for assessment within the framework of 1. the Commission. Mr President must in fact be the guarantor of the proper compliance with the Rules of Procedure, in our view he must be the first defender of respect for the defence of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic ( RAR ) and I clearly believe that in this particular case he has failed to comply with the applicable rules of procedure. I must also say, with all due respect, that you are the President of the Assembly of the Republic and the President of all parliamentary groups sitting in this House in this Chamber. He is not the President of the Assembly of the Republic of the Socialist Party. It cannot, in fact, be partial in any way in this process. It must act with neutrality, impartiality and fairness in the face of the concrete positions of each of the parties seated in this same Chamber. Mr President, I regret that, in this particular case, you have not, clearly, dismissed the Socialist Party's shirt. I therefore ask in a very concrete and very direct way, which was the objective reason why Mr President of the Republic did not send to 1. the Commission's appeal to the Democratic Social Party in view of its failure to accept the draft resolution of the referendum on euthanasia and what circumstances have determined this non-shipment, so that we do not in fact run the risk of having a consolidated legislative process concerning euthanasia without a final decision of this Plenary on the non-acceptability of the draft referendum submitted by the PSD. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. I shall then give the clarifications that you have requested. The Social Democratic Party publicly announced the presentation of a draft resolution for a referendum on euthanasia last Monday. Last Tuesday, 6th day, he delivered this project to the Assembly of the Republic. At lunch on 7th, I received the technical note on the admissibility of the services — which always accompanies the draft laws and resolutions that are present to me for admission or not, and on that very day 7th, at 14th and 30 minutes, I convened an extraordinary meeting of the Conference of Leaders. So, as much diligence as possible. in this Conference of Leaders, I heard the different parliamentary groups on a specific subject, because the doctrine has long been consolidated on what we should understand by legislative session. The presentation of the PSD initiative meant the repetition at the same legislative session of another initiative already discussed and appreciated in this House. The doctrine is also clear—there are judgments of the Constitutional Court and, before it, of the Constitutional Commission, which also make this issue absolutely clear— what should be understood by identity of initiative. It is not necessarily subjective identity, but objective identity, the content of each initiative. It is also absolutely clear that this identity of content does not mean the repetition, word for word, of a previous initiative. However, the doctrine also admits that there may be a change of circumstances such that the return to a subject which the Assembly of the Republic has already considered at the same legislative session may be justified. It was also what we did in September when we discussed a proposal for a government law which, among other measures, proposed a fall in the VAT rate (value added tax) and, at the same time, we admitted other bills from different parliamentary groups, also proposing changes in VAT rates, precisely because the same radical circumstances we all know — inflation, rising energy prices, etc. — which had justified the action of the Government could justify that the Assembly of the Republic should resume the discussion of initiatives it had already taken. I was careful to ask, at the Conference of Leaders, whether any parliamentary group would object to this canal interpretation which I would do of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and have taken care of - exactly so that there is no doubt about it. No parliamentary group was opposed. It was therefore unanimously that we felt that there was such a serious and strong change of circumstances that it was worth returning to the discussion of initiatives that we had already appreciated in this legislative session. That is precisely why, in order to be consistent, I called on the Conference of Extraordinary Leaders and asked the same question: if the parliamentary groups understood that there had been such an amendment of circumstances that the same principle could be applied. The honourable Member was present at the Conference of Leaders and therefore knows that several parliamentary groups, representing, in fact, three fifths of the Members of this House, opposed this understanding. Only the PSD understood that one could argue in favour of changing circumstances. Soon after the Conference of Leaders, I gave the order to refuse the project—again again, maximum diligence, no time lost. As I understand that the Rules of Procedure are an instrument for our work and for political debate, even allowing the PSD to appeal immediately at the plenary session on 7th. Mrs Paula Cardoso asked for the floor to announce this appeal, I gave her the floor and the appeal was announced. I asked the PSD to write down this appeal so that I could continue the work, which implies taking the opinion of the Standing Committee. Last night, he was on vacation. Today morning, when I arrived at the office, I had the PSD feature, which I had already dispatched to 1. the Commission, therefore, was even dispatched before it was announced in plenary that the project was not admitted. Once again, if I can be criticized for something, it is because I am running the Rules of Procedure in the interests of this process to be as fast and as transparent as possible. Therefore, before my decision to not admit was communicated to the House, the PSD had filed an appeal and I had sent that appeal to the Commission. The Commission now has 48 hours to speak, and the next plenary shall vote on the appeal brought by the PSD. This is how Article 126 provides. in paragraphs 1 to 3, which states that when the President does not admit, he shall communicate the matter to the Assembly. The fact has been reported now. The party concerned may appeal, which the PSD has already done. The President asked the Commission for its opinion on this appeal, which the President has already done. The plenary will then decide and the plenary will be sovereign. See, therefore, Mr President, how excessive the considerations that you have allowed yourself to make about my conduct and about the shirts you have seen or disposed of, but let us forget them, because what matters is that the House is following its own Rules of Procedure and we are in a position to continue our work. As for the time that your party has chosen to use this right, this is a decision of your party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u8	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u9	Mr Joaquim Pinto Moreira wants to make another appeal to the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u10	Exactly, Mr. President, if I may.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u11	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u12	Mr President, I have listened to you with particular attention and let me tell you, because you have entered this discussion, that your decision not to be admissible is absolutely inconsistent with the positions...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u13	Mr President, I am very sorry, but you are not going to go on like this.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u14	Excuse me, Mr President, but you have addressed the matter of the substance, so it will allow me to also address the matter of the substance.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u15	I am very sorry, but we are not going to discuss the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution here, because it is not up to me to do this. It is up to me to enforce the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. That's what I do. The party that you belong to did not agree with my decision. It's your right. He appealed. He did very well. The appeal will now be examined by the competent Commission and then the plenary will decide. We are not going to discuss the terms in which the appeal is made here.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u16	V. Ex. is that you discussed exactly those terms. V. Ex.a. submitted these terms. [[Don't! Don't!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u17	Let us see the following, Mr President: with all due respect for your opinion, I must say that, in the specific case, you would have no other reason and other way of acting than to admit, in fact, the PSD's requirement regarding the consecration of the referendum institute and our draft resolution. First, there is no subjective identity. We are different bidders. Secondly, there is no objective or material identity. The referendum proposals — presented by the Arrival in July, and now presented by the PSD — are substantially different, as it is, in fact, the result of the appeal we have tabled. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u18	And we have only tabled our question now, which is substantially different from the one presented by the Arrival, after consolidating the legislative process within the framework of 1. the Commission. [[Protests by PS Member Isabel Alves Moreira.]] It was based on the excellent work on this subject produced in 1. the Commission, which the Social Democratic Party asked a concrete, real and objective question addressed to the Portuguese. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u19	And you, Ex.A., the Socialist Party and, by now, your accomplice — of your wedding of convenience — the Arrival — are completely afraid of that will. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS and CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u20	Look, look! That's what's missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u21	I know, Mr. President, what the Socialist Party's excuse is. The Socialist Party has no moral authority or political legitimacy to move forward with the euthanasia process, because the elections were presented, the suffrage was presented on January 30th, without having this project...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u22	Sir, will you excuse me?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u23	... without having this idea shaped,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u24	Sir, will you excuse me?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u25	I'm done now, Mr. President. I said that the PS presented itself with suffrage without having this project shaped in its electoral program.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u26	Would you excuse me?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u27	I know what you're sorry about the Socialist Party!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u28	Don't excuse me. The honourable Member is now presiding over the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u29	I'm done, Mr. President. The Socialist Party's apology is that this is a problem of consciousness for each of our fellow citizens. Now, if it is a problem of conscience, who is the Socialist Party to be proud of each Portuguese's conscience? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests, having MPs punched their hands in the tops of the benches.]] The will and awareness of the Portuguese must be measured through the referendum institute. Only there will we know what the real will of the Portuguese is. [[PSD applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u30	Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves is asking for a word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u31	For an appeal to the Bureau, in the context of the ongoing discussion, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u32	I hope it will be brought to the Bureau and on the conduct of the work. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u33	It is about the conduct of the work and I shall be telegraphy, Mr President. Having raised this incident by the PSD Parliamentary Group — despite the very thorough and obvious demonstration by Mr President of the significant determination to deal with matters which, even before being formalised, have already taken the following two procedural steps and are more advanced than would have been if the moment had been expected, as was clear and Mr President noted — what is serious and we just wanted to emphasise is that it cannot be used at 27. the time, to an institute that deserves another dignity, which is the institute of the referendum, to try to provoke postponement of a vote. That is what you are concerned about, Mr President. Whether or not we can discuss the admissibility of the PSD project. There are legal arguments on the part of the PSD to which we do not agree, to which Mr President gave a very thorough answer. Another very clear thing, which apparently the PSD wants us all to forget, is that, even if admitted, the PSD project could not be scheduled for this Friday, since it did not meet the minimum of any regiment deadlines to be scheduled. He did not fulfil any of the demands of having to be appreciated in 1. the Commission has not complied with any of the requirements which the referendum law itself admits to be called into question if it has to do with the current legislative procedure. Therefore, even if you were right on this point, which is still not clear from the speech that you have just made that your aim is to prevent this House, which you have decided to, after making a legislative process in which the PSD Parliamentary Group participated with dignity in parliamentary work, which was voted on on on the date on which it was set for months to be scheduled. This is the grave precedent we wanted to underline. We do not bring an initiative three days from the vote, Mr President. I repeat, three days from the vote, because Monday was the third useful day before today's Friday, an initiative whose sole purpose would be to postpone a vote, with the aggravating that this matter was voted on in June, when the legislative process was already at a ripening stage, and for which there is no change of substance today. [[Protests by CH Member Pedro dos Santos Frazão.]] So in this sense, of course, that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group — and I think many others in the House — would have no difficulty in returning to the vote in June.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u34	In fact, that is why this is in the Constitution!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u35	They haven't changed their mind, they're not catavents on this subject and they would surely vote in the same direction, refusing the referendum. We would have all the willingness to do so, because it is not a matter of substance, it is not a problem or an allergy to vote or reject a referendum. That is why the point is not, the point is that the main objective of the initiative that the PPD / PSD today puts on the table is to postpone a vote in an extraordinarily illegitimate way, under the penalty of opening a precedent in which, now, whenever we do not like a vote, we enter, three days before, a project to carry out a referendum and prevent their constitutional voting. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u36	I would ask the floor to defend the honour, Mr President, if I may. [[PS, PCP and BE protests.]] I know...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u37	Sir, I haven't given you the floor yet. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u38	If you will allow me, Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u39	No, I have not yet given you the floor, Mr President. The honourable Member asks for the floor to defend the honour. If it is the defence of personal honor, it must be done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, if I recall at the end of the session, but the services will check in the meantime.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u40	Afternoon!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u41	Next to dinner!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u42	The defense of honor is from the bench, it's not personal, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u43	Do you want to defend the honor of the bench? So you have that right. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your deference, indeed, as a regiment. I shall be very brief on the issue of the time when we present our draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u45	But is that a matter of the honor of the bench? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u46	The PSD has just been accused of presenting its draft resolution, in which it proposes the conduct of a referendum, out of time. I would like to tell Mr President and the House that the PSD presented its draft resolution at the time it presented because the whole process was effectively consolidated.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u47	I was already there!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u48	That's not true! The process was only consolidated last week at 1. the Commission, with the presentation of a last amendment to the text which was under discussion in the field of speciality. Therefore, only after discussion and appreciation at 1. the Commission is that the PSD actually presented its draft referendum resolution, precisely because it took into account and valued the work of 1. the Commission. [[Protests by PS Member Isabel Alves Moreira.]] Our very objective question is strictly in line with the text approved at the specialist level in 1. the Commission, and this is the right moment. We must not forget, Mr President, and now I would like to tell you something more concrete about the changes in circumstances, that this is indeed an amendment of circumstances which you have acknowledged in the Conference of Leaders as an amendment of internal circumstances, but which is not, Mr President. It's not! [[Protests by PS Member Isabel Alves Moreira.]] This is because what has been decided on in the Commission validates a whole legislative process that will be effective externally. And our question is addressed to the Portuguese, to whom you are so afraid to resort in this particular case. [[PSD applause.]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u49	Finally, Mr President, it is not in fact clear that the current President of the PSD has always been a defender of the referendum institute in this process. [[Protests by PS Member Isabel Alves Moreira.]] Therefore, there was a change of circumstances also in this area, because there was a change of leadership of the party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u50	Mr. Deputies, you've exceeded your time. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u51	The former president of the party...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u52	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u53	Mr. President, allow me. I'll be right there. [[PS protests.]] The former President of the Social Democratic Party had a different view, the current President of the Social Democratic Party has another view and has always defended the referendum in these circumstances. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u54	To give satisfaction, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u55	Mr President, with extraordinary difficulty, since not only did I not identify a violation of honour in the initial intervention as I did not detect any claim of violation of honor at this point, in this context, not wanting and not replicating a substantive debate, which is not today and will be done in 1. the Commission and when the appeal is appreciated, I give only one, I would not call it friend advice, not that, but would only give an institutional loyalty council: when you are in a hole, stop digging! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u56	Therefore, in the only areas of interest to the President of the Assembly of the Republic, the President of the Assembly of the Republic did not admit a draft resolution because this draft resolution seemed manifestly unconstitutional to him. The proposers have appealed, the President of the Assembly of the Republic has sent the appeal to the respective committee, and we will therefore await the opinion of that committee. Putting this on, let's start our work. The first point consists in the general assessment of the Bill No 40 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to review the legislation relating to the activity of collective investment agencies. To present the bill, Mr. Secretary of State for Finance, João Nuno Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A diversified financial system is essential in a developed economy. Companies need adequate conditions to capitalise or finance themselves. That's the only way they can innovate and grow. Increasing productivity and the scale of national enterprises requires investment. The management of assets, in particular the collective management of assets, plays a specific role within the financial system. Collective asset management has shown, in structural terms, an increasing importance in saving. By continuing to the process initiated with the concentration of supervisory powers in the CMVM (the Securities Market Commission), the regulatory framework for the management of collective investment agencies is now being modernised and simplified. The initiative proposed by the Government to approve, with the authorization requested by this House, aims to strengthen the consistency and proportionality of the legislation and to reduce the complexity and costs of the national regulatory framework, thus improving the efficiency and competitiveness of the activity. Therefore, all collective asset management will become governed by a single legal regime, no longer existing division between risk capital, specialised investment and other collective investment agencies. This option ensures greater consistency and unity of regulatory policy, also increasing the legal certainty and certainty of the applicable framework. The simplified regime applicable to the access and exercise of the business of management companies is also extended, which is currently only intended for risk capital, improving the proportionality and consistency of our legislation. This simplified scheme will therefore enable the management of other alternative investment agencies — for example, real estate — when the value of the assets under management does not exceed EUR 100 million or EUR 500 million, depending on whether or not the leverage is used, allowing the regulatory burden to be adjusted to the level of risk, increasing from the moment it exceeds those thresholds. It also promotes a reduction and simplification of regulatory charges, seeking to meet the best standards of reference. The aim was thus to define shorter and more in line with these standards and to replace authorisation procedures with prior or subsequent communications. It also reinforces, in various areas, the aspect of ex post or subsequent supervision, seeking a more balanced solution that minimizes both the costs for the supervisor and the supervisors. This initiative also fulfils one of the milestones set out in the Recovery and Resilence Plan ( PRR ), in the framework of the reform with the aim of dynamising the capital market and promoting the capitalisation of companies, thanking Parliament in advance for the understanding and collaboration of the fulfilment of this milestone. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The collective management of assets, as well as the financial system in general, faces new challenges. Sustainable financing is probably one of the most obvious. The dynamisation of capital gains or financing from the capital market promotes competitiveness between financing markets and, ultimately, access to more appropriate financing conditions by companies. Collective asset management is undoubtedly a part of the solution. To this end, it should contribute to a more modern, simple, uniform and harmonious regulatory framework, which, being more in line with European standards, always ensures the necessary protection of participants and the effectiveness of supervision, appropriately sanctioning any inconsistent practices. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u58	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Castro of the Liberal Initiative has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The legislative authorization that this Government brings and that we are discussing today is again an obstacle to the legislative functioning of the Assembly of the Republic. With this authorisation, the Government plans to revoke the General Scheme of Collective Investment Agencies and the Risk Capital Legal Regime, Social Entrepreneurship and Specialized Investment and implement an asset management regime, without passing this legislative piece by Parliament. In other words, the Government plans to make a very important reform, one of the main investment tools, which is as important for the economy as the Government itself describes in the very short explanation of reasons for the bill. The Government can say that the bill already has an example of the law decree and the regime to be applied, but what confidence can we have when there are contradictions between ministers and state secretaries? How much confidence can we have, even when we are talking about investment, in a government that, since 2015 has brought us even more into Europe's line on these issues? What confidence can we have in the government that it says to stimulate investment and savings, but that it has not even been able to vote in favour of a proposal from the Liberal Initiative on the increase of stimulus to RPPs (saving-reform plans), within the State budget? Can the Government still try to counter that this proposal follows a preliminary draft developed by the CMVM, a public consultation target between December 2021 and February 2022, but how many regulatory entities have consulted the Government to draw up this proposal, considering its impact, for example, on other industries and on the financial market? What other entities have been heard? If we check the report of the public consultation, it is seen that not one regulatory entity has pronounced itself beyond the MVC. More: this specialty process, regardless of how we vote today, will be done so urgently, on behalf of the implementation of the PRR, which will prevent such hearings. I would like to conclude by saying that this is another blank letter to the Government to legislate on collective investment mechanisms. We can say that this is about the PRR, or that an urgent review is needed — we also agree that an urgent review is needed — but on a subject, either in another, or the urgency, or the subject is not a surprise. So it is, once again, in our view, a lack of planning and a lack of vision how this process has been implemented, and that is what we regret. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u60	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Alexandre Simões has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let my first words be to lend solidarity, as a Member elected by the Lisbon circle, to all those who have been struck by the storm of the last days and have suffered serious damage and damage,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u62	... in particular in the Council of Lisbon, and to welcome the commitment of the agents and authorities, for their strong efforts in civil protection, in defence of life and belonging to the citizens. Everyone, thank you very much! [[PSD applause.]] As regards the proposed legislative authorisation under consideration, the PSD naturally associates itself with those who consider it essential a policy that promotes savings and strengthens the mechanisms and bodies that operate in the sector, in particular the General Scheme of Collective Investment Agencies and, from the outset, all measures aimed at ensuring consumer protection. What the Government is proposing to us is a legislative authorization, which is intended to be approved in record time. Three votes were also scheduled for today: in general, in speciality and in total final vote. The first aspect to point out is therefore formal. This method of urgent approval, in time recalls, without Parliament being able to vote on the Government's initiatives, is already out of line with that which is admissible. We saw ourselves at the beginning of the legislative session with the amendment to the Fuel Taxation Scheme. We then came up with the proposal for a law on access to banking and prudential supervision and, more recently, with the proposal for a law regulating contributions on the energy and food distribution sectors. This technique does not seem acceptable to us. Why this emergency? Perhaps, because, once again, there will be un transposed Community rules. Today it is even expected that the amendment to the Code of Special Consumption Taxes will be approved because it is the transposition of directives, with a year's delay, I repeat, a year's delay! But the justification, which I cannot but share in this plenary, is the following: it is a 'legislative and administrative simplification initiative which also corresponds to one of the reforms contained in the RPP'. Now, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members, the PRR is late due to the government's chronic inability to execute it. It won't be — before it is! — this amendment which will be able to link its weak implementation. But when we get into the substance of the proposal, what does it stand out? Since then, as Mr Secretary of State pointed out, the intention is to merge two schemes into one: on the one hand, the General Scheme of Collective Investment Agencies, approved by Law No 16 / 2015, and on the other hand the Legal Regime of the Capital of Risk, Social Entrepreneurship and Specialized Investment, approved by Law No 18 / 2015, two vetoes of the long term of 2015. Is this the change that demands? Well, it will not be the PSD to obstruct it, but reality is the following: for those who really want to stimulate long-term savings in Portugal, the central theme is taxation. Taxation, yes, is the central point in encouraging long-term savings. Those who say this are, in fact, the CMVM, which, on the subject, points out several measures, stressing the importance of encouraging the savings of Portuguese families, which has gradually been decreasing. That is why the State should encourage and support the formation of these savings, in particular through tax benefits. in this sense, I recall the PSD proposal, for the 2023 Budget, which provided a rate of IRS ( income tax for natural persons) reduced by 10 % for long-term deposits, similar financial instruments. What did the PS do? Oh, my God! You voted against, of course. Instead, he preferred to approve proposals from his new fellow roadworkers, PAN and Free, however absurd they were. But other measures can and should be discussed, in line with the European Union and the CMVM itself, as they are from the outset : the favourable taxation for the new European RPP ; the application to the European investment funds of the tax system of the collective investment agencies; savings accounts to the genre of the RPP ; the reformulation of the collection of the RSI by increasing the deduction to the collection of the IRS of amounts applied in long-term savings products for the reform; and, inter alia, the deferral of the recovery tax or reimbursement of investment funds in case of reinvestment. That is why, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in addition to the legislative authorization that is now required, what is really important is to discuss proposals that can encourage long-term savings and that will ultimately ensure the financial security of families and businesses. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u63	For an intervention on behalf of the NAP, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u64	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: I would also like to note that this is one of the evidences of extreme climate events and that we must be alert and act in the fight against climate change. With regard to this proposal for a law brought by the Government, we cannot fail to say that we are very surprised that in such a sensitive matter as this the Government has not allowed greater participation, in a plural manner, in an instrument which may call into question matters relating to corruption and transparency. This is because we cannot forget that we are talking about activities at risk of corruption, money laundering, conflicts of interest, the concealment of effective heritage and even the use of iron heads at local level. in this sense, it seems to us, from our reading of the document, that all these risks have a very tenuous approach on the part of the government, especially in some dimensions of this proposal, with points that can even aggravate the risk of these same phenomena. One such case is the Simple, which is proposed for low-value collective investment agencies. In essence, it is a matter of giving free rein, in legislative terms, for example, to the real estate area. This option, in addition to bringing the risks we have already pointed out, does not bring credibility to the national market, since it becomes more volatile and less liquid. For this reason, we will not be following the Government's proposal favourably and we hope that for the next time we will not be afraid of a more involved and plural process, which, of course, was not possible, taking into account the format in which it was brought to the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u65	Mr Rui Afonso has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: By this proposal for a law, the Government intends legislative authorization to define the requirements for access and exercise of activities related to the management of collective investment bodies, including collective investment bodies in securities, as well as alternative investment bodies provided for by the General Scheme of Collective Investment Agencies, approved in Annex to Law No 16/2015 of 24 February; to define and regulate related professional activities, which may be exercised, on a professional basis, either by the managers of the collective investment agencies, or by depositaries and other entities and persons providing related services; to establish the system of cessation of the activity of the collective investment agencies and management companies; to establish the supervision regime of the Securities Market Commission; and, lastly, to establish the applicable counter-ordering system. Collective investment is one of the most important financial activities, constituting a relevant element of the Portuguese capital market, meeting a clear and revealing trend of growth today. This investment modality is based on the collection of capital with investors and their application in accordance with an investment policy established for this purpose and implemented by a specialized and professional management. This activity plays a very important role in the allocation of investment and financing to companies, as recognised in several international reports. As an example, the value under management of collective investment agencies in securities totaled more than EUR 17 billion in August 2022. Noting that the legal regime of collective investment management activity is currently covered by the General Plan of Collective Investment Agencies and the Legal Regime of Risk Capital, Social Entrepreneurship and Specialized Investment, it is important to always adopt improvements and solutions in line with best international practices, especially those issued by the European Union. As has often been mentioned by some officials working in this sector, as demonstrated by some media cases, there are also international practices and rules in this area, mainly of European origin and applicable to collective investment bodies, which would be important to introduce into the Portuguese legal framework, thereby avoiding excessive legislative dispersion, at the same time increasing simplification and speed of proceedings. It is therefore important to adopt a more harmonised, coherent and uniform approach to regulatory policy that promotes the effectiveness of supervision and the competitiveness of the sector. For us, it will be essential to carry out consultations that will enable the legislation to be consolidated there, especially in the context of conflicts of interest in the management societies of these collective investment agencies. The lack of clear and uniform conditions creates economic and legal uncertainty for both managers and investors. Therefore, the establishment of the applicable supervisory regime, as well as the sanctioning system, should also, in our view, incorporate a wide range of consultations that would enable the new regulatory framework for errors and omissions of the past to be cleared. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u67	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Duarte Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This proposal for legislative authorisation seeks to condensate in a single degree legislation relating to collective investment bodies. But it does more than that: it extends the simplified scheme of venture capital funds to other forms of alternative investment, and the explanatory statement of the bill and the intervention of the Secretary of State makes it clear that this enlargement is directed particularly at managing real estate investments. We're talking about funds that use non-traditional forms of investment, where you include famous open-ended sales, i.e. the bet on the fall of an asset, financial leverage and financial vehicles on real estate assets. This is therefore a law that goes entirely contrary to what the country needs. The country needs, and much, to increase investment in the economy, both public investment, always sacrificed in the name of the deficit, and private investment. The country needs an investment oriented towards productive sectors, for technological incorporation, for the growing and sustained creation of value. The country needs investment in the real economy, it needs a real industrial policy that puts the country producing for greater sovereignty and prosperity and greater and fairer distribution of wealth. This is not the law of the type of investment that the country needs. This is the law of investment funds which do not invest anything, which only buy shares in companies that already exist, without adding value, and which live on account of oligopolist and rentist sectors, often as a result of the privatization of public enterprises.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u69	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u70	It is funds that, by their nature, increase the instability of institutional investor centres and subject business strategies to the immediate interests of dividend distribution rather than medium- and long-term logics. This law will further boost traditional or alternative real estate funds and will deepen their speculative action with dramatic consequences in the right to housing for the generality of the population, exacerbating the profound distortions of the country's economic profile. This is the law that will continue to facilitate the anonymity of the capital, making its holders disappear, facilitating its circulation and concentration and, consequently, tax evasion and offshore use. This is the law that will serve fund managers such as Vanguard, or BlackRock, who in 2019 had already participated in 14 companies listed in the PSI-20 ( Portuguese Stock Index ), these funds that, instead of creating wealth, divert to dividends what is missing in wages and in productive investment. Finally, it is the law that the Government is asking the Assembly of the Republic to resolve in a hurry, despite its size, because it tells us that without it the funds of the PRR are compromised. Once again, it is demonstrated that the European Union does not give a nude in the imposition of neoliberal policies. The so-called European solidarity, the millions of bazaars are once again linked to new taxation and to new mechanisms for financing the economy, which will strengthen the power of transnational capital of the major European and American financial markets. The CFP will vote against, because the country does not need more real estate funds, more finance, but rather a real productive investment that reflects on growth, real value creation and in better wages and living conditions for those who work in our country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u71	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for a speech on behalf of the Free Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary of State and Minister of State, good morning to all. When we discuss a legislative authorization, we discuss the matter of substance and also the question of whether the Government reaches the necessary set of arguments so that it can legislate without the involvement of the Assembly of the Republic, as in general would be desirable. So it is on this two point that I would like to try to clarify the position of the Freeman. We believe that this is not achieved and therefore we will not vote in favour of the request for legislative authorisation. We believe that, in this important area, there are political and technical issues that this House is up to and has the responsibility to assess. As a part of it is appropriate for European law and as this European law has been discussed in the European Parliament and in the Council of the European Union, we believe that at national level its adaptation must have the same procedural dignity, i.e. it should be discussed in the Assembly of the Republic. We understand that this process must be dispatched, because it is important from the point of view of the RPP funds that Portugal needs to receive, but I believe so, calls on us to be more time-bound in the submission of proposals and to do so with Parliament's involvement which, in the end, also protects the government. In matters of this relevance and the importance they have, it is important that public and parliamentary debate be held so that responsibility can then be scrutinized.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u73	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Simplification and legislative harmonisation, promotion of the most favourable business environment and investment incentive — these are the arguments of all the reforms that have liberalized the financial sector in Portugal. In all of them, the arguments stand out from all the reforms that have liberalized the financial sector. Nothing has been learned from the past! Nothing! The State has no investment capacity, has no intervention instruments in the economy, has lost the planning capacity of its intervention in the economy and makes a permanent outsourcing of these functions to the financial sector. Yesterday, it was the bank, but now you don't like the bank, you see the bank wrong, the bank made a lot of mistakes, and so now it's the capital markets. They say, then, «We will liberalise capital markets, in particular investment funds, in particular real estate investment funds », even knowing that they are an aid to speculation, even knowing that they are intransparent instruments, even knowing that they are instruments of financial instability and that they already benefit from a system of tax privilege in Portugal. Finally, every time has its fashion, every season has its propaganda, every season has its connoisseurs, but it almost always ends in the same way: with speculation, with crisis, with fraud. And this is the substance of this law and that is why we would not follow this proposal in any way. But there is still another reason why we cannot and will not follow this proposal. The Secretary of State should give us a good reason for the Assembly of the Republic's authorization to legislate when he sends us a proposal which is generally discussed on 9, which has a deadline for tabling amendments which is on 12, which is voted on in the specialty on 14, to be defined by global final vote until 22. The Assembly of the Republic is not the official stamp of government proposals. The Government may know that it has an absolute majority here because of the Socialist Party and it is by the Socialist Party that this proposal will pass, but the Members of this House are not official carimbators of government initiatives. Therefore, from the Left Block, you are not authorized to legislate on this matter. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u75	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u76	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs. Members: Since the diploma has already been presented by Mr Secretary of State, I do not want to repeat all the objectives of this diploma and what I intend to achieve, I will somehow be able to specify a little more during the intervention. I would therefore just like to make a few comments and focus on some interventions that seem relevant to me, because from a political point of view and in a debate in the Assembly of the Republic, it makes sense to amplify certain issues which have been mentioned and to position the opinion of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. I begin precisely by the right and by Mrs Carla Castro of the Liberal Initiative, who said something that seems relevant to us in her speech. This is indeed a reform, it is an important reform, but — and I am am amplifying what I think is relevant — what I hear from your bench, systematically and permanently, is the idea that reform is necessary and, when they exist,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u77	Which ones?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u78	... they say « ai, ai, ai, we make reforms, but not so fast, we will slow down, because we cannot follow this pace». [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Members of the Liberal Initiative, this reform, which joins many others that the Socialist Party and this Government have done, and which will join many who still have to emerge, demands opposition, responsible opposition and the Liberal Initiative, more time to follow these answers, more ideas, more suggestions. I noticed, Mrs Carla Castro, that there was no single suggestion about the diploma, about what you want to change, about what you're not okay. The honourable Member said: "Well, you didn't hear anyone. Do not keep on seeking. ” We heard, Mrs. Member. She's wrong. We heard! We heard all the actors in the sector who talked about this matter. There is, moreover, a broad consensus on the amendments that are on the table. Therefore, what really matters is to know what the Liberal Initiative wants to do and unfortunately the Portuguese do not know, because no solution has been given on their part. As for the PSD, I wanted to say something that also seems relevant to me. Mr Alexandre Simões has risen and done what most PSD Members have done recently. When we are discussing this diploma, an important diploma for investment, to reduce procedures, to reduce deadlines, to improve, from an administrative point of view, the way in which these matters are running, he says: "Yes, yes, that is important, but we want to discuss fiscal policy". Mr President, today we are discussing this, we are not discussing fiscal policy; when we discuss fiscal policy, we discuss it. This is your strategy: whenever something comes, the debate says, "yes, yes, we do not agree, let's discuss it." That's what's going on with the airport. We asked: What is the airport? They say: "We don't know, let's discuss anything else. » That is your practice! That is how you act and this does not actually bring any added value. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member had the opportunity to say in this debate, that it is an important debate, whether or not it was different, if it did not differ from what this diploma provides and that it is very important that the industry stakeholders today attach great importance to it. I'm going to give an example: the authorization to start the business of the management company was in six months and goes on to three months. Do you agree? You want two months, you want one month, you want 15 days, you want right away? What do you think about this? Another example is the authorisation for the start-up of small-scale management companies for 30 days, when the general scheme was previously applied. Do you agree or do you not agree? I didn't say anything about that. But there is more: on issues related to procedural changes, rather than being an authorization from the Securities Market Committee, it is only a communication. This is very important. It's just that I hear the gentlemen. Members have repeatedly spoken about the importance of reducing bureaucracy. Mr President, it was important for you to say what you think about it or to introduce other suggestions on this matter. So what I have to say to Mr Alexandre Simões and the PSD is that they focus on what we are discussing. We do not have much time, the country really needs to accelerate and these matters are very relevant. Unfortunately, you say that, but you do not behave as you should, from the point of view of responsibility, to address an issue that is truly important. I am very sorry that you are not even an alternative to this kind of behavior. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u79	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u80	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, just to say that Mr Carlos Pereira, without wishing, now, has ended up telling the truth: that this bill fits not a glove in the ideas of the Liberal Initiative. Not a glove! That is why the Liberal Initiative does not criticize the proposal, it does not present alternatives and it is only worthwhile not having been consulted in its preparation. But I risk saying that I think the Liberal Initiative has no cause for concern, because it has a good representative of its ideas in the government and will try to make this proposal with the consent of the Assembly of the Republic. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u81	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD, Mr Alexandre Simões has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Carlos Pereira, very quickly, just to remember that who is in fact in a hurry and who is unable to present the issues in good time, in order to allow Parliament to debate with exhaustion, seriously and with the importance that these matters defend, is the PS and the Government, through the methodology and how it has worked to overcome the sovereignty and the need of Parliament to assess the proposals put forward. As for the commitment to the PRR, I would like to recall the following: it is already two years old. We are required to submit amendments until 12 days, but the fact is that this commitment on the part of the Government is already two years old. Therefore, who is missing, once again, is the PS and is the government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u83	Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u84	Mr President: Mr President, I sincerely realized that when I realized that I had signed up for a new intervention, I was convinced that I would accept my challenge, i.e. to look at the diploma, to add value to the diploma, to add the PSD's opinion to the diploma,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u85	Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u86	... but the honourable Member went back to the same, not saying anything at all and turning again to the method, to the way all this is being done. It is regrettable that this is the case! We are aware of something that is very relevant. What is under way in Portugal, with regard to the PRR, is very demanding, Mr. We have no doubt about that. It's very demanding! We are all committed to this: there are companies, there are families, there is government and there is the Socialist Party. We are all very committed to ensuring that the PRR is a success, not only in the ability to execute, but also in the results of this PRR. So what we expected was that the Democratic Social Party, the PPD / PSD, which wants to be an alternative, if they were trying, if they were committed, because this should not be a party, should be something in favour of the country, and you are not able to give a single opinion on the matter that is truly relevant, that is responsible and that adds value. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u87	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Castro of the Liberal Initiative has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members : I would like to address, in particular, Mr Carlos Pereira to point out that the Liberal Initiative obviously has a pace and has support in its policies. By the way, I would like to clarify the following: whoever asked to speed up the process was the government. So, if there's any time problem here, it's from the government. I would also like to say that not only are markets important, as the PRR is important, which is not surprising; the only surprise there could be in this House was the government and the PS, this time, being prepared, which obviously are not. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u89	To close the debate, Mr. Secretary of State for Finance, João Nuno Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to thank the contribution of the different parliamentary groups. I would like to stress the reason why this matter is an urgent milestone of the PRR and why in negotiations with the European Commission it has taken so much importance. If we look at the debate on the competitiveness of the European Union as a whole, we see that there is a great deal of attention to the development of the capital market throughout the European Union, compared with what is done in other regional economic blocs, and this is presented as one of the areas of competitiveness deficit in the European economy. In Portugal we have an asset management sector that has grown but has potential to grow more. We are, in some ways, in a state of under-utilization of the capacities we have in this area, taking into account the set of highly qualified professionals who already operate in this sector of activity. For us, it is very important that these processes be made fully transparent and I should stress that the CMVM — which submitted the proposal to the Government in May this year — has made a broad public consultation, having published all the contributions received, not only those which have received, but also those who have not received. I have to say that we respect, to a large extent, but not entirely, the set of proposals coming from the CMVM and, in the course of the legislative process itself, we will consult stakeholders. In fact, we want this diploma to be as consensual as possible. I should also like to point out — in meeting Mr Pereira’s words — that it is important to underline the reformist sense of the government, that I am going to give some examples here. In 2021, there was approval of the revision of the Securities Code ; in the same year, the Investment Company Scheme was approved ; in 2022, approval was made of the Legal Regime of Covered Obligations as well as the approval of the Banking Package, with a set of options taken here in the Chamber of Great Modernity ; and now approval of the Asset Management Scheme. It is called this « reformist momentum»,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... ability to implement, capacity to give companies conditions to obtain alternative forms of financing,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u91	What about the investment? Where's the investment going?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u92	...and we are very proud of this reformist impulse. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u93	So we finish the first item on the agenda. We now move on to the next point with the assessment of Decree-Law No 50 -A / 2022 of 25 July, which establishes the remuneration regime for the additional work done by doctors in emergency services[ Parliamentary assessment No 2 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ). In the meantime, some proposals for amendments to the Decree-Law, tabled by the Left Block, have been put into the Bureau, which will be reduced to 5. the Commission. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Pedro Melo Lopes has the floor by the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State for Health : On Decree-Law No 50 -A / 2022, the first word we can say is "inapplicable", for the simple reason that on the one hand this diploma duplicates the costs with the additional work and the acquisition of medical services in the SNS (National Health Service ), but on the other hand requires that these costs cannot exceed the amounts paid in the last half of 2019 in each service or health establishment of the SNS, corrected by the charges arising from annual wage updates. And it is true that, keeping the total expenditure with the ceiling of three years ago, if the number of hours provided in the second half of 2022 is, at least, similar to 2019, it is easily perceived that it will not be possible to increase the value/hour. It should be noted that the amounts paid to doctors in service are aligned, in many institutions, with the value of the overtime paid to specialists, which corresponds to about half of the value that this diploma defines. in this sense, for most institutions, this decree-law, if applied, would increase, in a fair but significant way, the costs of this dimension, which the diploma itself prohibits. In short, the expectation that this diploma has generated in doctors, such as the great tool to prevent problems in the emergency service, will generally be impossible to implement. It is not understood and is not thus that the autonomy of hospitals is increased nor is it given to the management bodies appropriate instruments to value medical work. Therefore, the diploma to value overtime is « inapplicable ». [[PSD applause.]] Who wrote what I just quoted was neither I nor was any sectarian oppositionist or antipatriot of the Socialist Party ; who wrote it was Professor Fernando Araújo, the present and so much-wanted executive director of the National Health Service, on July 27, 2022.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u95	It is now that you will praise the good choice of the Socialist Party Government!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u96	Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The diploma in appreciation doubled the remuneration of the additional work in the SNS, which the State Budget of the Socialist Party had approved just a month earlier, which says well of the incompetence, despair and lack of sense of responsibility of the Socialist Party in government activity. This is a government that has passed a decree to radically change the value/time of supplementary medical work only as an oxygen balloon to try, in vain hope, to save a Minister of Health who was already in political lethargy and who abandoned the government a month later. This is a government that has, to vary, given a false solution to a serious and serious problem, which is the lack of attractiveness that SNS has for doctors, further discrediting the current health policy. This is a government which does not have the capacity to make structural reforms or changes and which, in the face of the problems, insists on bringing money to ruin these same problems, knowing that it will perpetuate them. Irresponsibility is such that, after more than 4 months of the entry into force of the said diploma—that in the light of the new CEO (executive chief officer) is inapplicable—and less than two months after the end of his term of office, the country does not know or know what consequences the application of this decree has had. The Portuguese do not know which health gains and actual increases in the activity of the National Health Service that the same diploma may have brought, as well as their hypothetical burdens on the public record. This is information that not only Portuguese people have the right to know, as a government that claims certain accounts has an obligation to provide. For this reason, the PSD, which has a different view of wage valuation of health professionals, proposes that at least the Portuguese know the results achieved with the implementation of the decree-law in appreciation and that the results and health gains of their implementation are measured. If the Socialist Party denies the right of access to this information, it shows not only that it is not, contrary to what the Prime Minister boasts, a party of certain accounts, as well as shows and reveals a total disregard by users, the National Health Service and an arrogant disregard by taxpayers. The PSD therefore proposes that by the end of the first half of 2023, the Government should promote a report assessing in fact the implementation of Decree-Law No 50 -A / 2022, which would clarify its impact on production and on assistance activity and its financial effects, in particular on the costs associated with additional work in the acquisition of medical services. Having made the report, the same must then be submitted for public disclosure, for the sake of transparency of the State accounts and respect for the public record and, above all, for respect for the Portuguese citizens. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u97	For an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State of Health, Ricardo Mestre now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let me begin by complementing this PSD intervention with some numbers that help to better contextualize the reality of the National Health Service in terms of professionals. Certainly due to omission or forgetting, it has not been reported that today we have more than 150 000 professionals in the SNS, which corresponds to a growth of 15 000 professionals in relation to the pre-pandamy period and also a growth of 30 000 professionals in comparison to 2015,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u99	This comes from PPPs (public-private partnerships)!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u100	...which was when this government cycle began. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u101	This comes from the PPP!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u102	Also by forgetting, it has certainly not been reported that today we have more than 31 000 medical professionals in the National Health Service, compared to 2015, and therefore I consider it important to refer to this context. I would also like to give a second note on the diploma here. Once again, certainly by forgetting, it has not been mentioned the scope of the diploma, which has two very concrete objectives: it is a transitional diploma which, on the one hand, allows SNS hospitals to hire professionals directly for their frameworks in the context of strengthening their autonomy—in the context of the initial intervention which was made, I did not feel that this was much referred to—and allows, moreover, a second thing, which is to pay in addition to the professionals of the hospital frames, when they perform additional work in the emergency services. The diploma has four months in force and is fully implemented, ending in accordance with what is stipulated on 31 January. We are currently following the diploma and there is some information I can give you, Mr. First of all, I can point out that this diploma allowed 274 doctors to be hired for the SNS, directly and autonomously by the hospitals, going to meet the strengthening of autonomy that he intended to achieve. Secondly, I would also like to say that the increase in payment to professionals is being made, allowing the work of the professionals in the hospital framework to be valued and also allowing this activity to be effectively carried out. The honourable Member also referred to the issue of costs. As I have already said, the diploma is four months old, we are accompanying it and evaluating it and, at the very moment, we will take decisions on its continuity or not, and in what terms. There is, however, a fact that we know and have at present: we are following hospitals, which are doing very careful management of the effects of this diploma and which is being properly monitored and monitored. I did not want to end without leaving a final note, which I do not think has been mentioned: this diploma actually corresponds to a transitional regime, a regime which aims to tackle a very concrete issue and which will have to have structural solutions, solutions, which are already in progress and which are being negotiated with medical unions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is with medical unions that we are trying to find solutions for the organization of work in emergency services and for the organization of medical work in the National Health Service. Therefore, this diploma, being transitional and having a defined and previously established duration, is something that will be in force until we have a structural response, which is being constructed and negotiated and that will be the result of what we can achieve within the framework of the organization of medical work in the National Health Service, regulating such matters as the specific organization of hours and working times, full dedication and other matters that, structurally, will allow us to have an increasing improvement in the functioning of the National Health Service. That is what we have in the Government Programme and that is what we are going to continue to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u103	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mrs Joana Cordeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u104	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State for Health, Mr. and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, this decree reads that the PSD is bringing us today to appreciate it is more a demonstration of what the government has already used to us: it gives us one hand, but it withdraws with both of us. It is a fact that additional work has to be properly paid and that is the objective of this diploma. However, there are several questions that need to be answered. Is this scheme only for doctors who do additional work in emergency services? And other health professionals who are also essential to ensure scales? Were they forgotten? In Article 2. the, autonomy is given to the boards of administration for the unterminated hiring of specialists. How many were hired? In Article 3. the, it is important to know what the cost, so far, of this increase in the values paid to doctors and if there were more hours of work done in the emergencies or if we are only paying more for the same number of hours. And that's because it's important to know how many emergency services have stopped stopping because they've got more doctors to secure the scales under this decree. It is because, as we have seen, the problems in emergencies remain and we continue to have closed emergencies, as we have also witnessed successive resignations. On Article 5. the, the government has to answer what the effective decrease that occurred in the acquisition of medical services, i.e. with service providers, and what the savings generated with this decrease. ACSS ( Central Health System Administration, IP ) has these data, so the Government has to have the answer. Then Article 6. the condition the costs with this additional work to 2019 values and does not even take into account the current inflation context. Now, it is here, and in Article 7. that the Government would withdraw with both hands what it had given with one. Yes, because the period of validity of this decree is until 31 January 2023 and therefore we need to know whether the government will even end this regime on this date and how hospital emergencies will remain from 1 February. Are the doctors going to get less for the work they do? For the Liberal Initiative, this diploma shows that the Government does not intend to solve the problems we have all witnessed in the emergencies, from north to south of the country, due to the lack of professionals to fill the service scales. This modus operandi of the Socialist Party, to pretend that it solves problems, "throwing sand for people's eyes", has to be unmasked. And it's not just the Liberal Initiative that says so. It is worth recalling the words, which have already been mentioned here, of the current Executive Director of the SNS, Dr. Fernando Araújo, at the time of the publication of this decree-law, which I will quote to be clear: "Unfortunately, the diploma of the valorization of the extra hours of doctors in emergency service, I will say - slowly to understand, is i-na-pl-ca-vel. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: This decree has indeed been inapplicable to solve the very serious problems that SNS emergencies continue to face. For the submission of responsible amendments, the Liberal Initiative would need answers to these questions. Mr. Secretary of State, in the light of the words of the current Executive Director of the SNS, as he comments on the fact that he does not agree with the diplomas that the Government has been regulating. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u105	To speak on behalf of the NAP, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u106	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State : In less than two years, more than 800 doctors have already resigned from the SNS. This is symptomatic of the problems that continue to be solved and to which this diploma does not provide a solution. The system of remuneration for additional work carried out by doctors in emergency services has several problems. Of course, it is important to point out that this scheme aims to stabilize the emergency teams of public health services and establishments, but it was promulgated in July this year and ends in next month. It also wants this diploma to gradually increase the payment of overtime from 51 additional hours and even if the costs associated with the additional work and the acquisition of medical services do not exceed the amounts paid in the last half of 2019. As we have already heard, this diploma is ineffective and inapplicable. In fact, it has limitations that empty it in itself, which demonstrates the little will that there is to recover the one who has to be the investment in the SNS to make it more attractive and more capable of keeping its professionals. The ministry has not yet presented concrete proposals that are worthy of the medical career, but I can only point out that we do not have enough to look at the medical career. There are many other professionals who need to be valued—for example, the recognition of the career of health assistant technicians continues in the drawer—because we cannot continue to have doctors, nurses and other operatives, including diagnosis, completely impoverished and exhausted and no solutions, Mr. Secretary of State. So what is the question is: if this diploma will end, what vision, what project and what solution does the government have to solve the serious problem of SNS in our country?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u107	Mr João Dias, from the CFP, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Minister, Mr Secretary of State : The true nature of the concern that led the PSD to present this parliamentary assessment, in fact also present in what was the intervention of the Liberal Initiative, is the fact that this decree-law can prevent—and this is based on its concern—that the service providers will gain more from what they already provided in the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u109	Oh, yes! [[Protests by PSD Member Pedro Melo Lopes and IL Member Joana Cordeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u110	This is the strategy, this is the concern, which is at the foundation and the essence of your parliamentary appreciation. But, Mr Secretary of State, allow me also to tell you that the truth is in reality and in what we are going through today. We are almost at the winter station and emergency services are in fact very difficult to respond, due to the absolute shortage of health professionals, especially doctors. The question that we put is to know whether to fix and attract more doctors to the National Health Service, and specifically to emergency services, it is achieved with solutions such as by further overloading health professionals—in this case, doctors—or with measures to value careers, of wage valuation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u111	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u112	...which is what allows them, in fact, to view the SNS shirt. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u113	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block, Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u114	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Ladies and gentlemen: Whoever goes to the emergency, do it because he needs to go to the emergency, or he won't. Well, I know that later on in the screening, a health team might say that this case was not so urgent, but in other cases it will even say: "I should have come sooner. Do not keep on seeking. ” The truth is, whoever goes to the emergency does it because he needs and needs to be taken care of. But that is not happening right now. at this moment, there are dozens of hours waiting, sometimes for an emergency,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u115	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u116	...and that problem has to be solved. We already knew that we were going to have a moment of urgency, because it is always like this in the autumn and in the winter and because, above all, we are joining the normal respiratory diseases, aggravated even by the use of the mask, as is already proven, because we have less defenses. That's right! We all knew it was gonna be like this. Now, in July, the Government makes a decree, which is only valid until January—not even valid throughout the whole winter— to say that it makes an increase in the payment of extraordinary hours of doctors in urgency, but which, in fact, is only significant if doctors have already done more extraordinary hours than the law permits. In other words, when you get to burnout, a doctor may have an increase in your overtime payment — only the doctors and only until January. And, moreover, hospitals can not spend more than they spent on 2019 when there was not yet a covid. It's absurd! It's a decree-law to make sure it's done without doing anything at all.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u117	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u118	Not by chance, the current SNS Executive Director had already said that this regime, which limits the remuneration of the SNS workers, but not of the employers, is sending doctors out of the SNS, because they gain more if they are simple tasks, and is destroying the organization of the National Health Service. That is why the Left Block comes to this parliamentary assessment with proposals for this peak of urgency. I heard the debate and the PSD presented the parliamentary opinion to request a report... I understand the problem on the right, because PS's health policy is the same as what right would do,... [[Protests by IL MP Joana Lambero.]] ... but it is extraordinary that there are people who wait tens of hours in the emergency and that the PSD will present a parliamentary assessment to request a report! Now, we in the Left Block have the idea that Parliament serves to solve problems and, therefore, we put forward proposals to increase the payment of hours of all emergency workers, and not only doctors, and since the first hour, and not only after they have been doing hours that are illegal, in burnout. In addition, we propose to change the organization and have basic emergencies next to the most specialized, medical-surgical emergencies, so that screening allows the separation of cases of urgency and response to everyone, instead of saying that they go and go to the health center, because this is not working and who goes to the urgent need for response.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u119	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u120	On the other hand, we also propose to articulate valences that already exist to allow in places where there are no medical-surgical emergencies, there are basic units of urgency that have the permanent care that health centres do, but together with complementary means of diagnosis, to give the population the confidence that they will have the answer they need. This allows better remuneration for those who surrender to the SNS and better organize the emergencies to serve the users better. It is not a structural response, but it is a decent response to a peak, rather than to realize what is done, as I see the other parties doing here today. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u121	Mr Pedro Frazão has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: We are here today to discuss the health and health safety of the Portuguese, and therefore I cannot help but address a word of solidarity with the victims of the floods that have been felt in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, particularly in Lisbon, Oeiras and Loures, but also a word of thanks and appreciation to the security forces. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Yes, the security forces are the heroes of what happened in Portugal. I would even say that heroes wear heavy clothes and therefore this thanks is absolutely important, because they have not stopped working.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u123	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u124	Look at this, ladies. Members: police working in an Oeiras team with water on their knees. The speaker displayed a copy of a picture of the situation he described. They never saw their backs on duty and continue to save populations. I'd like to ask the Left Block where was his consortium of journalists, who come to deny security forces every day. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Where were they on full day? What were they doing? They were at home very well, waiting for the cops to protect them.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u125	About health, zero! It's getting water!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u126	Get more water!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u127	It's true, it's true! You have to listen, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! If, one day, a serious cataclysm hit Portugal, it will be the salvation of whoever can,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u128	It's getting water!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u129	... because the hospital centers of the SNS, the structures that should endure more and be resilient in these disasters, after all, are the most vulnerable. We saw the Hospital of San Francisco Xavier, in Lisbon, having to divert urgent patients when it was most necessary to receive them because it rained in there. The speaker displayed a copy of the news from RTP News with the title « Rain has ruined part of the ceiling of the hospital São Francisco Xavier, in Lisbon ». What is this fruit? It is the result of poor construction, poor management and poor guidance and maintenance of government hospitals. So what happens in Portugal — going to the meeting of this parliamentary assessment of a decree-law that was inherited from a minister who was already resigning, only she herself did not know, or was then the Prime Minister who did not let her leave — and what stems from the action of the previous Minister and the current Minister of Health is that doctors are being fled by the SNS. And it is not necessary to come up with propaganda, such as this decree-law, which has already been said to be inapplicable. Moreover, several political forces, almost unanimously, with the exception of the PS, say that this decree-law is inapplicable and, in fact, it is, in addition to being inapplicable, even more fleeing the doctors of the SNS. Note that whatever further propaganda you make, Mr. Members, the SNS in Portugal and the country themselves are losing doctors. The speaker displayed a copy of a chart of the Express on « The numbers of medical emigration since 2014 ». Since 2017 there has been not so much medical escape, not only from the SNS but also from the country itself. In fact, according to data from the Medical Order itself, the immigration of doctors fired in 2021, this being the highest value of the last five years, which has not happened since 2016. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this Parliamentary assessment will be accompanied by the Arrival, because if, on the one hand, it tries to move in the values of time and in the hiring of doctors, on the other hand, it sets a standard buffer,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u130	Norma-brain!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u131	... that the costs of additional work and the acquisition of medical services cannot exceed the amounts paid in the last half of 2019 in each service or health establishment. That is, it is a decree-law that has no applicability and that what you end up doing is a backwardness in the SNS. It is not worth saying in the State budget that they will give the SNS EUR 14 billion when they then apply laws that put a budget buffer in the 2019 figures. Mr Secretary of State, I would also like to give you a word on what you have said. You continue to propagate the propaganda that thousands of health professionals have entered the SNS. Mr Secretary of State, once and for all, I understand — I know you understand — and stop lying to Portuguese people, because these thousands of health professionals who entered the SNS had only and exclusively to do with the passage of PPPs to EPEs (business public entities).
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u132	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u133	The professionals were already there! [[Congrats from the CH.]] They were health professionals who were in the PPPs and they automatically passed to the SNS. So what happens and what the Portuguese feel at home is that the SNS is a chaos, it's getting worse, with tens of hours waiting in central hospitals in Portugal, and that has to end. at this moment, we have to save the SNS. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u134	To speak on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulo Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u135	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Before starting this intervention, I wanted to join all the votes of solidarity with the victims of the full and, not wanting to be blind to just making a compliment on the work done by the security forces, to join them also by firefighters and civil protection forces, both local and national. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are here today, at the request of the PSD, to carry out this parliamentary assessment of Decree-Law No 50 -A / 2022, which establishes the remuneration regime for the additional work done by doctors in emergency services. The measures advocated in this diploma aim at paying for the additional effort of doctors in emergency services, in these circumstances. Reading the explanatory statement of the parliamentary assessment presented by the PSD, we do not see any purpose for it, nor even what the PSD wants with this initiative. In fact, I remember that we are in December, that the initiative entered in July and that the scheduling is your responsibility. The Government has decided, well, to create additional measures for the increased effort of doctors to work on emergency service teams, due to additional hours for the maintenance of the services to be operated. That is why the government made this diploma in July. in this diploma, the Government has clearly defined the terms of its application, the amounts to be paid, as well as the period of application of the exceptional and transitional arrangements. In reading it, we find the justification for the existence of this diploma: the ageing of the medical population — more than 40% of the staff are over 50 years old —, the dispensation of night work, the exemption from urgency, trying to avoid the use of external services and to value the resources of the medical teams themselves in hospitals. And all of this still happens, despite the existing effort—and this has already been confirmed—to strengthen the number of SNS professionals in net terms, because during the period 2015 to 2022, the number of specialists increased by 23 %. However, it is clear to the government and it is clear to all of us, doctors and users too — and I am sure that for this Parliament — that this is a transitional measure and not a definitive solution. However, Parliament and the Government are aware that the reforms in the Government Programme and the Recovery and Resilience Plan need to continue, as well as in other diplomas, measures such as those aimed at structural changes in the SNS. I refer, for example, to the domain of a model of governance of public hospitals, the increase in primary health care responses, the revision of the hospital reference network, among many others. In other words, the government has taken this measure, but it continues to invest in structural reforms. However, while they are not implemented, it is the government's duty to provide adequate solutions and tools to value the work of doctors in their paintings, who have to manage hospitals. Moreover: on this diploma, which is an object of appreciation, it is important to mention how the diploma was accepted by the representative structures of doctors, and I quote. The Independent Medical Union ( SIM), in a communiqué existing on its website on that occasion, referred to the essential on this decree-law: «The diploma now published is, however, a commitment and approach of the Ministry of Health to trade union positions. He then stated that he wished « (... ) as the Government, structural measures should be initiated ». But in addition to the SIM, Mr President of the Republic also referred to this diploma, considering, and I quote: 'this measure is a fundamental palliative, essential in a domain. The rest is much wider, goes through organization, passes through response capacity in various structures, at various times, throughout the country. It must therefore be a joint effort," he said. It seems that we all agree, that it must be a joint effort, and I say, it must be a joint effort by the Government to initiate the structural measures it has in its Government Programme, and that they are already in progress; it must be a joint effort by the representatives of the doctor's unions, who need to develop a negotiating framework with the government which, at the summit, has doctors and, on the other hand, users, Parliament and higher education institutions, who have to do their part to allow more students to be doctors. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Portuguese would not forgive anyone who wished to dismantle and not strengthen the SNS. We're all working to improve it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u136	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Free House.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u137	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Minister : The General Labour Act determines that from 150 hours overtime we should no longer work, and more and more doctors are refusing to work more than these extraordinary hours, and well, because no one has anything to gain, neither health professionals, nor, above all, users, with an overloaded National Health Service, with their professionals always on the brink of exhaustion. So, in the face of a problem that we all recognize is a problem, we have to see what will be the cure. It is in the domain of structural solutions, which cannot be found from today to tomorrow, but we cannot shoot them in 10 years' time when there are more medical graduates, already trained, to enter the National Health Service. And at least we have to ensure that there is transparency on the private side, so that the SNS knows who it is competing with and so that values, so as to seek at least retain its health professionals and even allow those who are abroad, with the "Return Health" Programme, as proposed by the Free, to return. For the immediate one, if we cannot go to the cure, we must at least go to the treatment and the treatment would be to pay overtime decently, from the first hour. What this government decree brings us is something that is somewhere, at best, between the palliative measure, as we have heard here being admitted—and sometimes palliative measures are needed, we have no doubts about it—and the placebo effect. The placebo effect has a problem: it only works if people don't realize it's a placebo. The problem is that, with regard to this decree, everyone realizes that this will not work and therefore not even the advantage of the placebo effect could have. Therefore, at the heart of this parliamentary assessment, which does not take the vote, and therefore is not here a question of being against or in favour of the government's decree, what is important is that the Government responds, to this measure that is between placebo and palliative, at the best of the hypotheses, what it will actually do for this winter, with this peak that we are already living, to be able to provide the National Health Service with responses that do not leave its professionals exhausted. [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u138	First of all, good morning to all and to all. So let's go to the closure of this point...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u139	Madam President, may I apologize for using the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u140	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr. João Dias?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u141	For an intervention, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u142	I did not give that indication to the Bureau, Mr President, but you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u143	Thank you for your understanding, Madam President, but, taking into account the time when the other parliamentary groups also have... Mr. Pedro Melo Lopes, really, is this really a report that the PSD presents as a solution to the problems facing health services? Oh, my God! Only if you're with us! I do not see, I do not identify concerns regarding the reconciliation of professional life with personal life, I do not see concerns about the provision of work in safety and health conditions of health professionals, I do not see concerns, in your intervention or in your initiatives, regarding the rest of health professionals, I do not see concerns with the limit of working hours and weekly rest,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u144	Talk to your germination friends!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u145	... but they come to talk about a report, concerned about the risk of health care providers not being able to perform their activities in the National Health Service. Mr. Deputies, what we need is more health professionals. They have to put their hands on the damage that the PSD has already caused to health professionals by degrading working conditions, and that the PS has not resolved, because it did not want, since it also had political conditions to do so, when the CFP presented the proposals and solutions in the Assembly of the Republic. [[PS protests.]] What we are witnessing here is, in fact, once again, turning our backs on health professionals when they are faced with difficulties. what we need is properly valued health professionals, duly paid, and not to degrade their working conditions, their wage conditions, so that they leave the National Health Service. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u146	For an intervention, I also give the floor to Mr Paulo Marques of the PS Parliamentary Group. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u147	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: Finally, I would just like to repeat the question of 'inapplicable', because during the course of this document I have the idea that we have not heard any Board of Directors, no one responsible for a hospital would say that it could not be implemented. None! [[PSD and CH protests.]] A little while ago, Mr. Secretary of State said that more than 274 doctors had entered the National Health Service, and this involved the effort that was being completed. Finally, I would also like to join this criticism of the report. In fact, it is very little for those who have asked for a parliamentary opinion to come and ask for a report on the implementation of a decree of law, but that is what we are used to, that is what the PSD has to give us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u148	We are now in a position to move on to the closure and to this end Mr Pedro Melo Lopes of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u149	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I have listened carefully to all the comments made to the parliamentary appreciation that the PSD here brought and the only thing the PSD wants is very simple:...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u150	It's a report!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u151	... to know, for every euro I spend more with this decree-law, what results or improvements, in the quality of health, is that the Portuguese have had. It's just that it's not hard for us to open the TV and see, on the news, that this diploma didn't solve anything. Mr. Secretary of State has high responsibilities in the direction of health in Portugal, moreover, he has already been head of ACSS and also Deputy Director-General of the Directorate-General for Health. Now, Mr. Secretary of State has seen the news of closed pediatric emergencies, chaotic emergencies, reaching 12 hours of waiting for urgent patients who should be seen in an hour, resignation from team leaders, and what Mr. Secretary of State says here: "But we have hired more doctors! Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr. Secretary of State, more money, more professionals and more problems has a name: bad management! It's bad management, Mr. Secretary of State! [[PSD applause.]] The Socialist Party, about this mismanagement, has nothing to say. On this mismanagement, the Socialist Party arrives here, not even speaks of the decree-law and then still composes the intervention, saying that this is applicable, that hospital administrators do not complain. Mrs. Members, a decree-law like this only and only perpetuates the culture of the Socialist Party, from the extended hand of hospital administrators. It is to reach the Ministry and say: « send here more money, because we have already exhausted the ceiling! » This is what you want, it is the submission of hospital administrators, because this is what the decree law will take, and it is leading. It's just that we, unlike us. Ladies and gentlemen, we talked to organizations and hospital administrators.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u152	In 2015 it was!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u153	Mr João Dias, from the CFP, was very concerned here not to discuss health, but with companies. Then he also tried to compose. Mr Deputies, respect for businesses, respect for private initiative, respect for small traders, for small businesses, which are very much the guarantor of this country. You have something against companies, but you have to resolve it out there, because you're not going to find a debate here. Let me tell you about the companies, that you were part of a management that allowed the private to grow 30% and that today more than half of the Portuguese population has health insurance and goes to the private sector, including the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen of management. [[PSD applause.]] To finish, the Left Block wanted to do a magic blow. In his office, at the end of the hour, he writes three or four quick measures to try to solve the problem of emergencies in Portugal. Ladies and gentlemen, first you hear the experts, you hear the entities. I call on you today to be present at a conference by the PSD Parliamentary Group on an emergency medicine specialty, which can help solve the problem, because you can know more about emergencies. It is not to arrive here with half a dozen rough measures and say: this is how it is solved! [[Protests by the Member of the BE Catarina Martins.]] I invite the Member of the Left Block and the Member of the CFP to give us the proposals on health, which they added to form the Government of Management. There's none! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u154	You all sucked at them!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u155	How can you say that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u156	Now Mr. Secretary of State for Health, Ricardo Mestre, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u157	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Finally, it seems to me that Mr Pedro Melo Lopes is very angry because there were 274 doctors who agreed to return to the SNS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It seems to have been very angry, because we are paying more to the doctors in the picture to do additional work on the SNS and it also seems to have been very angry, because we said here, initially, that this is a transitional solution, while there is a work going on for a final structural solution, and that this work is being done together with the medical professionals. I think we have been quite clear about this path, and I think that has left the honourable Member a bit angry, but I think that is no reason for that, because the structural solution will be negotiated with those who are right. I would like to conclude by referring only to the proposal from the Left Block, to remind you that these types of proposals have their space, their time, their specific framework. I remember that there is a network of emergencies and emergencies in the NSS with 90 points, between multi-purpose emergencies, medical-surgical emergencies and basic emergency services. And these basic emergency services, which are almost 39, have their position in the system and, in themselves, have their value. Therefore, within the framework of a transitional scheme to pay health professionals, while there is no definitive solution, to present a proposal that amends this whole network of emergencies I think it reveals a little what seems to be a lack of idea about what we are talking about right now, which is the issue of the payment of emergencies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u158	You're kidding! It can only be!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u159	I am very sorry, but this proposal effectively lacks a much more in-depth discussion which, of course, would never be done at this time. The network of emergencies that we have has its profile, its hierarchy, its value and the professionals who work there are organized within that network. The way we articulate with the network of emergencies and emergencies, the way we articulate with hospitals, the way we articulate with primary health care is something that we value very much, and this is what we will continue to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u160	We move on to agenda item three, with the joint discussion, in general, of Lein. 33 / XV / 1 Projects. a ( CH) — Determines the temporary exemption from IMI payment to the own and permanent housing building during the RPP period, 344 / XV / 1. a ( IL ) — Extends the municipal tax exemption on onerous transfers of property ( IMT ) to all own and permanent housing acquisitions ( amendment to the Municipal Tax Code on Onerous Real Estate Transmissions, as annexed to Decree-Law No 287 / 2003 of 12 November ), 365 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — It extends from three to five the period of temporary exemption from IMI for the acquisition of real estate for permanent housing, amending the Statute of Tax Benefits, and 366 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Creates an extraordinary financial support line for housing holders. To submit Bill No. 33 / XV / 1. Mr Filipe Melo.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u161	Madam President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have seen a particularly difficult time in Portuguese life. With this Socialist Government, inflation has already exceeded the 10 % barrier, energy products had a record rise of almost 28 %, unprocessed food products reached 19 % increase, the European Central Bank ( ECB ) has already warned that by 2023 the reference interest rate could reach 5 %. Since 1999 we have not had the reference rate in these values, the maximum reached on that date was 4 %. House benefits will rise in an unthinkable way. There is the risk, the serious risk, of families entering breach and of surrendering their homes. And this government, this socialist majority, instead of being concerned about the lives of the Portuguese, that they cannot pay their bills, that they cannot cope with the increase in the cost of living, that they can end their savings, are concerned with different facts, such as this last initiative of euthanasia, and, worse, in conjunction with the PSD, that, in a fun maneuver, in a drifting boat, without course, tries, in some way or other, to mark the agenda. Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party and the Social Democratic Party, who is seeing you there at home will feel ashamed of the rulers and representatives who have,... [[Congrats from the CH.]] ... that, at such a difficult time in their lives, at such a complicated time, when they go through serious financial difficulties, they talk about issues as futile, as basic — not to say worse — as euthanasia. They worry about giving the Portuguese life and quality of life and not about taking their lives. This is what should be your concern Given all these difficulties, the arrival presents a simple project that basically meets the needs of the Portuguese people, who will meet the difficulties they feel. The Commission proposes that, during the period in force of the RPP, the IMI (municipal property tax) be exempted for buildings up to € 350 000 intended for own and permanent housing. It's a way to ease the financial effort that families go through. It is a way of trying to give a little more dignity to these families, who live at such a troubled time. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mrs. Members, I show you some news that this government should be ashamed of, that they should be ashamed of this socialist majority and that they should be ashamed of, too, the bench of the Social Democratic Party, I say again, for bringing the debate subjects with such insignificant importance as that of euthanasia. And if not, see: the Lisbon Residents' Association refers to « The increase in interest and the risk of non-compliance», saying that thousands of families can be left homeless. The speaker showed the news he mentioned. OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) supports Euribor by 5 % in 2023. How many families will not be left without your home? Oh, my God! The speaker showed the news he mentioned. Christine Lagarde speaks in recession and one of the countries mentioned is precisely Portugal. The speaker showed the news he mentioned. On this information, is there a denial of this government? Is there a denial of the PS bench? Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, worry about the Portuguese! Shame on us! They discuss what really matters and stop questions such as euthanasia, abortion and related matters. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Protests from PS and from L Rui Tavares.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u162	For the presentation of Bill No. 344 / XV / 1. a ( IL), Mrs Carla Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u163	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Housing is a constitutional right, it is already a recurring issue in this House and it is the most taxed constitutional rights in Portugal. Only in this legislature have we had countless discussions about housing and we can quickly see here cleavages. On the other hand, the defense of statistical views on housing, in which it is thought that the increase in housing prices is the fault of some who can pay; or the state saying how it can be owner or landlord, when it does not even know the real estate that it owns. On the other hand, anyone who looks at numbers and the reality of the market and sees the problems of licensing, inadequate supply restrictions, bureaucracy, which involve increased costs and loss of competitiveness, and this brings together the weight of taxes. And today we also talk about the weight of taxes, particularly in three of the four bills brought to this debate. The Liberal Initiative presents here its draft law extending the exemption of municipal tax on onerous transfers of property to all own and permanent housing acquisitions. Currently the IMT Code provides for an exemption of IMT for own housing acquisitions up to a value of 93 331. With the approval of this State budget for 2023, the exemption is slightly increased, but if we repair since 2010 the value of the exemption has evolved by 8 %, which alone is scarce for price developments in the same period and, according to Eurostat, by 70 %. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u164	Housing in Portugal is highly taxed and an IMT exemption in the purchase of permanent own housing is only a relief for all the fiscal asphyxiation in which it lives. I remember that, with the same exemption, those who acquire permanent own housing still continue to pay the seal tax and every year they will pay IMI. In the face of rising housing prices, the response cannot be focused on public housing, the response cannot be focused on supply or demand subsidies and the solutions that come from the pocket of all taxpayers for the benefit of few. The government should have a role, yes, facilitator and regulator, and not a blocker, in licensing, bureaucracy, agility, fiscal stability and example in relation to public heritage. We therefore present this proposal, which crosses the importance and the need of the government to lose the right to tax everything and to help in the so-called constitutional right to housing, but in order to achieve this, the State must leave the front and abdicate its addictions of taxation and bureaucracy. That would make a lot of difference. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u165	For the presentation of Bill No 365 / XV / 1. a, of the NAP, has the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u166	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Housing is a fundamental right and, in the face of inflation and the escalation of the prices that Portuguese have made, but also the fact that we know that, from next month onwards, families will feel strongly about the rise in the benefits of housing credit due to the escalation of interest, it is important that we take measures. We must not forget that a family with a credit of €200 000 will see the benefit rise of €302 — an increase of 50 % compared to what they had paid one year ago — an increase that is not accompanied by salary increases and, less so, by the reduction of taxes. This context requires measures, and the measures that the Government has presented to us are not enough. We need to go further. It is necessary to ensure that there are other amendments, particularly with the proposals that the NAP brings here today, which are two very concrete and important proposals for families. On the one hand, the NAP proposes to increase the exemption from IMI from 3 to 5 years in terms of covering people already benefiting from this exemption. thus, who bought home in 2020 and who would lose the right to exemption next year could benefit from another two years' exemption. Thus, a small oxygen balloon will be given to families. We speak of a measure that will mainly come to young people and families who have bought home less time, who have amortized less debt and will therefore suffer more with the increase in interest rates. This is a proposal that seems to us to be of the most basic justice and that does not even go as far as the eight-year exemption, which lasted until the troika intervention in Portugal. On the other hand, the NAP proposes to create an extraordinary line with the IHRU ( Institute for Housing and Urban Rehabilitation, IP ), which lends interest-free loans to families to support the increase in interest rates. This is a proposal defended by DECO (Portuguese Consumer Protection Association), which has already had the precedent, during the pandemic, on the lease market, and which prevents families from having to apply for additional loans, with absolutely costly interest rates, which do more harm than they help. This proposal will, for example, cover families who cannot renegotiate their credit under the measures proposed by the Government. As it is the panaggio of the NAP, we hope that, in the field of expertise, there can be convergences for solutions that give answers and help families, particularly families with housing credit. Although we are defending the public offer, we must not forget that everyone, without exception, has the right to guarantee their home, even if it is their own and permanent home, as mentioned in the proposals in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u167	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u168	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Three of the four proposals under discussion today concern local taxes. However, when it comes to tax matters, we must agree that this discussion, in its entirety, would make more sense if it had occurred in the budget of the State, because, as we all know, by virtue of labour law, these legislative initiatives, if approved, will produce practical effects only from 1 January not from 2023, but from 2024. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u169	Having made this intro, it is important to recognize that the tax burden on housing is indeed very expressive. It overburdens families, prevents more private investment in affordable housing and is also an impediment to the earlier departure of young people from home. However, it is imperative to bear in mind that IMI and IMT are revenue from municipalities and have a very significant weight in their budgets. In 2021, the amount collected by the 308 Portuguese municipalities, with these two local taxes, was EUR 2824 million, representing on average more than 26 % of the total actual revenue of the Portuguese municipalities. It is also noted that the revenue from these taxes that municipalities can aspire to create conditions for implementing local responses in mitigating the social and economic impacts of war in Ukraine, persistent inflation, price escalation in the energy sector, rising food prices, rising interest rates and loss of income from their municipalities. And one thing we can be sure of: the local power, as seen in the fight against pandemics, never, but never missing the populations, even replacing the state, central administration. In fact, it should be said, it should be pointed out and it should be remembered that, shamefully, a debt of EUR 156 million still remains to be settled, due in this respect to the Portuguese municipalities. in this context, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it should be noted that any proposals affecting local taxes must always be balanced. It was with this concern that, in the discussion of the State Budget for 2023, the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party proposed that municipalities could totally exempt from IMT the first acquisitions of real estate for their own and permanent housing, up to the value of 250 000 €, by young people up to 35 years of age. Unfortunately for young people, this proposal, like others that we have tabled, in order to ease the tax burden and the charges that fall on Portuguese housing, have been rejected, by virtue of the compressor roll of the absolute majority of the Socialist Party, which, we agreed, does not surprise anyone. The Government of the Socialist Party is, irrevocably and irrevocably, addicted to tax collection. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u170	Mr Hugo Carvalho, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u171	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us discuss here four diplomas from three specific parties. And it is not to separate what are the proposals and the parties that are presenting them in this debate, and I would therefore like to go through all these proposals, but also the parties who are proposing them, because that is also enlightening for the debate. I'd start from the extreme right to the center, i.e., start by arriving. The proposal of the Arrival always follows a narrative that is common to all its proposals: it tries to balance in the dishes of a balance its proposal and the demagogy of its proposals. But when we place the demagogy of the proposals on the same scale as its proposals, there remains an imbalance. And the imbalance—of course the Arrival does not mention it, but it must be remembered— has to do with the one who loses the recipe that arrives here. They are the local authorities, they are the municipal chambers, they are the ones that, in the territory, are closer to solving people's problems. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u172	Yeah, it's the autarchs!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u173	So, what you arrive here has to say is: what are the roads that no longer requalify; what are the urban wastes that no longer collect;...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u174	Your corruption pays for all that! It's the direct adjustments!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u175	... what are the schools that no longer support; what are the municipal social support that no longer pay. That is, what comes here has to show is the other side of the coin, and is not able to show. As far as arriving, for us, it is clear. His demagogy is barring with the reality of the country, with the reality of those who need to support. It is not enough to say here that it is necessary to support the security forces, that it is necessary to support civil protection, when we then withdraw tools from those who are in the territory to support those same entities.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u176	It's the direct adjustments!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u177	It's only corruption in socialist cameras!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u178	When we move on to the Liberal Initiative, we also check a watermark on this proposal, a watermark present in all its proposals. The Liberal Initiative seeks to defend some particularly. But to defend particularly some does not necessarily mean that these are the ones most in need of protection. And this is the fallacy of the Liberal Initiative in this debate. The Liberal Initiative, the trailer of a proposal that wants to remind everyone that it is, seeks to give a great benefit to those who need the least. I am going to give examples, because it is good that we can talk about numbers in this debate. What the Liberal Initiative here is proposing is that someone who buys their housing for the amount of EUR 1 million will have a tax coupon of €60 000. What we stand for is something different. It is that these €60 000 which the Liberal Initiative intends to give to some, who do not need, are necessary for others to give justice, so that everyone has that idea of freedom that you want to defend. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u179	It's justice, it's justice!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u180	It's an idea of freedom in which everyone can walk for you. And these 60 000 € need...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u181	You need to get into one!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u182	...for the State to support those who need the most at a given time. Let me give you an example. It is due to the lack of these €60 000 that the Liberal Initiative wants to withdraw that the Liberal Initiative itself offers a student of higher education funding through a bank loan to pay its tips. These are the choices of freedom — or about freedom — that we will also be here to oppose. [[CH's laughs.]] at the center, or more at the center, the NAP presents two diplomas. One of them, who seeks to respond to the immediate problems of rising interest rates for Portuguese families, in particular for those who are experiencing the effects of this increase in interest rates, attaches a role to the IHRU in this same support strategy. I must say that the Socialist Party does not understand that this role falls to IHRU, because IHRU must be focused on solving structural problems of housing in our country. In the debate on Budget, the Socialist Party's options have been clear on this subject for a very short time. We understand that the rate of effort must be limited with banking institutions and that it must be given instruments so that families can renegotiate contracts with their banking institutions so that citizens can renegotiate their contracts. We do not want to de-responsibility of banking entities in this process. It is a collective process, in which we must give more strength to the weakest negotiating party, to the citizen, to renegotiate their housing contracts. And, therefore, here too, we disagree with the strategy to follow. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u183	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u184	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The initiative of the Arrival, by proposing to exempt the IMI during the RPP period, part of the wrong assumptions. [[CH Member Protests Bruno Nunes.]] Part of the wrong assumption that, as the State will have resources because of the PRR, it can dispense the IMI's revenue. However, we need to be aware that the RPP's funds are aimed at very concrete axes — and indeed, in our perspective, critical —...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u185	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u186	... but cannot in any way be used for the functions to which the IMI is destined, which is essentially to finance the authorities so that they can fulfil their obligations in such essential services for the population,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u187	You are the landowners of the real estate!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u188	The PCP is the biggest beneficiary! PCP doesn't pay IMI and we have to pay!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u189	... such as sewers, hygiene and urban cleaning, public lighting, equipment that serves the populations and all these services that are necessary and that the authorities ensure. If the proposal was approved, the RPP's funds would not replace the loss of resources which are essential for the authorities to fulfil their functions. It is not only to condemn the population to the worst services, but also to deepen territorial inequalities, because outside the large urban centres it would be the ability of the authorities to continue to maintain services without having the IMI's funds. The second wrong budget is common to the proposal of the Arrival and the proposals of the Liberal Initiative and the NAP. It is up to everyone to assume that the problem of access to housing is solved by the tax procedure. Well, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the housing crisis, which is becoming increasingly acute, has other origins and therefore requires other solutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u190	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u191	It is a crisis that results from the savagery of the lease market, with the deregulation of incomes, with the harassment of tenants, with the abuse of local housing,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u192	Get your real estate to rent! They rent your buildings, they're so many!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u193	... with preferential tax schemes which encourage price increases, redundancies and non-renewal of contracts. It is also a crisis in housing credit resulting from the ECB's policy of interest, which continues to adhere to the false solutions of the past,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u194	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u195	... that will always beat them, and also the opportunistic use of banks to brutally increase their profits at the expense of those who see the benefits of the house increase every month. The housing crisis also has as its fundamental reason that we are one of the countries of Europe with the lowest percentage of public housing. It is necessary, Mrs Deputy of the Liberal Initiative, an investment in the public housing park, as many countries have done—which are even referred to in the Liberal Initiative—which have a much higher percentage of public housing available. And this is a guarantee of state constitutional obligations, but it is also a way of pulling down the prices of the housing market.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u196	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u197	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u198	It was not because of the lack of initiative of the CFP that this response was not given. The CFP presented proposals, still now in the State Budget, to respond to those that are, yes, the real causes of the housing problem, all of them rejected by the PS, the PSD, the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival. It is not with false solutions that change structural problems; it is with courageous measures that confront the interests of real estate funds, of gold visas, of tax privileges regimes, that face the interests of the bank and give negotiating power to consumers, that prioritize the increase in public housing — such as those presented by the CFP and that the PS, the PSD, the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival have now rejected in the State budget. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u199	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u200	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are no more adjectives to qualify for the housing crisis, because it has reached a point of madness. The problem in housing is not a recent problem either. Prices have increased by 100 % in the last 10 years, long before inflation, long before interest increases. What is impressive is that the arrival and the Liberal Initiative — and the NAP, in some ways, refuse to hold the bank accountable for the way it earns the increase in interest in housing. They do not want to know about the speculation of real estate investment funds; they support visasgold and support the regime of the unusual resident, which gives tax bills to those who come to buy houses in urban centres; they are in paints for the wildery of local housing and tourism, and about what this is doing to housing and the right to housing;...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u201	What a horror!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u202	... they don't do anything or want to know about the law that allows the evictions of people who don't pay their rents; they don't want to know about any measure to control incomes, to lower the price of incomes, which are impossible. But they say the problem of housing is taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u203	And they are!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u204	They don't do anything else to move into the rules that make housing a hell of a place, but the problem of housing is taxes. Yesterday they were bides, today they're taxes. She tells us that housing is a constitutional right. Yes, it is a constitutional right, but in the profits of speculation no one touches! It is a constitutional right that needs to be protected, but only when it is to lower taxes, because when it is to touch the profits of speculation or talk about it. The problem of a T1 cost 200 000 € is not the IMI or the IMT, the problem is the cost of 200 000 € in a country where the salary is 1000 €! Even if IMT and IMI were zero, people would not be able to buy a T1 to 200 000 € because they do not have that money, because prices are impossible and wages are low. The problem is not taxes! There are several reasons why we should reject these proposals. Firstly, they do not solve the problem of housing or the madness of housing prices. Secondly, they are unfair. Look at the case of Arrival. A house with a taxable value of 350 000 € is a luxury mansion, it is a house that costs more than 1 million euros on the market. I would like to ask: why is it that a person who doesn't have a home, why does a person who can't buy a house, or who doesn't have a salary to rent a house, has to pay a tax bill that he wants to give to someone who has a mansion of 1 million euros? Why, if it is a policy of justice or a policy of access to housing? Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, these are not proposals for housing, they are proposals for tax bills to help and encourage the same ones of all time, who already have access to guaranteed housing—in fact, they are the only ones who already have access to housing, which has become a luxury. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u205	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u206	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is with some frustration that this debate is heard because, perhaps naively, a person still hopes that there will be coherence between the various debates that we have. Take a good look. The importance of the authorities is emphasized, for example, in front of the fight, of the meteorological phenomena that we have now had — cleaning up the tiles, cleaning up the streets and reducing the damage that has been caused — but on the same day, they will collect the taxes from the autarchs, the resources that the autarchs need to make drainage plans in their cities, which are expensive. In fact, it is good for the autarchs to know that there are people who speak very well of them when they act, who are on the front line of support to the populations, but, when it comes to taxes, they do gestures of robbery and of getting into the pocket,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u207	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u208	...as if the autarchs were thieves. Perhaps, this is something that deserved some repair, which is for the autarchs to know who are the hypocrites who do not defend them. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] Secondly, it should be noted that there is a problem of housing,... [[CH protests.]] ...there's a problem with real estate speculation and then negative externalities, which is one thing... [[CH protests.]] Madam President, I do not know if I can continue my speech. I've had enough of it. [[CH protests.]] ...but, as you get here, it's still too painful, it's going to keep screaming. Now I wanted to talk about the Liberal Initiative...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u209	Mr. Deputy, one moment, please. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u210	It's time for you!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u211	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask all of you to create the conditions for each speaker to speak. It's a right that people have. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there has also been time when I interrupted other benches and asked them to keep in mind that there was a speaker or a speaker from arriving in the use of the word. So let's respect it. Everyone has the right, we are free, in democracy, everyone has the right to express their ideas. Thank you very much. Please continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u212	Thank you very much, Madam President, until the arguments of the Arrival were out of hand. The Liberal Initiative probably understands the meaning of the expression « negative externalities ». And that's why taxes also serve. There is a problem in housing that needs to be tackled and, for that, we also need resources. The same with regard to the NAP proposal. I mean, I understand that it is necessary to address people's difficulties, but first of all, it must be the bank that creates opportunities for contracts to be renegotiated. It was with some surprise that I heard the PS say that it is in favour of it, but abstained from the proposal of the Free that allows people to lodge themselves from the variable rate at the fixed rate.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u213	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u214	Finally, I would like to say that I also feel some frustration on the left in relation to the lack of answers regarding a social and generational fracture that is being created in Portugal. It is that the rich continue to buy home and it seems that, for the middle class and for the middle-low class, the only answers we have are in the housing market. It's a bill that we're going to pay for face in the future and agreed that the left would put his eyes on it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u215	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Castro of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u216	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The same old bricks, the same narratives to cast confusion. Yes, there are serious problems in the housing. They forget that people out there know that it is not the Liberal Initiative that has been in government.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u217	They're cousins! They're next cousins!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u218	What can perfectly point out is your incapacity and your guilt in this process and in the problem of housing. Yeah, you can take that. Sorry to throw sand for the eyes. With regard to Mr. PS, I tell him what the fallacy is: for PS, people who buy houses of 100 000 € are rich. For the Liberal Initiative, they are not. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u219	Mr Carlos Eduardo Reis, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u220	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by thanking the NAP for bringing to this plenary the issue of housing credit, although we can disagree on the form and content of the proposals. Portuguese who have lived for two decades with the horizon of life a month, of course, see in this rise of interest rates this idea gain a new dimension and, therefore, the subject is urgent and I bless the honourable Member for that. Basically, what has been proposed is the creation of a line of financing for housing holders, something which I understand is the goodness of going in line with what the DECO proposes and which has the goodness to be different from what the government proposes, but which brings debt together. The PSD considers that adding debt to debt in this case is not beneficial. We preferred deductions to IRS collection. If we are going to talk about deferring payments, we would prefer to penalise the last 5 or 10 years of credit contracts, so that we can now release 2023 and 2024, and we still propose a more courageous measure, i.e. proposals that would "require" us to change the credit profile granted in Portugal — change variable rate at a fixed rate, which, although now penalising Portuguese, could give some stability in what we are going to pay at the end of the month and we were not so subject to this volatility. Speaking of obligation, what is the problem with the measures taken by the government on housing credit? They just thought the bank was forced to renegotiate something. Only those who have never worked with the bank do think that the bank will, in this renegotiation, lose guarantees. We know, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no magic solutions to this, because this renegotiation that the government'must' — among the big quotes — will be condemned only to penalise the Portuguese more and therefore this debate is very important.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u221	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u222	I shall conclude, Madam President, only with this idea: every Portuguese sitting with a bank to renegotiate its credit contract leaves there with the renegotiated contract, if you are lucky, only in the extension of the deadline—because the bank will profit with more interest—but also with the reclassification of the credit. in one, two, six months or in one year, if you want to ask for the issue of a simple credit card, you will have many difficulties. Let's keep talking about this. The PSD is, of course, available for this commitment. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u223	Let us turn to the end of this debate. To that end, Mr Filipe Melo of the Parliamentary Group of the United States of America has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u224	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: At the conclusion of the debate — which is not productive, it is said in favour of the truth — I would like to remind you that Mr Freeman does not want to reduce or end IMI because of the authorities and the gains of the authorities. It must be to pay to his nine advisors who have in the City Hall of Lisbon! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u225	I pay less than the others!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u226	In reply to the honourable Member from the CFP, I have to say that the honourable Member has come to say that we are starting from a wrong budget. Let's see: the PCP has a real estate network within which it does not pay IMI, does not want to pay IMI, but wants the Portuguese to pay.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u227	We are the most paid party in Portugal!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u228	Sir, there's a decoration! You have a real estate network of yours, you have an infinite amount of real estate, you don't pay IMI, but the Portuguese can pay. Explain this to them and explain to them also why it does not pay the taxes of the Front Party. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The Member of the Left Block says that this does not solve the housing problems. Mrs. Member, a little bit of good sense would be good for you. This proposal is not to solve housing problems, it is to give the Portuguese a budgetary strike.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u229	to the millionaires!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u230	It's a strike, it's a strike!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u231	For housing proposals we already have a lot. This is not about housing, this is about tax and budgetary offsetting, you understand. Mr. Member of the Socialist Party, of course he criticizes the coming and everything else. Mr. Deputies, criticize your corrupt autoarchs, who manage cameras from home, in house arrest,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u232	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u233	... because, yes, with direct adjustments, fraud and theft, they divert money from the various chambers, which oblige the Portuguese to pay those taxes. If there were no such fraud and corruption installed within your party, surely the taxes could end and the Portuguese did not have to pay. Therefore, Mr President, think before you speak and before you go to the extreme right, as you so much like to say. They think they're the only ones who're in the intransigent defense of the Portuguese and not with one hand to take and the other to give, full of nothing. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u234	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u235	Mr. Deputies, for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u236	Madam President, it is a pleasure to see you here preside over the session, but I have to ask for the honor of the bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u237	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u238	Mr President, unfortunately, we have these incidents, even in some cases, when Members speak of the far-right Parliament. The Socialist Party believes that parliamentary debate must confront ideas and must be alive, but accusations directed to the Socialist Party of corruption and corruption... [[CH's laughs.]] ...makes the debate go from confrontation of ideas to pure and harsh insult. [[Protests by CH Member Pedro dos Santos Frazão.]] We are not going to accept that the Parliamentary Group and the Socialist Party are being insulted, even more so when it comes to a bench which, unfortunately, so far has not been able to pass statutes in the Constitutional Court. You have to say it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]] Corruption fights with law, fights with security forces, fights with the judicial system. Corruption does not fight by shooting at each other such arguments. The Socialist Party's bench, in this case, defends its honour as a party that has been in the foundation of the democratic rule of law in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u239	To reply, Mr Filipe Melo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u240	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the media number that the leader of the socialist board has now done is not the same, because it is not the bench of the Arrival that makes these accusations, but that is what comes daily in the media. So if you want to accuse the social communication of anti-constitutional and not to be also in the genesis of the formation of democracy, that is your statement, it is not ours. The media daily informs and exposes the means of socialist corruption. [[Protests from PS Eurico Brilliant Dias and Maria Begonha Members.]] It's not the bench of arrive, it's the media! Therefore, Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias, do not defend the honor of your bench to arrive, do so to the media. It's too bad. When are there cases that come daily in the press, from ministers to state secretaries and the authorship, Mr. Deputies comes to defend the honour of what? from your bench is one thing, from the cases that are being judged and investigated is another thing. Mr President, it was very wrong to invoke another point of the constitutionality of the party. One thing is a statute that is not approved and that will be reviewed and submitted again in due course, another thing is a Constitutional Court that is appointed and that has decided to involve with one party, when there are other parties that use central committees and keep everything the same. [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u241	So persecution must continue, but we will resist, whether you want it or not. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u242	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u243	Mr. Deputies, for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u244	Madam President, for an appeal to the Bureau. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u245	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u246	Mr President, I would like to make an inquiry on the conduct of the proceedings, just to inform the House that the defence of honour — and Mr President, apparently, he did not understand, so I would like to clarify — is about the generalization he has done, even more so because he has condemned some who are still in court proceedings and we all have the right to presumption of innocence. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u247	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u248	Mr Filipe Melo, we will not prolong this debate, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u249	Madam President, it is to make an inquiry to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u250	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u251	Madam President, I would like to make it clear that the honourable Member, the leader of the socialist bench, warns me that I did not make any judgement. This judgment, to be done, will have been done by the social communication. [[PS laughter.]] I just referred here to what I have read and what has been published in the media. Who came into consideration about the coming party was Mr. Eurico Brilliant Dias. We simply refer to our right of reply and that is what we did, I say again, on the basis of what we read daily in the media. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u252	Now, yes, we move on to the fourth point of our agenda, which consists in the general assessment of Law Projects Nos 62 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Reduce to 35 hours the maximum working time limit for all workers ( 19 ). the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code) and 364 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Ensure more rest and leisure time by reducing the maximum limit of the normal working period and the right to 25 working days of vacation in the public and private sectors and the Resolution Project No 292 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends the progressive decrease in working hours, with the establishment of 35 hours per week, and the progressive increase in the holiday period, with the immediate institution of 25 days of vacation. To present the CFP initiative, Mr Alfredo Maia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u253	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft reduction law for 35 hours of the maximum working time limit for all workers, both in the Public Administration and in the private sector, and without loss of remuneration, which the CFP brings to the discussion puts to this House the opportunity of social and civilizational advancement, improving working conditions, health and well-being of the generality of workers. The generalization of the maximum limit of 7 hours of the daily working day, in force in the Public Administration and in several private sectors, corresponds to a fair requirement of workers. The measure aims at a greater reconciliation between work and personal and family life, especially the interaction of parents with children, greater protection of health in the face of working conditions often intense, painful and worn-out, physically and intellectually, and even modernizing and making more efficient models of working time organization. Promulgated on May 7, 1919 — i.e. 103 years ago — for trade and industry workers, the eight-hour daily journey was achieved six decades ago, also by rural workers, after struggles and strikes severely suppressed in the Alentejo and Ribatejo. The enormous advances and achievements in the scientific, technical and technological plans that companies have incorporated in recent decades, particularly in the areas of automation and robotics, which do not cease to innovate and grow, allow, precisely, to continue to progress. The maintenance of the maximum limit of the normal working period, set in 1996 in the 40 hours — indeed, imperfect — is today unjustifiable and incomprehensible, having evolved very little since the consecration of the 48-hour day since 1919. We can say that the progress of 1996 was late, since in 1962, i.e. 34 years earlier, the International Labour Conference had adopted a recommendation calling for the progressive reduction of the duration to 40 hours without reduction of the salary. In Portugal, where on average 41 hours work, one of the largest media in Europe, it is possible to produce more, with better quality, greater efficiency and in less time, therefore more efficiently, and to translate such advances into improving working conditions, health and quality of life. The growing technological incorporation in industry, trade and services cannot serve as an alibi to companies for the reduction of labour, at the same time as more and more workers are taxed on continuous work arrangements, on Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, shift work, hourly banks, adaptability of hours and irregular hours. Mrs. Members, technical and technological advances should no longer be an instrument of greater accumulation of capital and aggravating the imbalance in the distribution of wealth. It is urgent to place them as a decisive means of relieving the burden on workers, improving their incomes and their quality of life. Those who try to seduce the workers with the idea of the four-day working day per week, we mean that the right path is what we propose: maximum working days of 7 hours per day and 35 per week. [[PCP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u254	To submit Bill No. 364 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) has the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u255	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If we think about forms of work today, we should think about them differently. The long hours that work in Portugal do not necessarily have to mean greater productivity. The flexibility and reduction of working hours and thus a true reconciliation between family and professional life are the way for a more evolved society and for what has been defended by some specialists as an economy of well-being and happiness, which must also be in the equation of development and metrics to evaluate the growth of a country. The reduction of working hours to the 35 hours per week proposed by the NAP is no longer than the equalization of hours already practised in the public service to the private sector. This reduction of hours, together with the increase in the holiday period for 25 days in private and in the public, would not only allow longer rest time for the family and leisure, but also ensure greater productivity and development of skills and qualifications by workers, which will necessarily bring more competitiveness to businesses, job creation and promotion of workers' well-being, which must be done without any loss of rights. The salary cut, in the already low Portuguese salaries, cannot and should never be on the table. Nor can we forget that, in addition to the long hours of work in Portugal, there is still an inequality and time overload for women, who continue to be mainly responsible for domestic work associated with family life. With regard to the productivity levels per worker or the levels verified per hour worked, Portugal is significantly below the European Union average, which only proves that productivity is not directly associated with the number of hours worked, as often, and erroneously, is made to believe. This is exactly what the NAP has been presenting in its various initiatives to promote the well-being of workers, which so often hinders the intransigence of PS and PSD. It is time to get rid of the conservatism that you have seen, on the long working day, the only way to work and to ensure that there is, in fact, more efficiency and competitiveness, but without harming our well-being and happiness. If we don't live for that, what do we live for, after all?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u256	To present draft resolution No 292 / XV / 1. a ( L ), I give the floor to Mr Rui Tavares.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u257	Mr President: The discussion on working hours and rest time for workers is a discussion in which we must honour the past and project the future. We must honour the past because the achievement of the 8 hours of work, the five-day week and so many other labour rights, such as paid holidays, has marked the 19th and 20th centuries indelibly and allowed us to affirm the truth that people do not exist to be born and then to work until they die. Honoring this debt we have towards the labor struggles of the last centuries is that we, in our time, continue to fight for these rights that have so hard to conquer. But this is a struggle, too, that tells us about the future, and about the future of our country's productivity and economic structure—yes, because it is possible to work much less than what we work in Portugal and produce much more value added. Some countries in the European Union, which, for example, have the highest part-time work rates, are also those that produce the most per-hour working hours. Productivity does not mean being at work for many hours; it means, in every hour that is at work, producing value. So there is a challenge in Portugal on the public side, on the side of all economic agents, to regain productivity gains that we have already had in the past and that we have stopped having since the beginning of the century, being overcome by many other countries of the European Union and the European continent, such as Turkey. In social dialogue, this dialogue has not advanced. There is a certain atavism in the way we view this problem which makes it considered that it is always inappropriate to move forward to 35 hours of work, which already exist in the public and in some sectors of the private sector and which should be generalised as a way to share working time and increase productivity, but also the increase to 25 working days of paid holidays, which the Free will defend in this proposal and which enables us to regain rights which, in some cases, we have already had. To honor those and those who have sacrificed so much so that today we could enjoy the rights to leisure, the balance with family life and the education and training we have today we must also strive to gain a more productive economy, with higher added value, where less hours at work mean more wealth to the country and a more advanced economy than everyone will benefit.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u258	Mr Jorge Galveias, from the Czech Republic, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u259	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, Portuguese workers have been living the worst social situation since the Revolution of Cravos. The policies of the PS and its extreme-left partners have shot and continue to throw millions of workers into the poverty situation. To make it clear, there are currently about 4 million Portuguese at risk of poverty. Today, having work is no longer enough for a Portuguese not to be poor. The degradation of the economy, the low productivity and the lack of competitiveness of Portugal, as well as the high tax burden and the weight of an ineffective state and justice are the cause of this social misfortune. It just doesn't see the obvious who doesn't want, that is, the Socialist Party and its government. Public debt is increasing and will continue to grow with Medina and António Costa under the baton of the PS bench. Mrs. Members, the workers are no longer wrong, because whenever they approach a gas pump, a supermarket or a public hospital, reality speaks higher. But this reality is not just the responsibility of the PS. All those who have been part of the management are accomplices. It's not worth shaking the water from the hood. Today, the PCP, the PAN and the Free, Bengals of the same management, present proposals in this Assembly. They could have done so in a somewhat more favourable economic period than the current one, but they did not want to disturb the government leader who, with them, led the country to the present state. It's time to stop with accounting policy maneuvers. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is no improvement in the recovery of working conditions without improving national economic conditions. There will be no real improvements in the conditions of workers if the State does not reduce the tax burden suffocating small and medium-sized enterprises. There will be no improvement in living conditions without reducing taxes on workers. Mrs. Members of the left benches, the enemies of the workers are not the bosses and the enemies of the bosses are not the workers. The enemies of workers and employers are the state and the socialist system. Note that I am referring to the system and not to the regime, words with which the Socialist Party so much likes to try to confuse the Portuguese. The system is socialist, the regime is democratic. It is time for workers and employers to join against this system that, for 47 years, is the enemy of the working class and Portugal cannot be a new Venezuela. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, today the great concerns of the Portuguese, perfectly legitimate, are much more than 35 hours of work or more days of vacation. Today, the great concern of the Portuguese is to put food on the table to starve the children. Many are already forced to ask for alms and others to steal tuna cans. This is what the management left the working class. Workers know that socialism will not pass with the arrival and with André Ventura to rule. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u260	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr Rui Rocha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u261	Mr President: I believe that, in order to understand what is at stake here today, in these three proposals which are presented to the House, we must take into account that there have been legislative amendments that took place in 2019 and that are not even regulated, some of them. We are currently in Parliament, within the Commission, discussing and voting on the Dignified Work Agenda and therefore there are a number of amendments which have been introduced. Some of them, as I say, have not even been regulated and therefore, without seeing the effect of these changes on the labour market, we will introduce new changes of great significance on the labour market with the question of the Dignified Work Agenda, and now there are proposals for reducing working hours. The Liberal Initiative, on this point, has a very clear vision. The issues of productivity and family balance are fundamental, but there cannot at present be a general legislative amendment, by law, which imposes itself on all sectors. In Portugal, the sectors currently have different stages of evolution and therefore this type of evaluation and intervention must be at the level of collective bargaining and should move forward where workers and companies find viability for this rather than in a tax form that covers all sectors. [[PCP protests.]] It's important, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, in this House these last few weeks, for example, Parliament's officials have been far from being able to carry out even the 40 hours of work which are extended beyond what is acceptable from the point of view of such family balance and the well-being of people. So it is with some hypocrisy that this matter is brought here, when Parliament itself does not ensure that the officials of this House comply with the rules that are in force today. [[Applause from the IL.]] Therefore, we should not only make signs of virtue and do what we also promise in this House. On the other hand, to talk about hypocrisy, I would like to ask whether the reduction to the 35 hours per week proposed here at this time will also be to apply, for example, to the doctors of the National Health Service. If it is, I would like to understand how they will solve the issue, which is now very serious, of the lack of doctors, services and emergencies and how they think they will solve it by further reducing the hours of work of doctors. [[PCP protests.]] We are talking about hypocrisy, imposition and signification of a fully outmoded virtue of the reality of the country and, therefore, the Liberal Initiative will, of course, oppose these proposals which are presented here today. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u262	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Olga Silvestre has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u263	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP insists on presenting a bill with the aim of reducing the maximum weekly time limit for all workers to 35 hours. The NAP, in turn, proposes to ensure more rest and leisure time by reducing the maximum limit of the normal working period and the right to 25 working days of holidays in the public and private sectors. And the Book recommends the gradual reduction of working hours, with the immediate institution of 35 hours, as well as the progressive increase of the holiday period, with its passage, also immediately, to 25 working days. They all aim at substantial changes to the Labour Code and do so with their own lightness. Labour legislation is the result of an effort of social dialogue and tripartite understanding, and therefore a balanced and stable legislation. It is never too much to repeat that without good workers there are no good companies, and vice versa,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u264	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u265	...and it is in this relationship that balance, stability and trust are built. The Labour Code is, above all, an instrument which reconciles apparently divergent interests between work and capital and which is at the service of economic development and ensures the sustainability of social development. The PSD, as a humanist party, focuses its activity on the dignity of the human person. This is your watermark. [[PSD applause.]] In the past, in the present and certainly in the future, the PSD will continue to be faithful to its principles: the defense of social dialogue, respect for the legality and the defense of the social state.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u266	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u267	In the first instance, labour must be the result of an extensive discussion and a huge tripartite consensus. Only then will Parliament exercise its legislative function, with the guiding principle of respect for the balance between the social partners. The principles of balance and stability are fundamental to the work legislative building. This is the only way to ensure that all actors have mutual trust, and this amendment cannot be unilateral, the tow of unipersonal interests of the left parties. Mrs. Members, the CFP, the Free and the NAP present projects that seriously debalance the Labour Code. It is not to be admired, because they are left with a conflicting view of labour relations and thus devalue and abhor the convergences achieved in social consultation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u268	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u269	The PSD, as already mentioned, defends workers, families and businesses. Workers are, in fact, the largest resource of any company and its happiness will surely pass by having good wages, good working conditions and a greater reduction in the tax burden.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u270	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u271	But only robust companies financially can pay robust wages and, if they fail, there is no other way to have better wages. For this reason, companies should be reduced in context and tax burden—as the PSD defends, and even proposed, but the majority that supports the government is reluctant to make musk ears. [[PCP protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the question is whether this is the time for these projects. No, this is not the time,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u272	It's never!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u273	... as the debate on the speciality of the revision of the Labour Code is taking place at Parliamentary level, where these issues are also addressed. Thus, there is clear political use, despising and ignoring the work being carried out in parliament. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u274	They're going to tell the workers that there's political exploitation!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u275	We should also ask ourselves: shouldn't these issues be addressed in the projects that are agreed upon in the context of social consultation? Oh, my God! It is worth noting that companies are currently struggling for labour, even in some economic sectors with a deep shortage, at the risk of closing doors, on the one hand, due to the lack of labour and, on the other hand, to the exponential increase in the costs of context. Is it with this scenario that they propose the reduction of working hours and the increase in working days? Oh, my God! The PSD believes that no, it is not appropriate, and only those who do not have the slightest notion of reality are that at the moment these proposals are being put forward. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the road is moving, rising step by step, with safe, assertive and confident steps, and not with an exacerbated and aimless rush, because at this time it can be difficult to recover. And what we all want, at the end of the day, is to have happy workers and robust companies, because that is the only way to build a developed country,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u276	Yeah, yeah! ... At the expense of the impoverishment of workers!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u277	...because a happy worker is like a boat that sails in a favorable wind, hardly feels the effort of the trip. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u278	For an intervention, on behalf of the Left Block, Mr José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u279	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It has been said here since 1919, of more than a century, that the law which established the maximum of eight hours on the daily working day in trade and industry, welcoming a flag that is the origin of the first 1. the May one: eight hours to work, eight hours to rest and eight hours to own life, for leisure, for the family. So many years later, more than a century later, with so much increase in productivity, with so much technological innovation, how did we make so little progress in reducing the daily working day and normal working time, in the number of hours we worked per week? And we made so little progress, because the gains of the economy were not put at the service of the majority, they were not put at the service of work, of life. How many people today in Portugal work more than eight hours a day! Open... This, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is imbalance. Disequi imbalance are the multiple and insidious ways of prolongation of the working hours that exist today; imbalance is the worker of the cash box, who has a working hours well over eight hours long working hours, because of the hours of hours banks and of deregulation; imbalance is what happens to the work hours; imbalance is what happens to work by shifts; imbalance is the millions of hours extra paid, worked at hotel or in restoration; imbalance is the working hours, which have a working hours well over eight hours, which have a working hours well over eight hours, because of the hours of work, because the hour-to-day imbalance is what happens with work per shift; imbalance imbalance is the millions of hours extra paid off working hours, worked in hotels or in restaurants; imbalance is the working hours employed at hotel or in the restaurant; imbalance is the working hours working hours; imbalance is a culture of permanent availability, which uses the new technologies to demand workers who are always linked, making real incursions for the rest time, for the workers; 14 imbalance; imbalance is the days of work days; imbalance is the work days of work; imbalance; imbalance; imbalances of work; imbalances; imbalances; imbalances; imbalances of work is the work is the work is a's; imbalance; imbalances of work is an imbalances of work is a culture of work is a culture, which is a culture, which is a culture of permanent, which is a culture of permanent, which is a culture of permanent culture of permanent, which is a culture of permanent, which is a culture of permanent availability of permanent availability of permanent availability of permanent availability of permanent, which uses, which uses, which uses, which uses, which uses, which uses of permanent availability of permanent availability of permanent availability, which uses, which uses of permanent availability, which uses, which uses the job, which uses the job, which uses the job, which uses the job, which uses the job, which uses the new, which uses the new, which uses the new, which uses the new, which uses the new, which uses the new, which uses the new, which uses, which uses the new, which uses the new, which uses, which uses the new, which uses of the new technology, which uses the new technology, which uses the new technology, which uses the new technology, the new technology, which uses the new technology, which uses the new technology to the job, which uses the This is imbalance and it is in this absurd, contradictory, paradoxical situation that we are, in many cases today, working more than the definition of the law, on the daily working day in 1919. We have, in some cases, rules worse than those we had in 1915 when the law established that the overtime worked were paid for twice. This norm lasted until the 21st century, but it had to come the troika alter it and the Socialist Party did not even accept to recover this republican principle of 1915, of the extra hours paid for by double. So, yes, 35 hours and 25 days of vacation is an elementary step to have more time to live, to harmonise the conditions between the public and the private, to return one of the thefts in working time, which comes from the troika, which is that of vacation days, to promote the creation and distribution of jobs. In fact, we are discussing this in the specialization of the Dignified Work Agenda, with proposals from the 35-hour Block, for the replacement of holidays and also for the regulation of working hours. It does not cease to be contradictory that the Socialist Party itself, the same government that makes pilot projects on the four-day week does not accept, even 35-hour week, does not accept, even, accept, even, return to the workers the holidays that were stolen from them.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u280	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u281	I conclude, Mr. President. I would also like to tell Mr Rui Tavares that we find it absurd to make a recommendation for the government to change the law of work on holiday days. It is we, the Parliament that changes the law of work, not the government. That's what the government wants,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u282	It's another study! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u283	... that labour law is negotiated between the Government and social consultation, but this is Parliament's competence, and only Parliament's competence.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u284	It's just he doesn't know!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u285	We have not been elected to ask the government or social consultation; we have been elected to change, to do the labour law. It is up to us, and that is why we must adopt these measures now and next week. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u286	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernando José has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u287	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the initiatives of the PAN, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Free Party, which deal with matters which aim to densify labour rights and promote reconciliation between professional and family life and which are considered priority in the political action of the Government and the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. In fact, at the end of 2015, the Government, the Socialist Party and the parties to the left of the PS began a path of repositioning rights, combating job insecurity, raising wages and promoting collective bargaining, and not even because of the most difficult phase of our collective life, which followed an unexpected political crisis, this path was interrupted. Strengthened by the absolute majority that the Portuguese have entrusted to the PS, we continue this path, not taking a step back in the conquests achieved, even in the face of a crisis in which inflation affects Europe and the world. in this context, the response to the crisis continues to be given with solidarity and not with austerity, with the eyes set in the future and the enormous challenges that are approaching, but not forgetting the important steps that have been taken so far. As an example, the devaluation of wages and careers of employees of the Public Administration, sponsored by the right, was replaced by defrosting careers and wage valuation. After 35 hours of work in the Public Administration and wages cut off from the rule and framework, and in a context of enormous uncertainty and times of great need, the Government continues to base its work on the primacy of the dialogue, which has enabled us to achieve a historical understanding with the social partners, a medium-term agreement for the improvement of income, wages and competitiveness, which will bring greater stability and predictability to workers and their families, a unique and historic agreement that will ensure the maintenance of the path of valuation of the minimum wage up to €900 in 2026, an increase of 39, 6 % between 2015 and 2022, an increase of 78 %, up to 2026. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Now, in this way to combat job precariousness and the densification of labour rights, and after approval here, in the Assembly of the Republic, the Government will promote the implementation of the Fair Work Agenda and Youth Valuation in the Labour Market, which includes a wide range of measures to combat the abuse of temporary work, to strengthen the rights of workers who work through digital platforms, to promote reconciliation between work and personal and family life, in a framework of equality between women and men, and also to promote collective bargaining. You will say the left to the left of the PS that we could go further on the Dignified Work Agenda, say the right that we are going too far and will say others, yet, that this is not the time. The fact is that, here, this is the time, this is the time to strengthen the path taken in the replacement of rights, in combating job insecurity, in valuing employment, in promoting collective bargaining, in sum, in the implementation of the Dignified Work Agenda, which is reflected in several amendments to labour law, changes that do not represent cuts in rights or withdrawals, but rather more and better rights. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the initiatives of the NAP, the Free and the CFP, labour legislation already lays down a set of specific conditions with regard to the organisation of working time, including the normal working time and maximum working time limits. It should also be noted that the principle of the most favourable treatment applies to the time limits of the normal daily and weekly working periods, with the organization of working time being a matter of excellence within the scope of collective bargaining. On the other hand, in 2023, and in conjunction with the Standing Committee on Social Consultation, the Government plans to promote a study on new models of work organization, with a pilot programme aimed at analysing and testing new models of work organization, including the four-day week. As regards the right to 25 days of vacation per year, it should be noted that the increase has never been enshrined in the Labour Code as such. This increase of holiday days was awarded to workers as a prize. However, as we well know—and the right knows better than all of us— this rule ceased to exist in 2013. In the face of all that is at stake — and to conclude, Mr President and Mr President. Members — it should be noted that neither the 35 hours per week nor the 25 days of holiday were subjects covered by the income agreement, and a possible amendment, to be promoted during the duration of this agreement, must be carried out within the framework of social consultation. Let us therefore concentrate on the implementation of the Dignified Work Agenda, for which we are all summoned, moving forward, without delay, in the amendments to labour legislation, so that they will enter into force at the beginning of 2023. To find the necessary platforms of understanding in social dialogue and here, in the House of Democracy, to move forward, with firmness, in new models of work organization, as a way to enhance the reconciliation between professional and family life and better respond to the challenges of the present and the future of work in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u288	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr Rui Rocha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u289	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Fernando José, I know that you are still 'in transit' for your place, but I would like to comment on your speech, which is also a challenge. The honourable Member spoke about the Dignified Work Agenda and has been very, very vehemently on this issue. I endorse the need for work to be worthy, but I wanted to make a comment, which is such a challenge that I would like to propose to you: for when a dignified taxation agenda, for work to be justly compensated... [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] ... and that the effort, dedication and merit of the Portuguese workers have the right reward and not the state to keep that fair reward, which is corresponding to the work of the Portuguese? Oh, my God! [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u290	To close the debate, Mr Alfredo Maia has the floor on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u291	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I would like to leave a few brief notes on the interventions. Starting with Mr Jorge Galveias, I just want to say that, during the course of the new period of national life, the CFP has not only restored the 35 hour schedule in the Public Administration,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u292	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u293	... as he defended it for the generality of workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u294	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u295	Mr Rui Rocha, yes, there are different speeds in the various sectors and there are also very severe increases during the working day. I only note that in 2021, 224 processes were completed with a view to expanding work and continuing work. It is one of the largest volumes recorded since 2010. Mrs Olga Silvestre, the CFP does not renounce its autonomy as regards legislative initiative and therefore, once again, presents on this occasion a bill, as presented in others and how perhaps it will have to present it in others.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u296	We're gonna keep fighting!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u297	We'll keep presenting them!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u298	The honourable Member says that this is not the right time. Question: But what is the opportune time? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u299	For PSD, never!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u300	In fact, this reminds me of the basis for the legislative procedures of the New State, in which the Government was saying 'good, we, from a social point of view, think that it is better to walk in this direction, but it is good to go curating the interests of companies'. And the truth is that the interests of companies actually correspond to the accumulation of wealth at the expense of work. Mr Fernando José said that the projects presented correspond to the objectives of the Socialist Party and the Government, and the question is asked: then why do they not practice them? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u301	Of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u302	Why don't you practice them? They also refer us back to the PSD Member for collective bargaining, for social consultation, etc. I should like to recall the terms in which in 1996 the Socialist Government's proposal for a law, chaired by Antonio Guterres, proposed a limitation of 40 hours.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u303	It's true! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u304	Do you know what the argument was? It was that, in collective bargaining, it was shown that this limit could not be established.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u305	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u306	This says everything! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u307	We therefore conclude the fourth item on the agenda and we will begin the voting period. Before that, Mr Ventura is registered to make a complaint about the votes. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u308	Mr President, it is indeed a complaint, but also an appeal to the Bureau at the same time to make a statement and request clarification. Article 96 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure, the vote script for Friday should be sent until 6 p.m. on Wednesday when the votes take place on Friday. As has happened, I do not think, with all the other parliamentary groups, have received the script until the time established in the Rules of Procedure so that the Rules of Procedure add that, if these deadlines are violated, that is, after these deadlines, there is a need for consensus from all parliamentary groups for the script to be changed or, in this case, for it to be brought here, because there was none. I would like to say that the final text of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on Bills 5 / XV / 1 is opposed to the final text. a ( BE), 74 / XV / 1. a ( PS ), 83 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) and 111 / XV / 1. a (IL) vote should be taken at this plenary session, since — and we have proof that the vote script will be delivered, which we will bring to the Bureau — has been violated the rule laid down in the Rules of Procedure, of Wednesday 18 hours, thus requesting its postponement to the expected plenary session. Mr President, I would just ask that, if you can, clarify this, and it is a matter of regulation, it is not a political issue. In line with this, Mr President, Article 155 ( 2 ). the Rules of Procedure also say that if the final text of the law is approved in Parliamentary committees, the final text of the law is sent to the Plenary for a comprehensive final vote at the second meeting following its publication in the Diário — a publication which, as far as we are informed, has not happened until the time we are here — or to its distribution, in rough sheets, to parliamentary groups, distribution, this, which has not happened either. However, the violation of two objective rules of the Rules of Procedure, Mr President, is not a matter of deliberation or appeal, it is objectively a violation of the rules of the Rules of Procedure, which means that there is no other solution in our view than the postponement of the vote of this final text of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which I have just referred to for the second plenary session after being published in the Journal of the Assembly of the Republic, which has not happened so far. It is therefore opposed to the text being voted on in this plenary session. The final decision, of course, is yours, but in this respect there is a regulation that is mandatory. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u309	The submission of resources and, by analogy, complaints also triggers a period of interventions, up to 2 minutes, of parliamentary groups wishing to intervene in the debate on the complaint or appeal submitted. Mr Pinto Moreira, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u310	Thank you very much, Mr President. Our question is not of intention or bureaucratic, it is a clearly substantive issue and therefore we will make a request to Mr President. The PSD Parliamentary Group shall therefore be requested by the Bureau in accordance with Article 81. the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, the one-week postponement of the final final vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on draft laws of BE, PS, NAP and IL, concerning the death of assisted medicine, vulgar euthanasia. This request to the Bureau is based on the fact that this parliamentary group, following the formal notification, by protocol, of V.E.E. Dispatch No. 51 / XV, only after 18 hours on 7 December, has appealed for the failure to accept the draft resolution No. 311 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), by e-mail to the office of V. Exa, with knowledge of DAPLEN ( Division of Support for the Whole ), at 20 hours and 4 minutes of December 7, 2022, and only this morning, returned more than 36 hours since the appeal was brought to the attention of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, when Article 126 ( 3 ). the RAR determines that ‘the President of the Assembly of the Republic shall submit an appeal to the Parliamentary Committee for 48 hours. Do not keep on seeking. ” in a matter as important as this one, we find it fundamental and essential that the text on the death of assisted medicinal products should not be the subject of a final vote without having previously decided, on a final basis, that the question of the admissibility of the referendum initiative on this subject should be decided, preventing the legislative process from being consolidated without this question of the referendum being definitively resolved, even more so when the PSD last December 5 2022, that the referendum initiative should integrate the script of legislative votes today, in order to be voted in advance of the overall final vote of the text submitted by 1. the Commission. This is our request, Mr President. It's no dilatory maneuver,... [[No, no, no, ……]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u311	...we're just asking for a postponement for 8 days, just 8 days. We always held the vote at the same time.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u312	Mr...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u313	I will finish, Mr. President. It is, of course, that in the event of the admissibility of the draft resolution of the PSD on the euthanasia reference, its subsequent vote is hampered by unnecessary superfluous because, in the meantime, there has already been a comprehensive final vote of the proposals on euthanasia. So from a strictly formal point of view, there can only be a referendum if the same is presented, discussed and voted before...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u314	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u315	They had remembered sooner!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u316	... of the global final approval. Therefore, Mr President, it is a matter of common sense. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u317	We therefore have two different points, but first we have a question of form. I, of course, on an issue of education, do not interrupt people, but in my capacity as President of the Assembly of the Republic, when I understand that I should interrupt the speakers, I hope that the speakers will allow me to do so, which you have not done today, successively. The President of the Assembly of the Republic, in the light of the Rules of Procedure, is obliged to warn the speakers whenever they understand that they are moving away from the matter and making other interventions, in the interests of good conduct of the work. I therefore ask that, when I seek to interrupt a speaker, he may do so with the permission of that speaker, instead of continuing to speak in succession, preventing me from fulfilling my statutory duties. Clarified this issue in such a way, we have a request from the PSD, which I ask the PSD to deliver to the Bureau, so that it can be distributed by the parliamentary groups and Article 81 is fulfilled. the Rules of Procedure, and we have a complaint, submitted by the Arrival. By the order for which they were presented, we began with the complaint of the Arrival, which wants strict application of the provisions of Articles 96. o is 155. the Rules of Procedure, on votes. This strict application would contradict everything that is the practice of organizing the votes which Parliament has followed in several legislatures. I therefore believe that these ad hoc amendments cannot be made. If the Conference of Leaders understands that we must strictly follow all that the Rules of Procedure determine, then the Conference of Leaders will decide and we will proceed to implement this procedure. Moreover, as a procedure for amending the Rules of Procedure takes place, it is a good opportunity to clarify these points. I am opposed to this strictly ad hoc application, not for today's votes, but for a specific vote today. So I don't accept the complaint. It has the power to turn this claim into appeal: the complaint is addressed to me, I do not accept it; it is enough, if you wish, to appeal to the plenary. As for the application submitted by the PSD, it will be distributed and then voted by the plenary to comply with Article 81. the Rules of Procedure. When the requests are addressed to the Bureau, they are read — their reading may not exceed a certain time — and, after admission, they are immediately voted, without discussion. We will therefore vote on this request. I would like to ask you if you intend to turn your claim into an appeal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u318	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u319	All right. So you have 2 minutes to file the appeal. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u320	Mr President, the appeal is very simple and has to do with what you have said right now. We have two questions here. One of them can be seen as purely formal and, as Mr President said, of the conduct of the proceedings and of a practice of the Assembly of the Republic, which is that of the 18th hour, which is scheduled. But the question, Mr President, is that this is not an action in the strict sense, because the Rules of Procedure are very clear, when they say that, if there is opposition from a parliamentary group, there can be no vote. Therefore, we would be running a raid on the Rules of Procedure. It is not a question of being able to vote by majority, it is an objective scourge. The only reason why we refer to this is because we want to express our opposition to the fact that one point, which is more complex and has a number of other leads, is voted on today because it violates this Rules of Procedure. But that is a purely formal point, as you say. Now, there is a question that has to do with the external effectiveness of the deliberations we are taking today. It is that publication in the Diary or distribution in leaflets to parliamentary groups, as the Rules of Procedure state, is not a question of conduct of work, it is a matter of external effectiveness, which the Constitutional Court has repeatedly said is calling into question its own votes. Why? Because it calls into question the knowledge of the final text at the external level. This is not a question of conduct of work! That is why the Rules of Procedure oblige you to publish it in the Journal of the Assembly of the Republic, when the final text is made. And this was seriously raped. It is not about the conduct of the work, it is about external effectiveness. There will certainly be or may be appeals to the Constitutional Court because there is an objective violation of a rule of law. And I think that no one is interested, in a case like this, in which there are already the legal and political implications of adding another stone to the legal process, because it has not been published in the Diary when it should have been. It is an issue of external effectiveness! I think it is easy to see that what is at stake here is the publication in the Diárioda Assembly of the Republic or the distribution, on avulgesa leaves, to parliamentary groups, so that there is knowledge abroad of the final text. This has been objectively violated; it is not even a matter of appeal for the plenary; it is to give the information that there is an objective violation and, if there is an objective violation, if not at this stage, the Constitutional Court may pollute the entire process by merely a question of formality. And the postponement by two plenary sessions does not seem to cause any fundamental disturbance to the work of the Assembly of the Republic and to the consolidation due to the legislative process in such complex matters as this. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u321	Thank you very much, Mr. Presented that the appeal is, it opens a period of time, of 2 minutes for each parliamentary group that intends to speak. First of all, the Socialist Party is pronounced through Mr Pedro Delgado Alves. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u322	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I do not want to extend - as regards the identification of resources as possible dilated dossiers, or not, it is an appeal and it is a statutory right which assists all parliamentary groups, beginning with a word in Latin or, better, three: to come against fat proprioum, i.e. to come against facts. The parliamentary group that presented the resource now under discussion, presented it in relation to a project that consists of the script, and the script, I remember, has 20 more diplomas that we are going to vote for today. Therefore, for there to be a minimum of consistency in the request submitted by Mr Ventura we had to close the doors and vote everything for the week, since the script, if it went out at 18 hours and 23 minutes, went out at 18 hours and 23 minutes for absolutely all the initiatives contained in the script and not just for this one. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As Mr President has said very clearly — and that is why the 'coming against the facts itself' appears the second time in Mr Ventura's speech — this is the consolidated practice of several legislatures in the House with regard to stability and the moment the script is issued. We have numerous, tens or hundreds of situations in which, precisely, the fact that the script came out a few minutes later has never been prevented from voting. in this case, having been stabilized on Wednesday, it was necessary to arrive on Friday, at 1 minute of the vote, for the parliamentary group concerned to remember that only one of the diplomas, and not all 20 in the script, could eventually not be voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u323	It's our position! It has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u324	Therefore, on this point, it seems to me that it is not only against the fact that it ignores the other diplomas that would be voted on today, just as it is against the parliamentary practice of many years. On the issue of external effectiveness and publication in the Diário, first of all, Mr Deputies, it seems to me that it is also wrong: the publication is done precisely through the distribution of the script, because the script has a link to all the diplomas,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u325	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u326	... and, in the distribution on avulsive leaves, in such cases, on electronic sheets, all Members, since the script distribution, carry on the blue button—a hyperlink—and that allows them to open the diploma and verify it. It is that the purpose of publication in Diárioda Assembly of the Republic is not to give external effectiveness so that citizens are aware of the deliberation;... [[CH Member's Protests André Ventura.]] ... citizens know the deliberations when it is published at the end of the proceedings in Diário and then in the Diário da República, once enacted by Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic and referred to by Mr. Prime Minister. So there too, once again, is a vice which does not correspond, at least, to that which has been the parliamentary plage.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u327	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u328	Clearly, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to this moment, in the face of questions that could have been raised and raised again throughout this and the previous Parliament, throughout this week, over several months, what we have found is that, at the last possible moment, rather than doing what is done in a democracy, which is to vote against, when we disagree, when we agree, or abstain, when we ignore or are not yet certain, whether we try to find a way to prevent the House of Democracy from doing so, vote! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u329	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u330	To speak on behalf of the Left Block, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u331	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : On the two issues in question, I begin with the publicity of the acts, saying that it is merely factual, which makes the complaint of the Arrival irrelevant, all the publicity of the acts that this legislative process has had. For example, as regards the report of the working group, which includes the final text of the legislative initiatives under consideration, it is publicly available since last week — and it was up to the Commission to request the postponement for one week —...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u332	It's not the report, it's the text!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u333	... for public consultation, it was not changed until the vote in committee and it was touched on the vote in committee. As has been said earlier, it then goes directly to the vote script, which is advertised either on Parliament's website or in the disclosure to all Mrs. Members and all Members.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u334	Out of hours!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u335	So, as far as advertising is concerned...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u336	Out of hours!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u337	I can see that Mr Ventura has dropped the issue of advertising and now speaks in « out of hours». In fact, with regard to the publicity of acts, this process is untouchable, as you are already recognising.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u338	It's not, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u339	With regard to the time of distribution of the vote script—and here it is important to say that the time referred to by the Arrival is 18 hours and the script was distributed at 18 hours and 23 minutes, which is not a minor data—there is a reason for unequivocal attendance: it is that the plenary session was still held...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u340	So what? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u341	... and this gives parliamentary groups the right to, for example, present votes for inclusion in the vote script. That is why Parliamentary practice is that, whenever the Wednesday plenary session takes place beyond 6 p.m., the vote script is distributed next to the end of the plenary session. Why? Because otherwise it would have to be changed, it would have to be subject to an amendment to the vote script, in order to safeguard the exercise of rights, scheduled for by the parliamentary groups. For this reason, what we see here is not an obstacle to the Rules of Procedure, on the contrary, to the compliance of the Rules of Procedure, in the same practice as has never been put at issue in previous legislative sessions and even with diplomas related to the Rules of Procedure, so this appeal is merely a dilatory dossier. Mr Ventura said: this is so that the Constitutional Court does not raise any problems. No, Mr. André Ventura, we realize: this is for the Arrival to try to put problems where they do not exist! So we understand and expose the intention of arriving. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u342	Mrs. Members, the Bureau no longer registers any requests for intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u343	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u344	Mr Ventura asks for the floor, but, in the light of the Rules of Procedure, each parliamentary group can only use the word once. The honourable Member has already used the floor and we must therefore move forward.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u345	It is for an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u346	You have the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u347	Mr President, I would like to know whether it is possible to give us an explanation, since some of the issues raised by Mr Delgado Alves and the Chega are important that they have a legal response in this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u348	I do not believe, Mr, because the Rules of Procedure are clear. The honourable Member has made an appeal; the parliamentary groups have the right to intervene on the appeal, and those who have wished to do so have done so; now we have to move forward, because we have an order of business to carry out. We shall therefore proceed to the quorum and then begin the votes with the vote on this appeal and this request. I request the services to activate the electronic system of attendance registration. [[Pause.]] I wonder if any Member of Parliament or some Member of Parliament has not been able to register. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u349	If I may, Mr President, I cannot register.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u350	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. There has been quorum, with the presence of 210 Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let us vote on the appeal by the Arrival of my decision to keep the final text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in the vote script today. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L were rejected, votes against the CH and abstention from the PSD.]] Let us now vote on the request submitted by the PSD, which was recently read by Mr Pinto Moreira and which was, however, distributed through all the benches. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, IL, BE, PAN and L were rejected, votes against the PSD and abstentions against the CH and the CFP.]] Let us now begin our vote on the Rules of Procedure. We begin with the Vote Project No 191 / XV / 1. a ( presented by PS ) — I regret the death of Gil Teixeira Lopes, who will be read by Mrs Palmira Maciel. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u351	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He died last November 10, in Lisbon, at the age of 86, the painter and professor Gil Teixeira Lopes. Natural Mirandela, experienced the difficulties of the 1930s and 40s of the 20th century, marked by the impact of the civil conflict in Spain. He began his studies at Casa Pia de Lisboa, which continued at the Higher School of Fine Arts in Lisbon, having been a scholarship to the National Academy of Fine Arts and also a scholarship to the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation in Spain, France, Italy and England. He was a teacher at the Faculty of Fine Arts at the University of Lisbon between 1960 and 1995 and presided over his guidance and scientific advice. in this context of teaching, its role was decisive for the affirmation and consolidation in the pedagogical area of engraving, having retired as a professor. Gil Teixeira Lopes leaves a neofigurative and abstract work in painting, drawing, engraving and sculpture, also having, as an artistic brand, expressionism, which, as he himself stated, "gives us all the experience of his own life in himself", in addition to a remarkable and impressive brand in the Portuguese academy. He has produced numerous works and his works are exhibited in several collections around the world, since those that are patented at the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation in Lisbon, to those who are at the National Library of Paris, the Vatican Museum, the Museum of Modern Art, Rio de Janeiro, and in the United States of America, the Bronx Museum and the Library of Congress, in Washington. Artist consecrated, with more than three dozen awards and distinctions, of which the awards stand out at the Biennale of Florence in 1970 and 1972 ; in the Biennale of Krakow in 1971 ; in the Biennale of Seoul in 1972 ; in the Biennale of São Paulo in 1973 ; in the Biennale of Norway in 1972, 1984 and 1986 ; and in the Biennale of Mexico in 1980. In 1987, the President of the Republic, Mário Soares, decorated him with the order of the Order of the Infante D. Henrique, for his international merit, and in 2018 the President of the Republic, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, decorated him as commander of the Military Order of Sant 'Iago and Sword. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, pays tribute to the former professor and painter Gil Teixeira Lopes and to his role in the country's artistic and cultural life, and addresses his condolences to his relatives, colleagues and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u352	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the legislative part of the draft vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] I greet the family members of Gil Teixeira Lopes here present and convey the sentiments of the Assembly. Following the Vote Project No 205 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by the PSD ) — I regret the death of João Semedo Tavares, who will be read by Mrs Lina Lopes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u353	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is as follows: "John Semedo Tavares died last November 30 at the age of 50. Born in São Tomé and Príncipe, 1972, and created in the Cova da Moura neighborhood, João Semedo Tavares, best known by Johnson, made his life-long motivation to help and inspire hundreds of children and young people from the Town Hall of Amadora. Under the motto “We are what we do! he founded the Johnson Academy, an association that has accompanied hundreds of children and young people from economically more disadvantaged social backgrounds. This association, recently distinguished with an honorable mention at the Manuel António da Mota Prize, provides daily school support, organizes multiple extracurricular activities of sport, theatre, music and dance and promotes the reintegration of young former prisoners, working in the network and with community services. Through education and sport, the work of João Semedo Tavares has contributed to the empowerment of hundreds of children and young people and to the promotion of values of inclusion, citizenship and solidarity. His vision, in seeking to act on the side of risk prevention, has broadened the horizons of all those who have crossed with him and who have experienced and benefited from the work that his association has developed. João Semedo Tavares is an example of overcoming and dedication to the community, and his legacy will continue to impact hundreds of lives. To his family, friends and community of the Johnson Academy, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its heartfelt condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u354	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Following the Vote Project No 206 / XV / 1. a ( presented by the PSD ) — regretting the death of Alvarino Manuel de Meneses Pinheiro. With the agreement of the other seats, Mr. Paulo Moniz will read the vote of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u355	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He passed away last weekend, Alvarino Pinheiro, former member of the Azorian Parliament, former leader of the CDS-PP/Azores and a convinced autonomist. Alvarino Manuel de Meneses Pinheiro graduated in Economics from the Higher Institute of Economics of the Technical University of Lisbon, he was a professor in Angra do Heroísmo and an economic and financial consultant of several companies and entities. But it was noted for the performance of political functions of relevance, having been Member and Vice-President of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores in different legislatures, as well as President of the Azorian Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP. He was Director of the Regional Department for Studies and Planning of the Azores, Representative of the Region at the National Council of the Plan, President of the Municipal Assembly of the Praia da Vitória, Vice-President for the Municipal Chamber of the Praia da Vitória, and member of numerous parliamentary committees. Following an initial course in the PSD, he joined the CDS in 1992, having served as a regional and national function, including that of the President of the Commission Regional Directive of the CDS-PP / Azores, President of the Regional Political Commission, President of the Political Committee of the Third Island, Member of the National Executive Commission ; Member of the National Political Commission, National Counsellor and Vice-President of the National Congress of the CDS-PP. He was also a founder and member of numerous associations, newspapers, recreational and cultural entities. It is undoubtedly an unmistakable figure of the process of self-building and affirmation and of the Azorian policy. Possessing an unquestionable political touch and a hearty mood, as has been remembered by many, in recent days, it is also up to us to honour the memory of Alvarino Pinheiro, whose disappearance we greatly regret. To your family, friends and other acquaintances, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its heartfelt condolences. This vote must be heard from the family, the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, the Regional Government of the Azores, the Municipal Chamber and the Municipal Assembly of the Victorian Beach, the National CDS-PP Party and the CDS-PP/Azores. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u356	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, following the votes that we have just voted on, we will keep one minute of silence in honour of these three fellow citizens. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 312 / XV / 1. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to Romania. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on the Draft Deliberation No 9 / XV / 1. a ( PAR) — Establishment of a Possible Constitutional Review Commission. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote on draft resolution No 281 / XV / 1. a ( Committee on European Affairs) — Assessment of the Report on Portugal in the European Union, 2021. [[When put to the vote, the votes against the CH and the PCP and IL, the BE, the PAN and the L were voted in favour of the PS and the PS.]] We generally vote for Law No 40 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to review the legislation relating to the activity of collective investment agencies. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against the IL, the PCP, the BE, the NAP and the L, and abstentions against the PSD and the CH.]] This initiative is down to 5. the Commission. The general vote of Bill No 33 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (CH) — Determines the temporary exemption from the payment of IMI to the building of its own and permanent housing during the period of validity of the RPP. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the CH and abstentions from the PSD, the IL and the NAP.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 344 / XV / 1. a ( IL ) — Extends the exemption from municipal tax on Onerous Real Estate Transmissions ( IMT ) to all own and permanent housing acquisitions ( amendment to the Municipal Tax Code on Onerous Real Property Transmissions, as annexed to Decree-Law No 287 / 2003 of 12 November ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the CH, the IL and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We shall vote on a request by the NAP for discharge to the Committee on Budgets and Finance, without a 60-day vote of Bill No 365 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Extends the period of temporary exemption from IMI for the purchase of buildings for permanent housing from three to five years, amending the Statute for Tax Benefits. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 366 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Creates an extraordinary financial support line for housing holders. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, IL, the CFP and the BE were rejected, votes against the NAP and abstentions against the SDP, the CH and the L.]] We then generally vote for Bill No. 62 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Reduce to 35 hours the maximum working time limit for all workers ( 19 ). the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L were rejected.]] We generally vote for Bill No. 364 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — ensures more rest and leisure time by reducing the maximum limit of the normal working period and the right to 25 working days of holidays in the public and private sectors. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE, NAP and L and the abstention from the CH.]] We are going to vote, in general, on draft resolution No. 292 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends the progressive decrease in working hours, with the establishment of 35 hours per week, and the progressive increase in the holiday period, with the immediate institution of 25 days of vacation. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L were rejected.]] We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 284 / XV / 1. a (L) — For the condemnation of human rights violations in Qatar and in the World Cup organization 2022. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and CH were rejected, votes against IL, BE, PAN and L and abstentions from the PCP and 8 PS members (Alexandra Leitão, Carla Sousa, Eduardo Alves, Isabel Alves Moreira, Maria João Castro, Miguel dos Santos Rodrigues, Pedro Delgado Alves and Rui Lage).]] We will generally vote on the Resolution Project No. 297 / XV / 1. a (BE) — Non-representation of the Government and the Assembly of the Republic in the World Soccer of 2022 and condemnation of the numerous human rights violations in Qatar. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and CH were rejected, votes against IL, BE, PAN and L and abstentions from the PCP and 8 PS members (Alexandra Leitão, Carla Sousa, Eduardo Alves, Isabel Alves Moreira, Maria João Castro, Miguel dos Santos Rodrigues, Pedro Delgado Alves and Rui Lage).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u357	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u358	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u359	It is to inform the Bureau that I will present a written statement of vote on these two projects that we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u360	Mrs. Deputy, you're registered. The PS and the Arrival also indicated that they will present written explanations of vote on the two projects we have just voted on. Then we vote on draft resolution No 299 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government, within the international organizations of which it is a member and in particular the UN Human Rights Council, be in favour of a firm call for the Islamic Republic of Iran to stop using the death penalty as a tool to deter ongoing protests and ensure the immediate release of all demonstrators who have been arbitrarily detained following the death of Masha Amini. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CH, IL, BE, PAN and L and the abstention from the CFP.]] The CFP has indicated to me that it will present a written declaration of vote on the last vote. We will vote for draft resolution No 283 / XV / 1. a ( PS, PSD, CH, and IL ) - Creates the National Fish Conservation Day, on 15 November. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PS, CH and IL, votes against the NAP and abstentions from the CFP, BE and L.]] The CFP indicates to me that it will present a written declaration of vote. It is not yet this year that we celebrate the National Fish Conservation Day, so we can continue quietly in the votes. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 246 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends that the Government develop efforts to create the international humanitarian passport. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of IL, BE, PAN and L, votes against CH and abstentions from PS, PSD and PCP.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 275 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Recommends that the Government publish the Environmental Fund Activity, Management and Accounts Report on the performance of its activities in 2021. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We generally vote on the Resolution Project No 244 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government « ensure the right to forget », giving rise to the negotiation of the national agreement on access to credit and insurance contracts by persons who have overcome or mitigated aggravated health or disability risk situations in order to operationalize the right to forget as set out in Law No 75 / 2021 of 18 November. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CH, PCP, BE, PAN and L and the abstention from IL.]] This diploma goes down to 5. the Commission. We shall proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 273 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government promote the effective application of the « right to forget », in accordance with Law No 75 / 2021 of 18 November. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CH, PCP, BE, PAN and L and the abstention from IL.]] This diploma goes down to 5. the Commission. Mrs. Members, following the final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bills Nos 5 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Regulates the conditions under which assisted drug death is not punishable and amends the Penal Code, 74 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Regulates the conditions under which assisted drug death is not punishable, and amends the Penal Code, 83 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Regulates the conditions under which assisted drug death is not punishable and amends the Penal Code and 111 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Regulates the conditions under which assisted drug death is not punishable and amends the Penal Code. The Bureau is informed that the vote is made on a bench, except at the PSD bench. Let us then vote on the final text. [[Subject to vote, it was approved, subject to vote, subject to vote, and subject to vote, with vote in favour of the PS, IL, IL, IL, PAN, L and 6 PSD Members (Ado Silva, André Coelho Lima, Catarina Rocha Ferreira, Hugo Martins de Carvalho, Isabel Meireles and Sofia Matos), votes against CH, PCPP, L L, L and 6 PSD Members (Ado Adedo Silva, Andrés and 6 PSD (Ado Silva, Andrés Micheles de Carreira, Cata Silva, Catarina Roul Lo IL, Hugo L and Sofia, Andrés, IL, IL, L, L and Sofia, Andrés Romeostonestonestones, Joanstonestonestonestones, Marystonestonestonestones, Pedro, Pedro, Peter, Pedro, Pedro, Peter, Pedro, Peter, Peter, Peter, Peter, Peter, Peter, Peter, Peter, Peter, Peter, Peter, Peter, Peter, John, John John John John John John, John, John John and John John John John John John John John John John John John John John John John John David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David David;;;;; Arson, Arson, Arson, Arson; Arson; Arson; Arson Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron Aaron]] [[P.S., BE, and P.N. Applause.]] The gentlemen. PSD members Firmino Marques, Hugo Carneiro, Francisco Pimentel, Jorge Salgueiro Mendes and Ofélia Ramos informed the Bureau that they would present a vote on the last vote. I wonder if there's any more Mrs. Members who wish to make a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u361	Mr. President, I inform you that Mr. Mr Pedro Cegonho, Mr Joaquim Barreto and Mr Sobreinho Teixeira, of the PS, will present a joint statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u362	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u363	Mr President, I inform you that the BE Parliamentary Group intends to make an oral vote at the end of the votes. It will be Mrs Catarina Martins speaking.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u364	The PS has also just informed the Bureau that it will make an oral vote. Mr Agostinho Santa has just informed the Bureau that he will make a written statement of vote. Any more Members or Members?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u365	Mr President, I shall present a written statement of vote along with the honourable Members. Deputies Maria Emília Apolinário, Fernanda Velez, João Marques, Jorge Paulo Oliveira, Carlos Cação, António Prôa, Alexandre Simões and Patrícia Dantas.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u366	Mrs Fatima Ramos of the PSD is also asking for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u367	Mr President, I would like to inform you that I will make a written statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u368	Mr Alexandre Poço, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u369	For the same purpose, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u370	Mrs. Cristiana Ferreira, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u371	For the same purpose, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u372	Mrs Romualda Nunes Fernandes of the PS also reports that she wishes to make a statement of vote. Mr Rui Paulo Sousa, from arrive, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u373	Mr President, I inform you that you will make a statement of an oral vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u374	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u375	Mr President, I inform you that I intend to make a statement of an oral vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u376	Mrs Paula Santos from the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u377	Mr President, I should like to inform you that we also want to make an oral vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u378	Oral explanations of vote will be made at the end. We are now voting in a comprehensive final vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Budgets and Finance on the Proposal for a Law No 31 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Amends the Code of Special Consumption Taxes by transposing the Directives ( EU ) 2019 / 2235, 2020 / 262 and 2020 / 1151, and introduces several amendments to strengthen the control mechanisms applicable under these taxes. [[The vote was put to the vote in favour of the PS, the vote against the PAN and the abstentions from PSD, CH, IL, PCP, BE and L.]] We shall vote on the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the request for urgent procedure in the processing of Lein's proposals 7 / XV / 1. a ( ALRAM ) — For the guarantee of fair treatment to foreign citizens in Portugal without valid travel permit and 20 / XV / 1. a ( ALRAM ) — Regionalization of Registration and Notarial Services- Amendment of Decree-Law No 247 / 2003, of 8 October and of Law No 7 / 2007, of 5 February 2007. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CH, the BE, the PAN and the L, votes against the PSD and IL and the PCP.]] Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u379	Mr President, I would like to announce that on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group we will present a written statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u380	We shall vote on the opinion of the Committee on Education and Science on the request for urgent procedure in the course of the Proposal for a Law No 95 / XIV / 2. a ( ALRAM ) — By valuing the ultraperipheral condition of the athlete - Proceeds to 1. the amendment to Decree-Law No 55 / 2019 of 24 April. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Is Mrs Sara Madruga from the Coast asking for the floor again?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u381	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u382	Be registered. We shall now vote on the opinions of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members. I ask Secretary Palmira Maciel to read the first.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u383	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Public Prosecutor's Office, Procurator's Office of the Republic of the Comarca de Setúbal - DIAP - 3. the Section, Inquiry 535 / 22.4GESTB, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Nuno Carvalho ( PSD ) to testify, as a witness, within the scope of the reference cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u384	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] You can read the second opinion, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u385	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Public Prosecutor's Office, Procurator's Office of the Republic of the Comarca de Setúbal - DIAP - 3. the Section, Inquiry 271 / 22.1T9STB, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Fernando José ( PS ) to testify, as a witness, within the scope of the reference cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u386	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members follow the oral explanations of vote on the final text submitted by 1. the Commission, on the law of euthanasia, let us say this to be simpler. Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u387	Mr. President: John Semedo said that the decriminalization of assisted death was the victory of tolerance over prepotence, and he was quite right. This is the third time that Parliament approves, by a different but broad political majority, respect for each and every one until the end of their lives and the right not to be denied, to those who do not want terrible suffering or to those who do not want a vegetative state, assistance at that time. This is the third time Parliament has passed this law and, by means of it, the Constitutional Court has pronounced itself, and has clearly pronounced itself saying that the right to life is not the obligation to live in any way. This is a law respecting the Constitution and this text that we adopt today respects the Constitutional Court. Mr President of the Republic has also said that he has never put an institutional obstacle to the decriminalization of drug-assisted death; he has asked that the law be clearer from the point of view of terminology, and it is clear. So for the third time, Parliament approves this law of tolerance, of respect, and responds to any doubts from the Constitutional Court, responds to all appeals from the Presidency of the Republic and therefore there is no reason why Portugal cannot finally have this law. The country would not understand that there was now any serious reason why, after three parliamentary approvals by this large and different majority, the law could still be stopped. In the face of the stories, so many stories, of agonizing deaths by pain and disrespect for whom it has been forced to die in the past, in the face of the stories of women and men, so many stories of those who are faced with an end of life that know that it will be unacceptable to his eyes—and it is in his eyes that he is interested—in view of this immense demand for respect, this requirement of great prevalence of tolerance over prepotence, is time, more than time of Portugal taking this step. And this is the day. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u388	For the PCP's declaration of vote, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u389	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The opposition of the CFP to the initiatives on the legalization of euthanasia that have today been put to the global final vote is well known and was clearly expressed in the debates that were held here in the last legislatures. what we are talking about today is not to repeat these debates, as if the legislative process, which is now concluded, was a novelty. The text approved in this House, against which the CFP voted, was declared unconstitutional and what is here today is the vote of an adjustment to this text made by the proposers, in order to overcome the constitutional objections raised by the Constitutional Court. The CFP will maintain its sense of vote, but does not call into question the inalienable legitimacy of the Assembly of the Republic to decide on this matter. If the terms now proposed will be sufficient to resolve the problems of unconstitutionality raised by the Constitutional Court, we do not know. The PCP has never made its disagreement regarding the legalization of euthanasia in the controversial ground of its constitutionality. On this point, the Constitutional Court has been pronounced, and it may do so again, if the matter is raised by those in law. As we have already stated in this House, and today we reaffirm, the option of the CFP to vote against the legalization of euthanasia has not been taken lightly; it results in a profound reflection on a topic that, due to its complexity, the concerns that arise and the importance of the values that are at stake, dispenses any attitude of intellectual arrogance or any invocation of moral superiority. The CFP has always refused to view the debate on euthanasia as a war of religions against atheisms or the left against the right. What is at stake is a legislative option and not a judgment on individual consciences. What is decided is an option of the State rather than of individuals. What is decided is not about the individual option of each one as to the end of his life, but the attitude to be taken by the State in relation to the final phase of the life of his citizens. Individual autonomy is something that must be respected, but an organized society is not a mere sum of individual autonomys. The legislator cannot take a legislative option on the life and death of people without taking into account the circumstances and social consequences of this option. This is not a debate between those who value the dignity of human life and those who devalue it. The dignity of every human being in the face of the circumstances of his own death is something that no one is able to judge. The individual dignity is not discussed here, whoever it is. What is being discussed is whether a State that denies many citizens the means to live decently must offer them the legal means to anticipate death. The Portuguese State cannot continue to deny to most of its citizens the health care they need, particularly in times of greatest suffering. The creation of a network of palliative care with universal character must be an absolute priority. A country should not create legal instruments to help die when it does not guarantee material conditions to help live. Through good medical practices, which reject the use of therapeutic obstination and respect the autonomy of the individual will, expressed through the anticipated manifestations of will, which the law already allows,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u390	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u391	...the duty of the State is to ensure that death is always assisted, but not that it is anticipated. Finally, Mr President, thanking you for your tolerance, saying that, in a framework where the value of human life is often relativized according to criteria of social utility, economic interests and family responsibilities and charges or public expenditure, the legalization of euthanasia will add new risks that we cannot circumvent. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u392	For a statement of vote, Mr Ventura, from arrive, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u393	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I just wanted to make it clear that today is a sad day for our democracy. It is a sad day when, although hundreds of thousands do not have access to palliative care, this House, this House, with the legitimacy given to it by popular vote, opts for the legalization of death and not for the work for those who suffer the most. This was a process of runaways over an extended, bureaucratic period, not rarely fired from illegalities and unconstitutionalities, and which still today had a new focus on these regiment and legal abuses. A process done to the extent of the majority, a majority who, the day we are, perhaps no longer represents the Portuguese people in a reliable way, a majority who refused to listen to the Portuguese on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u394	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u395	This is the truth that will remain of this whole process: a country that wanted to be heard and a majority that did not want to hear a country, afraid of losing the referendum.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u396	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u397	There is no doubt, Mr President, that, as far as the legislative process is concerned today, it is so clear that it has failed in its democracy that the major parties that approve it have not put it in their electoral programmes. I am referring to what has always been said about this process: this House has no legitimacy to vote on a matter so sensitive, so delimited and so conscious that it should be the Portuguese, the ones who have chosen us, to be called upon to pronounce on it. So we insisted again that a referendum was not just a requirement, it was imperative to hear the Portuguese. And it became clear in this process that the left is afraid to hear the Portuguese. We understand the reason well: those who know the Portuguese people know that they would never deal with the law that is being approved and put into effect today. Mr President, I am not going to lengthen my appeal to the President of the Republic to exercise the power he has, political and constitutional, to put an end to this Portuguese legislative shame, but I am going to mention to myself what an old PSD leader has said, who today has called for an unequivocal and serious commitment, assumed by all the parties on the right, that, once again having a majority in this House, the first thing we will do is reverse this law.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u398	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u399	Pedro Passos Coelho asked everyone, and all those who consider themselves to be opposition to the socialist majority, who assume this serious commitment. Pedro Passos Coelho is not a militant of the Arrival or its president, but he wanted to say here, clearly, that he takes on and accepts this challenge. Others thus accept the same challenge. Mr President, there remains a solemn commitment, before this country and before the Portuguese people, that the first thing we will do, in this House, with a majority,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u400	You'll never have a majority!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u401	...is to reverse the infamous law of euthanasia. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u402	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, from the NAP, also signed up for a statement of vote, so if there is no objection on the part of any parliamentary group, I will give her the floor for one minute. [[Pause.]] No objection, please, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u403	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The NAP cannot fail to congratulate itself on the day we are marking today. We are in the field of personal self-determination, of the greatest sensitivity and dignity of the human person. We should not only have a word to say about how we live, but also about how we die. And whoever is facing a situation of serious and irrecoverable disease should have the right to be able to use assisted drug death, which should not be confused with palliative care. All people, without exception, should be guaranteed the right to palliative care, but the death of assisted medicine is not that and therefore confuse the debate and confuse those who listen to us at home with this issue is not to make a serious debate here. In addition, it should also be noted that this was a strongly involved debate. We are talking about a legislative process that went through three legislatures, in which we heard different experts, which would not happen, for example, in a referendum. And, whether you want to not, we are now telling people that, when their lives are interrupted by the tragedy of no longer being able to live in full form, they have the right to help themselves in this same process. The NAP therefore congratulates the effort that has been made between the different political forces so that, in fact, once and for all, people who are in deep suffering, by virtue of a serious and irrecoverable disease,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u404	He didn't even appear in the working group!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u405	... can help this mechanism on an equal footing and do not have to go to another country. [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u406	Mr Rui Tavares also asked for the floor for a vote, so you have the floor for one minute.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u407	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u408	Yes, please, Mr. André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u409	Mr President, I am sorry, I do not want to put the House on these things, but it is clear that only the parliamentary groups can make oral statements. I, as the sole Member, was never allowed to make an oral vote,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u410	... although not with Mr. President, but with his predecessor. There was an exception for Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, who seems evident, who was to be proposing one of the projects in question. Therefore, this exception is assured, as a proposer. Mr Rui Tavares is not proposing any of these legislative initiatives, so to do this is to make a draft of Article 155. the Rules of Procedure. I know we've already done several articles board today, but if it's to make everyone, we can also end it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u411	Mr President, your point of view is presented and the question is very simple: the possibility of Mr Rui Tavares speaking or is not even in the hands of you, because my criterion is always the same, i.e. if no parliamentary group opposes, I give the floor. I interpret your intervention as opposition and therefore I cannot give the floor to Mr Rui Tavares. Several Mrs have signed up. Members to speak to the Bureau on the conduct of the work and, to this end, has the floor, firstly, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u412	Mr President, I just wanted to make one point clear because the possibility of the only Members to make oral statements has been raised several times and I remember that Article 77 (1) ( l ). the Rules of Procedure clearly set out what are the rights of all Members, and not only the parliamentary groups, who have the right to produce explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u413	Written! Written!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u414	One thing is there is a divergence with what the Rules of Procedure provide, until the Rules of Procedure have been updated through successive legislatures, in full, in what are the rights of the single Members, elected by a political force, but by no means this House...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u415	When it was us, it was very unyielding!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u416	I apologize to Mr. André Ventura, but I listened carefully to him and did not interrupt him... [[CH Member's Protests André Ventura.]] Mr. André Ventura may not agree with me, but you have a duty to listen to me.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u417	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, allow me this advice: since you are discussing the Bureau and the Bureau I am — it is my time Louis XIV — talk to me, ignore others, do your point and allow us to finish the work. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u418	Mr President, I would like to speak to Mr President, but for that reason it is appropriate for Mr Ventura to let me hear myself and conclude my reasoning. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u419	Therefore, what I would like to make clear is that, regardless of what we have been undergoing a review of the regulations, where I believe that all these issues can be clarified, there are rights of all Members, without exception, who should not be systematically run over in this House. The NAP has defended this in past legislative sessions, including for other political forces, and will continue to defend it for its interventions. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u420	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u421	If it is for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings, please, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u422	Thank you very much, Mr President. It should be clarified — since this is the objection put forward that would imply a difference of treatment between the two single Members representatives of the Party — that the reason for the Book not to be proposing in this legislative process is because the same process already comes from behind and we would not add... [[CH protests.]] If you will allow me, I am addressing Mr President. As I said, the legislative process was already behind us and we would not introduce redundancy or confusion in this legislative process, also clarifying that, contrary to what has been said here, the Free is a party whose programme contained this point. And if the key word of this debate is respect — respect for individual conscience, respect for the situation of people, respect for the House itself — there must also be respect for the thousands of people who voted in the Book, who voted in a programme which included this point and who will not have the right to be represented in an oral vote, because of the objection of a party who, by the way, had no argument.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u423	Read the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u424	The right of all Members to submit explanations of vote is not at stake; however, the Rules of Procedure reserve oral explanations of vote to representatives of parliamentary groups. I shall now give the floor to the last Member registered in this period of voting statements by the parliamentary groups, Mrs Isabel Moreira of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u425	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This has always been a law of choice of criminal policy and fundamental rights and not a matter of conscience, and politicians assume themselves. This has always been the law of Luís Marques and of those who cannot manifest themselves. We are faced with a diploma on a subject which has impressed on us this certainty, said by the Constitutional Court: 'The right to life cannot be transformed into a duty to live in any circumstance'. With regard to the ruling of the Court, we delineated concepts, formally made a new diploma. We hardly find, in terms of comparative or national law, more denser concepts than these or more defensive laws. We believe that insisting on the unconstitutionality of this law would lead to the need for unconstitutional, for the vast majority of reasons, many standards currently in force. Coherence is a fundamental value that must prevail in all sovereign bodies. For three times, the House has passed by clear majority a law which, in short, recognizes that, in strictly defined cases, it is justified to accept the will of anticipation of the death of those who experience a difficult end of life to adjective. We cannot ignore the gigantic legitimacy of a law that the people insist on saying they want to be approved. Terminological variability is exceeded and is based on the law, which the Assembly of the Republic believes should be governed by the law. In none of the countries that legalize assisted suicide—and sometimes by the imposition of their constitutional courts—assisted drug death is limited to cases where the person is in imminent death. That has already been unconstitutional for violating the principle of equality. This is, and has always been, the law of Luís Marques. Louis Marques, who was 63 years old, was paraplegic 55 years ago and traveled more than 2000 km to realize an assisted death, denied in Portugal. This has always been the law of the immense forced silence of the people who write to us and call upon us to choose, but without force to make a demonstration. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u426	This law, in the words of John Semedo, would have been approved long ago, if the dead could speak. This is the law of the struggle of so many and so many, such as Laura Ferreira dos Santos, who demanded that they not let her die a bit. This is the law of Ricardo's father, who wrote to us and says that the state has noticed, about the agonizing death of the father—and well—for more than 100 years, that he could not impose death, but still does not realize that he wants to impose life is equally unacceptable. This is also the law that, taking a decision on humanist criminal policy, materializes the above mentioned by Mr. André Coelho Lima, love of the neighbor, in the true sense of imperative: to love the neighbor as this wants to be loved and not as we want to love him! It is, in fact, the law that protects the decisions of all convictions: equal dignity, respect always, autonomy of each person, which is always unique and unrepeatable. This was always the law of Louis Marques and is the law required by Joana Silva and John Cainé, who in his words wants "a last act of freedom". [[PS, IL, BE, PAN and L applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-09.u427	So we have come to the end of our work today. The next plenary session will be on Tuesday 13 at 3 p.m., and the agenda will be the preparatory debate of the European Council, with the participation of the Prime Minister, [ under Article 4(1) ( a ). the Law of Monitoring and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the process of building the European Union ]. Very good weekend to all. The session is closed. [[It was 14 hours and 20 minutes.]]
