ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 5 minutes.]] We already have quorum, all parliamentary groups are represented. I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the galleries to the public. Before we begin the agenda, I will give the floor to Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha for reading some file.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, several legislative initiatives. First of all, I refer to Bill Nos 325 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission, 330 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission, and 332 / XV / 1. a ( PS ), which drops to 1. the Commission. Resolution Nos 251 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission, and 255 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 11. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u3	We are then on our agenda, the first of which is the assessment of the Bill No 31 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Amends the Code of Special Consumption Taxes by transposing the Directives ( EU ) 2019 / 2235, 2020 / 262 and 2020 / 1151, and introduces several amendments to strengthen the control mechanisms applicable under these taxes. To present the bill, I give the floor to Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposal for a law which the Government brings today to the Assembly of the Republic is intended to transpose three directives relating to excise duties ( IEC ) which, as we know, are taxes which have a European harmonisation and, as such, similar rules should be adopted from the point of view of the Member States. First of all, in the context of the transposition of these directives, we speed up the rules on the movement of products under suspension, clarifying when the products are subject to IEC and introducing a set of provisions on the electronic traffic control system. The CSI reimbursement procedure is also updated and the electronic declaration system is extended. In the field of transposition of other directives, uniform taxation of beer is ensured, in particular by establishing conditions for measuring the level of Plato, with a view to reducing administrative costs and procedures to small producers or family producers. The exemption scheme is extended for small producers and small distillers, clarifying also the situations in which they are intended for their own consumption. Finally, there is also the transposition of a third directive, which concerns the exemption of IECs relating to the supply of goods to the masses and canteens of the Armed Forces. in another area, the proposed law also takes advantage of introducing a set of anti-fraud rules which essentially translate into situations where those who have products in tax suspension must provide assurance and in which terms their suitability is measured. Finally, a change is made to the contribution of road service, in order to be expressed as being incorporated into the ISP (tax on oil and energy products) and is therefore absolutely neutral from the point of view of the consumer price. This same contribution of road service becomes the provision of road service affects the infrastructures of Portugal ( IP ). [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u5	For a request for clarification, I give the floor to Mrs Carla Castro of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, I would like to confirm, in a first note, that we are once again before directives that have come in late. The deadline for transposition was December 31, 2021, we are obviously in September 2022, this when we were again warned about the delay in July. We are always at risk of condemnation, being warned, with the possibility of fines, etc. We could think that the transposition of the directive comes late, but that it comes robust, but once again comes without studies and without opinions, something that was even noticed by the services. In addition to this question of how, in relation to the contribution of road service, we would like to point out that the Court of Justice of the European Union needed to declare the illegality of this contribution, in order to be effectively treated once and for all. Mr. Secretary of State, I would like to know what you have to say about this condemnation. I would also like to ask how you see the risk of compensating companies, if they claim the wrongful income of the illegal contribution, since we are talking about more than EUR 2000 million. It would also be interesting to see if there is indeed an intention not to increase the ISP due to this change. I know that we are facing the transposition of a directive which, as such, is harmonised and marked, but we remember that this is a government of record of tax burden and effort. We have a country that has more than 4000 fees and contributions, some constitutional wounds and, therefore, in specialized work, we will be particularly attentive, despite this harmonisation, to the fiscal voracity that we have already been accustomed to. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u7	To clarify greed, I give the floor to Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u8	Mr President, Mrs Carla Castro, I would like to begin by thanking you for your clarification requests. With regard to the delay in the transposition of the directive, the honourable Member cannot ignore that, in October 2021, the State budget was rejected. As a result, the Assembly of the Republic was dissolved, there were legislative elections and then we had several months for the new government to take possession. There was, then, a new State Budget and now here we are. Madam Member, I would very much like to have tabled this bill earlier, but, and I am sorry, it was not possible, because the opposition led a State budget and created a disruption in the country. Here is a practical example of this consequence. [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u9	Secondly, you are concerned about the contribution of road services. I am sure that the honourable Member will accompany me in my assessment that there is no doubt that no gas station has affected any final consumer the contribution of road service. Therefore, it is not because of any gas station that requires the State to return a value which has had a full impact on each consumer. I think that you will agree with me on this point and, to this extent, you will agree that the Government has already said what it has to say on this matter. This amendment, which is made with regard to the provision of road services to a part of the ISP, is exactly a provision, having no effect on the increase of the final selling price to the public, being only a neutral exercise.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u10	That's where this came from!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u11	Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to follow up on the proposals that the Liberal Initiative will present and I am convinced that, after seeing the result of a tax shock in the United Kingdom, they will be able to reflect on what fiscal policy should be. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u12	Don't worry about the UK, worry about Portugal!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u13	For an intervention, Mr Rui Afonso, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Proposal for a Law No 31 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) aims to introduce cross-cutting changes to the Code of Special Consumption Taxes on harmonisation at European Union level. At the same time, it recommends updating the tariff codes provided for in the Code of Special Consumption Taxes, strengthening anti-fraud control measures and allocating part of the revenue collected in continental territory for the benefit of the national road service, and our intervention will fall to these last two points. in a worrying macroeconomic scenario, with the dramatic deterioration of energy costs, with the shock of inflation in production and economic activity and with the sharp slowing of GDP growth (gross domestic product) planned for 2023, never before the fight against fraud, elizion and tax evasion were so important.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u16	The IMF ( International Monetary Fund ) estimates that the parallel economy in Portugal is close to EUR 50 billion, corresponding to 25 % of GDP. in a report published by the Tax Justice Network, Portugal is given an annual cost with tax evasion to around EUR 1000 million, but there is still another value that can be mentioned in these tax leaks. According to a recent study published by the European Commission, Portugal lost EUR 1, EUR 6 billion in VAT avoidance ( value added tax ), i.e. in the difference between the value of VAT that the State should receive and the value charged, the so-called VAT gap.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u17	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u18	Having said that, it is clear that tax fraud and evasion have a significant financial impact on our country, so it is important to take the measures necessary to combat and prevent it. However, we cannot forget its main cause: the brutal tax burden on Portuguese families and companies. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The tax burden in 2021 was the highest ever, representing 35, 8 % of gross domestic product, which is representative of a true tax burden. In short, in addition to strengthening measures, it is imperative to have an effective tax breakdown. It does not seem fair to us that we have a State to enrich with this inflationist spiral by bringing up, until July this year, more than 28 billion euros in tax revenue at the cost of sacrificing families and businesses, which see the cost of the food cabal to increase by more than 12 % and the cost of energy and fuel to increase by more than 30 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u20	We have a state that earns billions of euros with this inflation and the only answer you have to give to businesses is: « Divide! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Families provide timely support that, in practice, little or nothing will help to combat the brutal increase in the cost of living and the provision of housing credit. This is where we move to the second point of our intervention: the allocation of part of the revenue collected in continental territory for the benefit of the national road service. This revenue corresponds to part of the tax on oil and energy products charged on petrol, road gas and GPL ( liquefied oil gas), and is intended to finance the national road network, which is under the responsibility of the infrastructures of Portugal. However, considering the escalation of fuel costs, as well as the brutal shock of inflation in productivity and economic activity, this revenue provision should be returned to taxpayers, with a view to reducing the price of fuels, which are a structural product of our economy and which, for many people, is essential for their daily travel, given that the national public transport network is still very widespread in most of the national territory. In addition, we consider that the objective of the overrun funding in the provision of revenue, i.e. to subsidize the national road network, is already guaranteed by the single motor traffic tax ( IUC ), and therefore we do not see the need for it to be applied immediately. We consider it essential that any revenue provision be directed towards the tax relief of families and businesses, not for the maintenance of the country's infrastructure. For us, people will always be more important than roads. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u21	Mr Rui Tavares, of the Free, asked for the floor for an intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Secretary of State : The reason for my interest in intervention has to do with the provision.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u23	Don't interfere!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u24	This is a principle that existed in the Portuguese tax law of the Old Regime. It was created in times a literary grant that basically taxed alcohol and tobacco and paid with it the reform of secondary studies in our country, but in general it is said that the provision is not allowed by law. I should like to draw attention to the fact that they have decided to assign part of this tax to a specific use. This still exists in some countries, even in official Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u25	Does it exist? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u26	For example, the University of São Paulo is financed by a third of the freight tax in the state of São Paulo. I would like to know a little more about the Government's reflection on tax allocation, including for such uses, because economic activity can finance, for example, a part of higher education and thus revert to a greater qualification of our economic activity. So if you could, I would like you to deepen your Government's reflection on this subject a little bit.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u27	Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : We start with a previous point, the weight of indirect taxes in Portugal, especially VAT, but also of these taxes on consumption, has grown increasingly, gaining weight in relation to taxes affecting income and wealth. The problem with this option of tax policy is that taxes on consumption, whether VAT, whether ISP, or the majority of IECs, are blind to income and therefore they are, above all, borne by the poorest, whose low incomes are almost entirely towards consumption. It is therefore false rhetoric, which in these days has been heard, which says that the poorest do not pay taxes. They pay, because all their income goes to consumption, with effective rates higher than those of the large economic groups, which have mechanisms to escape their tax responsibilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u29	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u30	This government initiative does not alter this path of successive increase in the weight of these taxes. It makes adjustments to comply with certain directives, to define what is considered to be consumption, to avoid fraud, to extend certain exemptions, which we accompany, in particular, small wine and beer producers or home productions of alcoholic beverages for own consumption, but does not significantly alter the essential, which is the brutal weight of indirect taxes, which harm those who have less income. We insist: it makes no sense that the ISP — a tax which weighs so much on the price of fuels and which is part of this Code — is subject to 23 % VAT. It is a tax that pays tax, it is a double tax which, being always questionable, becomes even more serious in the ISP, due to the very particular weight it has in the price structure of fuels. Let us not be mistaken, tax breakdown does not solve the problem of fuel prices without public intervention on the speculative margins of large oil.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u31	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u32	We insist on the end of double taxation as a fair measure, which does not appear here. This bill has another obvious and already mentioned purpose, which is to solve the problem that has been created with regard to the contribution of road service. It is recalled that the CFP was directly opposed to the creation of this contribution, 15 years ago, within the framework of the financing model of the, then, Estradas de Portugal, not only because of having opposed the principle of non-registration of tax revenue, but also because of its instrumental nature in delivering the management of the national road network to the private interests of the economic groups, with particular emphasis on the familiar PPPs (public-private partnerships ). However, we do not ignore, contrary to previous interventions, the oil opportunism operation that challenged the CSR (road service contribution) in the Court of Justice of the European Union, with the declared aim of undermining those billions of euro of accumulated payments. As if it were possible to believe that those 8, 7 cents per litre were not having an impact on the consumer’s bill of lading — ask people who supply fuel stations if it affects or does not! But it is necessary to legislate, in an interpretative sense, so that they in Luxembourg understand that it is so. We passed from contribution of road service to the provision of road service. The fundamental problem remains. What is enshrined in the Constitution is the subordination of economic power to democratic political power, and that is not what happens, even at national level, much less in the European Union. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u33	For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : For the NAP, this amendment to the Code of Special Consumption Taxes does not cease to have positive aspects, such as the strengthening of anti-fraud mechanisms in the tax suspension regime. However, there are some aspects that do not reflect the necessary reflection — passing redundancy — about the problems associated with the Code and the challenges of our times, of course, with regard to fossil fuels. This is because it does not make a path that anticipates, for example, the taxation of oil and energy products well before 2025. On the other hand, what we think of the government's action is that the tax on petroleum products will be used to finance the national road service, i.e. more roads. There is also no way here to reverse this perverseness of continuing to give tax buds to the oil industry, to energy production, rather than to relieve families and small and medium-sized enterprises. The regulation of the maximum ceiling for oil products has not happened either, which has already been not only a claim, as it could already have happened under the legislative authorization given to the Government since last year. On the other hand, we continue to leave essential products and goods untouchable, such as bread, vegetables, fruit or veterinary services, which is completely incomprehensible at this time to relieve families.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u35	For an intervention, Mr Sérgio Ávila of the PS now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u36	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: Today's diploma is essentially aimed at achieving five objectives. First, it aims to standardise the broad suspensive regime of the EITs, ensuring more agility, clarification, updating of reimbursement systems and the extension of electronic procedures in this area. Secondly, it aims to strengthen support for the Armed Forces by exempting such taxation and, thirdly, by strengthening support for traditional productions, by exempting domestic production not produced for commercial purposes and at the same time extending the exemption for small producers. This proposal essentially aims to strengthen the conditions for anti-fraud control, in particular in the event of failure to comply with the suspensive regime. It allows it not to continue in the suspensive system of tax which enters into breach, obliging its payment, thus creating reinforcements of market control and competition mechanisms, as well as strengthening mechanisms for identifying and guaranteeing the suitability of administrators and management partners. But the question here has been more debated has to do with the appointment of a component of the ISP, with the objective of investing in the national road service. The provision of a revenue with a concrete objective is undoubtedly a strengthening of the transparency and justice of the application of that resource.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u37	Oh, yeah?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u38	There is thus a strengthening of transparency, because taxpayers know that their contribution has a clear destiny, that, in the context of discussion of the State budget, it is one of the main concerns of all political parties, i.e. investment in the infrastructures of the national road service.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u39	What about the Budget Framework Act? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u40	Secondly, there is no component of tax aggravating. In fact, the Socialist Party's heritage in this matter is very clear: in terms of ISP, the tax burden has reduced 28 cents in gasoline and 32 cents in gasoline since the beginning of this inflationist crisis. In all tax revenues, the Government has ensured the full return of all the increase in tax revenue from inflation that was not provided for in the Budget, amounting to 2400 million. This was fully returned to Portuguese families. in this context, the combination of these initiatives aims to standardise procedures at European level, streamline and clarify legislative interpretations and extend, expand exemption schemes for small producers. It aims, above all, to simplify procedures by speeding up reimbursements. from a fiscal point of view, it is neutral, but it ensures greater clarity, transparency so that Portuguese people know of the combination of two essential aspects: on the one hand, within the framework of the ISP, this contribution serves to improve and strengthen the national road service in a clear, transparent and quantitative manner, and on the other hand, contrary to what has been indicated by some people, effectively this government has ensured a very significant reduction in the tax burden on fuels — 28 cents on petrol and 32 cents on petrol — as an additional contribution to minimizing the effects of inflation. This is the reality that is also reflected in this diploma, as well as ensuring the continuity of this path to strengthening transparency, clarity and, essentially, support for families and businesses, to combat and mitigate the effects of this inflation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u41	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr João Barbosa de Melo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : These taxes that bring us here affect the consumption of goods which the legislator believes must be the target of increased taxation, in view of what would result from VAT. And therefore the State, through them, disincentives some consumption, for environmental or public health reasons. This is the case with alcohol, tobacco and oil and energy products.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u43	With extraordinary success!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u44	Despite this very logic, what is true is that these taxes, like all others, reduce the income of families and increase the revenues of the State. By definition, no family likes to pay taxes and would hardly pay them if they were optional — that is why they are called 'taxes'. Tax unpopularity makes it easy, therefore, to make populist speeches, in which we only look at the simplest and forget the least immediately, but which deserves weighting. In fidelity to its social-democrat matrix, the PSD is neither against taxes nor makes populist speeches on serious issues such as taxation. The PSD recognizes that taxes are essential to enable a strong social state, which has the capacity to promote equal opportunities, to protect the most disadvantaged, to provide goods and services in the field of health and others, which are fundamental to our well-being. What the PSD is, and will always be, is very demanding, both with the taxes and with the spending of the state that these taxes allow. For the PSD, this effort that Portuguese families make when they pay taxes must be scrupulously respected by the public authorities — and now the expenditure must also be seen with all due care. This requirement separates us from what has been the practice of the governments of the Socialist Party. As any specialist knows, both the charging machine and the spending machine have a lot of inertia and both are very difficult to lock. It is as if they formed a large train, in which the expenditure increases taxes and the growth of taxes is driven by expenditure. Only a strong government, which speaks true, may have veheties to control this budget train without falling into the temptation of, at each difficulty, charging another tax, a tax or rounding up a revenue instead of controlling expenditure. In times of difficulty, this budget train has even a tendency to accelerate and, if there is no care, it can become an unstoppable tax train (high speed train) that takes everything forward.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u45	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u46	The PS tax history obliges this House to carefully analyze everything that appears here on taxes. The reading of the document, for example, shows that the Government uses this diploma to resolve that illegality — already noted by others — that the Court of Justice of the European Union and the arbitral tribunal have recently pointed to this road contribution. In fact, it must be remembered that it was a tax created in José Socrates's time to try to 'disburse' the expenditure of the Estradas de Portugal to, in essence, hide it from the deficit. As is expected from a tax-addicted government, like the current government, the solution of this diploma is not simply to end with the contribution. No, it is only to open the way for the tax on petroleum products to rise so as to compensate for the road contribution that goes out. On page 4 it is assured that this will not involve any worsening, and the Secretary of State has already done the same, ensuring that — that is the word there — “neutrality”. The problem is that when we hear the word of neutrality coming from a government like the current one, we all tremble and tremble, above all, the taxpayer. It is that the Socialist Government has also guaranteed many other neutralitys. The New Bank was going to be neutral for taxpayers, but the Court of Auditors is already talking about 8 billion of the taxpayers' purse! It was going to be neutral aid to TAP, but it's already passed from 3,000 million and it's not even known why it's going to be sold. Not to mention, the topic of the last few days, the neutrality of the passage of part of pensions from 2023 to 2022, which will ultimately represent a definitive cut of 1000 million in future pensions! [[PSD applause.]] With a history of these, how can the Portuguese believe in neutrality? Will not the sum of the ISP with the road contribution eventually rise in 2023 rather than download as it should? There by the end of October here we are to know that! from a technical point of view, the diploma can certainly be improved, and the PSD is available to do them as a specialist. With this government, however, the taxpayer has only reason to be concerned. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u47	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by agreeing with the statements made here by the PSD Member. It is true that everything he said about the Socialist Party's record of credibility, particularly in tax matters, and not only. We all account for promises not fulfilled on pensions and statements and intentions that we know will not be carried out on pensions as well. However, as I already have some years of the Assembly of the Republic, I am obliged to remember the year 2015, in which Maria Luís Albuquerque promised that the New Bank would cost zero cents to the taxpayers. This story is long and, before the PS promise that the New Bank would not cost taxpayers anything, there was a promise from the PSD, which was also followed by a promise of return of overtax after the increased taxes made on citizens, consumers and taxpayers in Portugal. It is only important to remember this and always have the whole framework, so that we can analyze what happens today in the light of what has happened in the past. Mrs. Members, regardless of what we think about indirect taxes, double taxation of petroleum products, the provision of extraordinary and special contributions, regardless of what we think about each of these aspects, this bill has a very clear purpose: to prevent oil producers from claiming a tax for themselves that has been charged to taxpayers. But I remember, moreover, that such a provision already existed in the past, this recipe has always been assigned to, then, Estradas de Portugal. Mr. PS, who thinks that the provision brings a lot of transparency and benefits to the tax system, I remember that there is a reason for the appropriations to be badly viewed by the Constitution and the Budget Framework Act: the user-payer principle is closer than the Liberal Initiative thinks about the tax system than what the Constitution and its founders thought about the tax system. The provision, therefore, is always an exception and can never be the rule or guarantee of transparency, because that would be to say that the other taxes, which are used to finance the State budget, health, education and justice, are not transparent or useful. Mrs. Members, it would be the biggest step forward of always having large energy and oil production and distribution companies that charged gas and gas oil a fee imposed by the State to now want to claim to the State the return to itself of what has been paid by the taxpayers. Now, that is that we cannot tolerate and that must be prevented at all costs. In view of the fact that the European Union and the energy ministers at European level have just agreed on a tax on the extraordinary profits of energy, including these oil companies who want to charge the State with the money they have charged the taxpayers — the seriousness and the real motives of these companies are already seen! — I ask the Secretary of State whether this time the Government will accept to impose a tax on the extraordinary profits of Galp and other energy companies in Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u49	We therefore close the period of intervention. To conclude the debate, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mrs Mariana Mortágua, Portugal has actively supported and participated in the work to create a solidarity contribution, which, once approved, will naturally be implemented in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u51	Hallelujah!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u52	Mr Rui Tavares has raised an interesting question that has to do with the appropriations and the general idea of appropriations, and we have even had a little debate on this matter. Although sometimes theory seems to make sense, then practice shows something else.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u53	In practice, theory is different!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u54	There are three taxes which, in recent years, have been subject to registration: the first was AIMI (additional to municipal property tax) — Mrs Mariana Mortágua does not have the user-payer principle here, even has the effect of the income of AIMI to the Fund for Financial Stabilisation of Social Security ; the second was the IRC (tax on the income of the public), and two percentage points of the IRC revenue have been allocated to the sustainability of social security ; the third was the additional solidarity on the bank, which was created at the time of the pandemic and was also assigned to the Fund for Financial Stabilisation of Social Security. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] Madam Member, the user-payer principle is not always fully used in the tax statements we make. This provision of road service is important so that people, Mr. Rui Afonso, can walk safely on the roads.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u55	National roads are a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u56	That is why this is a recipe that has been affected to that end, and we want it to continue to be. Mr Barbosa de Melo, there was a misunderstanding in his speech and let me correct it. The Court of Auditors successively warned governments of its party that they were not registering the contribution of the road service to the ISP's revenue, and it was exactly the PS government that began to account for the contribution of the road service as a revenue of the ISP. As a result of this budgetary transparency, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Members of the PSD bench had been failing for years on account of the increase in ISP's revenue, who said that it was imputable to tax increases, but that it was only imputable to budgetary transparency, something which Mr, from the top of the rostrum, came to zurzir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u57	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u58	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is not worth wanting to scare the Portuguese: the contribution of road service, integrated into the ISP, will have a neutral effect on the payment made at the end by the consumer. But there's a virtue and there's something we'll never give up.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u59	Tolls! They'll never abdicate the tolls!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u60	We will never, by any means, allow any gas station to dare to claim what it took for consumers.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u61	That's all I needed!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u62	This is absolutely unacceptable and I am convinced that all legislative interventions necessary for this purpose will receive the unanimous support of Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u63	So we conclude the first item on the agenda, so we move on to the second item, which consists in the general assessment of the Proposal for a Law No 29 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Completes the transposition of Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 541, amending in particular Law No 52 / 2003 of 22 August ( Counter-Terrorism Act ). To present the bill, you have the floor to Ms. Minister of Justice, Catarina Sarmento and Castro.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the distant year 2002, with Framework Decision No 2002 / 474 / JHA, the European Union sought to approximate the definition of terrorist offences as well as offences relating to terrorist groups with a view also to establishing rules of jurisdiction to ensure that the terrorist phenomenon could be effectively criminalized in the European area. In this way, the European Union also sought to respond to the terrorist attacks of 11 September and to provide for a more robust legal framework in its Member States which, moreover, would facilitate international judicial cooperation in criminal matters. Portugal has transposed this framework decision to the internal legal order for almost 20 years and over time has made some timely updates with a view to meeting the requirements arising from the adoption of international and European legal instruments. International and European legislative developments in this area have, in the historical perspective, evolved over the years, as we have also sought to make clear in the detailed explanation of reasons for this bill. its articulation includes a set of improvements also in terms of the architecture of the law, with reflections in the Criminal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure (CPP) and in avulge legislation. As an example, this architecture becomes more precise from the legal-criminal point of view, improves the typification of terrorist acts, ends with the distinction between internal and international terrorism, improves the criminal norms of crimes related to terrorist activities, provides for the entry into national territory for the practice of acts of terrorism and extends the punishment of preparatory acts of terrorism. In addition, the Portuguese legal system adapts to the application of the law in space when crimes committed outside the national territory are concerned and a mechanism of articulation between States is envisaged in order to prevent and/or overcome positive conflicts of competence. It also reinforces the protection of victims of terrorism, who are constantly and unequivocally considered vulnerable victims, benefiting from the Victim Statute and from the prerogatives given to them by Law No 4/2009, in particular as regards the advance of compensation. With this bill, which we believe to be peaceful and worthy of broad consensus, the national legal framework is therefore updated in the light of international and European provisions, thus supplementing the transposition of Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 541 and thus meeting the comments submitted by the European Commission. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With the adoption of this bill, the Portuguese State is better prepared, in its different dimensions, to respond to what is expected in terms of cooperation and to prevent and combat terrorism in all its forms and manifestations.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u65	Arrest the incendiaries! Those are terrorists!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u66	in this respect, the proposal that the Government brings to this House today does not treat the terrorist agents or agents as enemies of the State, because it does not deprive them of rights, nor does it hesitate, as it cannot vacillate a state of democratic law, before acts which constitute one of the most serious violations of the universal values of human dignity, freedom, equality, solidarity and the enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms on which the European Union is founded. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They are acts that cause innocent victims and suffering that cannot be justified on any grounds. Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 541 asserts those values, freedoms and rights in its articulation. This bill, when it welcomes them, concludes the articulation of domestic law with such desire. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u67	The Minister's intervention did not raise requests for clarification, so that we move on to the stage of the interventions. First of all, Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u68	Mr. President, Mr. Ministers, Mr. Members: This initiative which the Government has submitted and which we are discussing today, Law No 29 / XV / 1. the, as mentioned above, intends to complete the transposition of Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 541 of Parliament and of the Council with regard to the fight against terrorism by replacing and amending the framework decisions previously applied. Thus, the Law on Combating Terrorism is amended as other legal instruments in force. The proposed law aims at the objectives announced by the directive: to adapt the laws of the European Union, in the fight against terrorism, to the evolution of these threats themselves, to establish minimum rules regarding definitions and concepts of criminal nature, to introduce protection measures, support and assistance to victims. Thus, after a first phase of transposition, it is also criticized for the delay, what is now being done is to include in the Counter-Terrorism Act and in all other diplomas, including the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, amendment or clarification of concepts, improvement of standards in the sense of greater homogenization, the express prediction of the punishment of terrorist preparatory acts. It also reinforces the protection of victims of terrorism, in particular in the area of compensation or specially vulnerable victim status. Only one opinion was received from the Supreme Council of the Magistracy, which confirms the correspondence of the purposes claimed by the directive — and this diploma therefore completes its transposition — but also mentions the possibility of improvements in the drafting. It must be said that, as we know, the CFP is critical of the European Union's security policy, in which the fight against terrorism has been an argument and has served to limit rights, freedoms and guarantees.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u69	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u70	This is a discussion which would also force us, by mere decency, to question the criteria adopted in the categorization of those who are terrorists and those who are not or to question the fact that, for example, it is the European Union, and Frontex, to finance and arm Libyan militias, which is called « coastguard », to do the dirty work of control of the so-called « external borders », with the forced and illegal returns of migrants and refugees to Libya, where they are subject to the greatest atrocities, as you well know.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u71	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u72	And from Russia, aren't you talking? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u73	But, apart from the hypocrisy of the European Union, which we are already used to, with regard to the initiative in question and the improvement and completion of its transposition, the CFP will await the remaining opinions and will be attentive to the work in the specialty, to make its contribution there. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u74	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Mónica Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u75	Mr President, I welcome the Minister of Justice, and welcome you to this House, where she has only once. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposed government law we are debating today is intended to complete the transposition of Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 541, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 March 2017 on the fight against terrorism. There is much national consensus on the need to unite efforts against terrorism, and it is certain that terrorist acts constitute an intolerable violation of the structural values of human dignity, freedom, equality and rights, freedoms and guarantees, and constitute one of the most serious threats to democracy and to the foundations of the democratic rule of law which the European Union supports. Terrorism threatens the European area of freedom, security and justice and has proliferated in Europe with manifestations of great violence, radicals and extremists. Terrorist attacks or their mere threat are intended to coerce in fear of citizens and democratic governments. For the protection of the European Union, an integrated response is required, containing appropriate and proportionate instruments to combat terrorism, calling for direct intervention by each Member State. Cooperation at European level has become imperative, but also at international level, but it is important to highlight here the importance of several entities such as Europol, Eurojust, Interpol, in the detection and prevention of terrorist acts. It is necessary to close ranks against all terrorist activities, whether jihadists, solitary wolves or others, and to highlight the concerns expressed in the 2021 RASI ( Annual Internal Security Report ), resulting from the eventual return to Portugal of foreign terrorist combatants, the TECs. The pandemic also boosted a massive consumption of jihadist propaganda, especially among the younger age groups. Portugal was no exception and cases of young people who radicalized in online processes were signalled, and the Internet was an extraordinarily effective and powerful means to expand, on a large scale, the network of contacts at international level. This bill seeks to amend the designation of certain types of crime, including terrorist organizations, terrorism and international terrorism, replacing them with types of crime of terrorist offences, offences related to terrorist groups, offences related to terrorist activities. Although the content of the criminality is maintained in respect of its constituent elements, the expression « infringement » is certainly not rigorous and the directive does not impose it, and may be fined in specialized work. The bill also increases the criminal framework of some legal types and seeks to densify, in a weak legislative technique and even with errors, what was missing when the directive was transposed by Law No 16 / 2019 of 14 February. Speaking of errors, I refer to the reference in the proposed law to the non-existent paragraph 2 of Article 1. that of the CPP, which has long been out there, and to the many revoked articles 300. o and 301. the Criminal Code. We must not fail to mention that Portugal transposed the aforementioned directive on the fight against terrorism late until 8 September 2018 and was only transposed until 15 February 2019 — Portugal, the PS Government, always late. In the meantime, the European Union considered that the directive had not been properly transposed — to help the party! — and on 9 June 2021, he attempted an infringement procedure against Portugal, urging our State to proceed with its correct transposition. This delay in matters of national security is not justified, Mr Minister. Other actions and omissions should include recruitment, training for terrorism, travel for terrorist purposes, financing and support for the victims of terrorism in all its aspects. Terrorism is a real threat and the PSD, as a responsible party with a vocation to govern, believes that the fight against terrorism is a matter of national sovereignty, structuring internal security, which calls for the conjugation of efforts and the sense of state, for the benefit of Portugal. The Minister is therefore available to work in the field of expertise with a view to meeting the obvious legislative shortcomings of this proposal for a sick law in order to comply with our legal framework with the European Union's legal framework. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u76	To speak on behalf of the European Union, Mr Bruno Nunes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u77	Mr President, Mr Ministers, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by saying a special greeting to the young people in the galleries. This transposition, as has already been said, has actually come to an end to a mistake that comes from the past. Taking advantage of the presence here of so many young people who, at this moment, should think « what are they doing? , I clarify that what happened was basically that the European Union sent TPC (work to the government) in 2017, and the government did not, the government did not carry out its homework. It should have made the transposition by 8 September 2018, and only did it on 15 February 2019. And why? They will now say that it was because, meanwhile, the government fell, etc. No, the government didn't because it was being rude in the classroom, with bad company and focused on other matters. The teammates took him to the wrong way and concluded that terrorism was something we should not worry about. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u78	We shall be advised by the European Commission that the transcripted legislation does not cover the threat of infringement practice as set out in that Article. In other words, the usual friends don't know what they're doing here and they always come with the anathema and the stigma that this is racism until the day—we hope they're not right! — in which, unfortunately, it happens in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u79	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u80	In the meantime, we have been notified as a state, as a student, that we had two months to correct—it is like Mr. Professor said he has two months to correct the work — this deadline given in June 2021, and we basically do not correct. As an example of what has been said in the previous bill, we are sure that the justification will be « because the government has fallen ». They had enough time, between June 2021 and September, to do the housework, but they didn't.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u81	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u82	The justification is that, possibly, they were occupied with other issues, or they didn't want to give reason to arrive at the question of terrorism, or, then, they were very busy thinking about the Budget that they would have to negotiate with the left and the extreme left to try to keep a government, which ended up falling. These legislative techniques used by the Government in transposition are criticised in a subtle way by the Supreme Council of the Magistracy, which clearly states that the legislative technique used is not always the most appropriate, clear or precise. We continue to consider that this problem of terrorism only happens out there. Fortunately, today we have heard Mrs Monica Quintela talk about a kind of terrorism that we have mentioned and which also has to do with migration policies, with the issue of nationality allocation, and we could go out there and try to explain more concretely everything that goes around the phenomenon of terrorism, to understand how we have allowed the residence of many people in Portugal, such as what is now happening in Benformoso Street, where there are 1,000 people registered by each building. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u83	But there is absolutely nothing going on and we all continue to consider that this issue of terrorism only happens out there. We sincerely hope that these young people who are here today will have a peaceful, peaceful life, with the possibility of diversity and pluralism of opinion and that they will choose the best party to lead their future, but that they will never go through a terrorist attack because of our responsibility, for we simply have not transcribed standards and criminalized terrorism as it must be criminalized. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u84	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u85	Mr President, Mr Ministers, Mrs and Mrs. Members: Today we are discussing the transposition of a directive of the European Union which is changing the Law on Combating Terrorism, as has already been said here. We all remember cases of terrorism that have left the world on the alert and terrorized our society and therefore this has been one of the main challenges of the European Union and its Member States, which must work and collaborate in order to prevent terrorist attacks and to ensure the safety of citizens. There is no doubt that terrorism has evolved in various aspects and needs to be combated. The adoption of legislation that accompanies this development and adapts, without violating rights, freedoms and guarantees, is one of the ways in which we can do so, but we must not forget the resources needed to combat this threat.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u86	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u87	However, I cannot stop talking here about the process of transposition of this directive. Madam Minister, the transposition of this directive is another example of the incompetence and incapacity of this socialist government, which is already a brand image of the Governments of Antonio Costa in the last seven years.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u88	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u89	We all make mistakes, but what distinguishes the competent from the incompetent is that some correct us in time and others remain in the same mistake. [[Applause from the IL.]] The governments of the Socialist Party are responsible for stagnation, for Portugal's lack of growth and for Portugal's delay in the face of other countries of the European Union and are the PS governments that constantly throw us to the tail of Europe. But, look, we have to be fair, because there are exceptions. We were able to be in the Champions League in the ranking that measures the countries that are most backward in the transposition of directives and in the ranking that measures the number of processes instituted by the European Commission due to errors or delays in transposition. If the ranking is negative, yes, Portugal and the Socialist Party shine with the bad figure they represent us and with the delay to which they condemn the country and the Portuguese. [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]] And here we are once again discussing the delay and pressure that is made by the European Commission and which obliges this incompetent government to always run after the damage. Like any work done in a hurry, it is wrong, and whoever says so is the Supreme Council of the Magistracy, as it has already been said, which states that the legislative technique used is not always the most appropriate, clear and precise. The Liberal Initiative will abstain, but the specialized work will have to be meticulous and cautious. We will be here to ensure that citizens' rights, freedoms and guarantees are not run by them and that this law will not bring any problems in the future. We already know that the Liberal Initiative bothers the Socialist Party, which tries to shut us down by force, but can count on us, that we will be here to do the polling work we commit ourselves to. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u90	For an intervention, Mr Rui Tavares has now given the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister : It has already been said that the fight against terrorism must ultimately be the subject of a compromise between freedoms and security. That is not the view of the Free, it is not that we should find a medium-term between freedom and security. For us, the fight against terrorism must be carried out by keeping our own rights acquis in full and it must be done itself as a defence of rights. That is why, in the field of expertise, the Free will will focus mainly on three issues: firstly, on clarifying what is meant by 'infringement', which is not sufficiently densified in the text; secondly, on what has been identified by the Supreme Council of the Magistracy itself, in its opinion, as the need to clarify what is meant by 'the collective person established in Portuguese territory', because we do not want this to violate any of the association rights enshrined in the Constitution; thirdly, in the victims, i.e. in a discussion where speciality, to deepen the guarantees of protection for victims, including indirect victims. In today's vote, the Free will opt for abstention, but that does not mean that we will no longer participate in the debate in the field of specialty, with a view to improving the transposition of this directive into Portuguese legislation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u92	For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister: The terrorist acts, which constitute one of the most serious attacks on democracy and the rule of law, and their fight and prevention must be a priority and concern in our country. This does not mean that the lack of a security culture can be confused with a humanitarian immigration policy, even to solve the problems that we have not only lack of labour but also demographics in the country. The priority must indeed be to look at prevention, especially in the face of growing phenomena such as proliferation in social networks of the agaration for terrorist acts or even the dissemination of hate speech. in this diploma today brought the debate by the government, one of the issues that concerns us is precisely the protection of victims and their families. This diploma makes significant progress in this area, such as the award of compensation to victims or recognition of the status of particularly vulnerable victims. However, it seems to us that this diploma lacks some improvements, to be made in the discussion in the field of specialty, we hope that the Government will have an opening for this — so that the directive is fully complied with, because it speaks in emotional and psychological support, in legal counseling and in simplification in access to information. However, the proposed law, in this type of support, is not entirely clear, to say no, so we hope that, in the field of expertise, there will be an opening to accept the proposals which the NAP will certainly bring to debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u94	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Francisco Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister : The proposed law submitted by the Government aims to complete the transposition of Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 541, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 March 2017 on the fight against terrorism. But let us concentrate on the proposed law and its content, not on ancillary matters. This Directive lays down an important set of rules on the definition of criminal offences and terrorist sanctions, as well as measures to protect, support and assist their victims and specific rules on the application of the law to offences committed outside the national territory. It aims to approximate the laws of the Member States, primarily by innovating in the response to the so-called ‘foreign terrorist combatants’, i.e. persons travelling abroad to receive or train terrorism, to practice terrorist acts or contribute to their practice and who represent a threat after their return to the States of origin or residence. What is at stake is therefore the defence of the democratic rule of law, in the face of cross-border crime, and the defense of the international community itself. We must bear in mind that the phenomenon of terrorism has been known as a notorious increase and several developments, since the connection to the self-proclaimed Islamic State, now in strong recession, to the return to the danger of non-State authors, such as terrorist networks and individual citizens, the so-called « solitary wolves», which spread the danger in the European space. The directive which is now being transposed by the bill represents a form of legislative harmonisation, so that no country can cease to have such important rules in its legal system of prevention and combating terrorism. The European Union is an area of security, justice and freedom, and it is precisely within the framework of the defence of these values that this proposal cannot fail to be considered. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we must be fully aware of the importance of security and success in combating terrorism for the health and life of our democracies, and these matters should therefore deserve the greatest possible consensus, being matters of internal and national security and must be placed at a suprapartmental level. Security is a factor of freedom and it is not just for someone who feels safe only if he feels free and unconditional in his freedom of movement, not restricting himself to spaces that assess as safe, contrasting with those at risk. We therefore regret the abstention of some parliamentary groups, taking into account this necessary national consensus. Terrorism, because of the insecurity it causes, makes our societies more permeable to intolerance, so it is a fragile factor of democracies. This bill complements the transposition of Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 541, as a result of recommendations issued by the European Union to our country, amending some of the requirements of Law No 52 / 2003 of 22 August, entitled « Counter-Terrorism Act ». in this proposal, rules on the express incrimination of acts related to terrorist activities are incorporated, ensuring full confirmation of the law with the Community directive. Incriminating standards for offences related to terrorist activities, including those referred to as « travels for terrorism », are further improved. In view of the seriousness of offences related to terrorist activities, for four years the maximum limit of prison sentences applicable to the crime of glorification of acts of terrorism is raised. In addition, a concept of terrorist infringement is included in the law, which is based on typical malicious acts practiced in certain contexts and with certain motivations. The solution adopted is to prevent shortcomings in punitiveness, making no sense to distinguish, in autonomous precepts, internal terrorism and international terrorism, and to abandon, in this respect too, the technique of the law in force. There is also provision for the punishment of preparatory acts for terrorist offences and terrorist offences, terrorist offences and offences related to terrorist activities are clearly identified in the law. Given the specific needs, the protection of victims of terrorism, who are always considered particularly vulnerable, is reinforced. Finally, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group expresses its full availability to consider possible improvements to the proposal. Mr Minister, the question I put to you is whether, with this review of the transposition of the directive, legislation will be sufficient to deal with the current situation or whether we should continue to implement counter-terrorism legislation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u96	For an intervention on behalf of the BE Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u97	Mr President, Mr Ministers, Mrs and Mrs. Members: There is a widespread condemnation in our society of terrorist attacks, many of them executed here in Europe on behalf of the self-proclaimed Islamic State, Daesh. There is also a general condemnation, for example, of the terrorist attacks perpetrated by the extreme right,... [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u98	What about Iran? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u99	...that would come and convey the theory of great substitution, as it was, for example, in the massacre of Utoya. I thought there was a general condemnation in this Chamber, but by the voices of the Arrival, I doubt about this matter. But, returning to my intervention, the condemnation of terrorism is widespread in our society...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u100	You don't know who the terrorists are!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u101	... and in view of the events taking place on European territory, there was a reaction from the States, the European Commission, the European Parliament, with a set of legislation aimed at responding preventively but also reactively to the events of acts of terrorism. Positive matter, for example, is the safeguarding of victims and the way their rights are now strengthened, as already stated in the 2017 directive, which is now concluded in the transposition. But it is also clear — and we have already said so at other times — that, on the one hand, there are abolitions of certain rights, in European law, which can be confronted with constitutions and with rights that we consider fundamental. On the other hand, there is a somewhat discretionary way in which these directives can be transposed into national states and which place concerns on the relationship between States. For example, the way in which Poland or Hungary may consider their citizens acts as terrorists, under this directive, puts us many doubts,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u102	Put your eyes on Poland and Hungary!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u103	... because we know that these governments have about their populations something that is no longer, in our view, a democracy—which is often authoritarian positions and totally fundamental rights attacks—and that, in the face of the reaction of their populations, these governments can simply use this legislation to suppress rights that we, in our democratic space and in our conception of democracy, consider unattainable. So I would like to leave these concerns on the table. However, this bill, which comes from the conclusion of the transposition of the directive, does not bring any new paradigm, in view of what has already been discussed in this House, and does not bring great novelty, except the transposition of the final elements of the directive. I leave only one final note, because I believe, by the intervention of the Socialist Party, that there is this openness to specialized work: the Supreme Council of the Magistracy has alerted to some needs of improving detail in the context. In the field of expertise, we will also be here to help in this direction. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u104	This concludes the stage of discussion. For the closure, you now have the floor of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to say that it is always a pleasure to be here in Parliament. This is actually my fourth intervention in the legislative process. I've been here about the metadata, about the Code of Criminal Procedure, about the criminal record, and now I'm here too. Of course, this proposal will deserve from this House, as should indeed be the amendments they intend to introduce, in particular corrections and improvements. This is an absolutely structural issue for the rule of law and I therefore believe that we will be able to extract from here a legislative act that will fully fulfil its role. Terrorism does not only call into question human lives, causing physical or psychological damage, terrorism undermines democratic institutions. That's what we should also pass on to the young people who were here with us. Terrorism undermines our democratic institutions; terrorism undermines the rights, freedoms and guarantees; terrorism undermines fundamental rights; terrorism undermines freedoms; terrorism undermines the security that enables them to enjoy those freedoms. That is why this House will, of course, legislate that we can complement this directive, which is, moreover, a directive with concerns that respect, as has already been said, the treatment of victims, considering victims particularly vulnerable. Therefore, this will surely be a legislative piece, a legislative act, which will not fail to engage everyone in the improvement of the one that is a desire for freedom, because combating terrorism is a plan for freedom. For this reason, of course, it has been referred, as it has been announced very recently in this Chamber, a very effective strengthening of the means available to the judicial police, which is the superior criminal police body with special competence in this matter. That is why, too, the Government reinforces and joins itself in combating terrorism. Mr President, I wish that this bill could bring together a broad consensus, because this is, after all, a struggle for all. Combating terrorism, preventing terrorism, in order to safeguard freedoms, in order to safeguard our democratic way of life, in order to safeguard human rights, in principle, rights, freedoms and guarantees. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, he took the presidency of Vice-President Adam Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u106	We shall conclude the debate on point 2 of the agenda. We say goodbye to the Ministers and I congratulate the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We moved on to the debate around point three in our agenda, which consists in the general discussion of Bill Nos 244 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Regulates the installation of intensive crops and obliges environmental impact assessments, 286 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Integrated Environmental Assessment of Intensification of Land Agricultural Use and Environmental Impact Assessment Scheme of Intensive and Superintensive Agricultural Projects, Related Industrial Activities and Non-Agricultural Land Uses RAN and 288 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — It foresees the need for environmental impact assessment of agricultural practice in an intensive and superintensive way of tree species. To submit Bill No. 244 / XV / 1. a ( BE), will use the floor Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block brings the debate to a legislative initiative which is not currently discussed for the first time in this Parliament, but whose urgency and urgency are becoming increasingly urgent. We live an extraordinary period of drought and, in our country, data on rainfall tell us that we have to retreat almost 100 years to reach an equal year in terms of the absence of rain. A demolition alert is added to this reality. Scientists say that these periods will be even more recurrent in future years and, therefore, the country has to prepare for the new reality. However, this denunciation of drought and what we see in concrete on the ground are very different in terms of scenario. For example, the authorisations of new agricultural holdings, whether in greenhouses, are intensive, and the complete absence of a validation of their sustainability. For example, still this year, authorisations and licences are being given to agricultural products whose sustainability, as far as water is concerned, is not properly safeguarded and in areas that are dry and which are already known to have no water required for licences which are being authorised. This is what you have to change. We are not doomed to live forever on inevitability and misfortune. We must prepare our country and territory for climate change and ensure that there is sustainability that is also taken forward in the agricultural sector. We see that the intensive and superintensive model has several problems known by scientists: there is a great consumption of water, there is a contamination of water resources, which lead to soil erosion and enormous loss of biodiversity. We know that monocultures are part of these problems with the loss of biodiversity and today we already know—because it was enough to see what happened, for example, last year, in the circumstances that shocked the country—that these forms of agricultural exploitation are also a huge focus of labour exploitation, with a lot of labor that is brought about illegally and with a brutal suppression of workers' rights, often of profound attack on human rights. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] Just look at the case of Odemira, which shocked the country, and how it is related to the form of farming that happens there. We see that the proliferation of superintensive crops has not ceased in recent years. The example of Alqueva thus demonstrates. In 2015, in the area of influence of the Alqueva Water Perimeter, the olive represented 11 % of the territory and the 1% fined. But in 2021 the olive represents 61 % of that water perimeter and the almond 17 %. I wonder if you think this is acceptable. I wonder if it is sustainable to have a monoculture only with these two forms of farming in such a large space as the Alqueva Water Perimeter. Let's look at what happens in the Mira River perimeter and how greenhouses in Odemira's space are also an example of a clear attack on environmental sustainability. That is why — and it is not surprising — we see Portuguese and European environmental activists saying that it is not sustainable. It is an attack on the future of the planet, it is an attack on the future of our regions, but it is also an attack on biodiversity and fauna that happens in this context. What does the Left Block propose? The Left Block proposes something as simple as the constitution of a national charter of ordering and installation of permanent crops, which guarantees the safeguarding of buffer zones for water lines, shelters and protected areas, which guarantees a national thought on the sustainability of this action and of this economic exploitation; landscape plans to safeguard water perimeters; a 10-year moratorium on the installation of new greenhouses, in particular in the Mira Water Perimeter, and the guarantee of something as simple as the environmental impact assessment (AIA) for the licensing of new intensive crops exceeding 50 ha or, in the case of greenhouses, 20 ha. They are materials of sustainability, future and protection of the country against climate change. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u108	We proceed to the presentation of Bill No. 286 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Integrated Environmental Assessment of Intensification of Land Agricultural Use and Environmental Impact Assessment Scheme of Intensive and Superintensive Agricultural Projects, Related Industrial Activities and Non-Agricultural Land Uses. To present this bill with a huge title, Mr. João Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This huge title is due to the concern and knowledge that the CFP has on this matter, which implies that it has this dimension, characterizing, from the very beginning, what is at stake.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u110	It's a matter of rigour!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u111	In fact, the CFP brings to this House a bill establishing an integrated assessment process of intensification of agricultural land use. But it is also necessary to consider that this bill has other dimensions, including the assessment of environmental impacts on intensive and superintensive agricultural projects. We can't forget this, Mr. President. Members, that, with regard to the intensive and superintensive use of soil, particularly in agricultural activities, are also concerned related activities. The use of the National Agricultural Reserve (NAR) for other purposes, such as Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, you know it well. With many of the solar power parks today, we are at risk of losing suitable land for agriculture and which should be used for it, but which may run the risk of being used in this other area. So the PCP will distinguish two things here. First of all, we argue that what has already been done and is on the ground is a study, an integrated, environmental assessment, because we understand that the effects in these already occupied areas need to be known. Mrs. Members, this bill is not intended or directed solely to the Alqueva region, and in particular to the Alqueva Multiple End Entrepreneurship, but is a good example for terms such as counterpoint and assessment of what is at issue. Look at this, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, you may think that Alqueva didn't have any studies, but you did. Crop implantation scenarios have been studied. The scenario that was at issue, and for which the initial water perimeter of 120 000 ha was studied, was 30 % of the occupation of permanent crops, which are characterized by olive and almond. Today we do not have 30 % of what is already 130 000 ha, but 84 % of employment with permanent crops. Well, that makes a lot of difference. In fact, the lack of planning in Alqueva is such that, still this week, on our visit to EDIA ( Alqueva Development and Infrastructure Company, S.A. ) , I took the opportunity to question your president about a scenario in which all farmers would want to plant olive trees. I asked if there was anything to prevent it, which Mr President said to me: "No, the whole land and the whole area would be planted with olive trees. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Protests of PS Members.]] There is no planning, it does not respond to what is necessary, particularly the fundamental objective and mission in terms of the social function that the land represents, to feed our population. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u112	Secondly, with regard to the environmental impact assessment regime, which is not so extensive, it is important to know the effects — which the CFP and everyone recognise — of an intensive and superintensive culture. In fact, we can say that it is a crime that is happening, replacing the intensive olive by superintensive, because it has harmful effects on soil, has effects on water resources, whether surface, or underground, but also on biodiversity, on cultural heritage and on the population, particularly with regard to public health. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill responds to that. It responds to these characteristics all and, above all, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, you are concerned about what is not happening, which is that we will not leave sterile land for future generations, and above all, we will not contribute to the national plan to produce food for our population. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u113	To submit Bill No. 288 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — The need for Environmental Impact Assessment of agricultural practice in an intensive and superintensive way of tree species has the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Before we proceed to the presentation of our initiative, I can only point out that, since yesterday, since we heard here in this House, Mr. Prime Minister said that Louis Dias was wrong and that nothing would be done, this farmer was hospitalized, is in the hospital right now and, indeed, we have to be supportive of what is happening with him and ask the State to respond to this farmer. With regard to our initiative, I wanted to say that environmental protection and environmental simplicity are antonyms, as are the protection of the environment and the intensive and superintensive agriculture that the Government supports and how they are antonyms the sustainable use of water and the government's irrigation plan. The prevention of fires and the « eucalyptisation » of Portugal are also antonyms. at this time, instead of safeguarding the important natural heritage and habitats, the government comes and further simplifies the processes so that no environmental impact assessments are needed. This is the legacy that is leaving to future generations. It is not acceptable for the Government to exempt projects of environmental impact assessments or that, under the AIA regime, there may be undetermined tacit deviations or extensions. This is not the future of agriculture and the future of the sustainability of our territory. We well know that for the Government, economic and financial weighting prevails over environmental values — which should safeguard — and measures such as these make this objective more than clear. Harmonization between respect for natural resources and agricultural activity is impossible to achieve if the current standard that bets on an agriculture that takes the maximum of soil in the shortest period of time, disregarding its natural cycles and neglecting the environmental impacts that this mode of production causes on soils, water, air, habitats and in all biodiversity. More: it also changes the landscape, as mentioned here with the case of the intensive and superintensive olive tree in our Alentejo. And if this is true for agriculture and agro-food production, it is also, of course, true for forestry. It is enough to remember that much of the area burned in our country in recent months corresponds to eucalyptal or pineal, which continue to exist intensive and superintensive plantations in areas of very high fire risk and that, even last year, the government wanted to increase the area of eucalyptus plantation to 881 000 ha. Contrary to this understanding, the NAP understands and demonstrates this, in the initiative it presents today, that also intensive and superintensive arboreal cultures, in addition to being subject to AIA, must be subject to an environmental licence. Only in this way can we say that we are effectively through an energy and green transition and not just that, from time to time, we are all very friends of the environment.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u115	The three bills that are under discussion were presented and then we will move on to the interventions. Mr Norberto Patinho, from the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr João Moura, from the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Rui Rocha, from the Liberal Initiative, Mrs Rita Matias, from the Czech Republic and Mr Rui Tavares, from the Free Trade Association. We therefore give the floor to Mr Norberto Patinho of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bills currently under discussion have in common a negative view on intensive crops in the area covered by the Alqueva enterprise, particularly on olives and peanuts. It is true that irrigation has introduced a clear paradigm change in Alentejo agriculture: more technology, more professionalization, more precision, more efficiency, product diversification, interaction with the agri-food industry sector, production for external markets.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u117	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u118	It is true that irrigation has enhanced the conversion of the use of soils or even the passage to the irrigation regime of traditional crops of drought, as is the case with olive trees. It is true that in the last two decades we have seen a real revolution in agriculture in the Alentejo. From an importing country, Portugal has become one of the world's largest olive producers and exports have grown very markedly.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u119	And quality! Quality!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u120	The peanut area has increased and the region is already the largest starch producer. In Alqueva there is the largest quantity of national melon and it is grown more than 50 % of all garlic produced in Portugal. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u121	The wine area tripled and the Vale da Rosa is about to become Europe's largest wine of organic table grapes. The production of dried fruits, corn, tomato, onion, melancholy, vegetables and fruit has also been expressed in the Alqueva regadium, along with the traditional cultivation of cereals and fodder. The increase in the quantities produced and the gross value of production has contributed very positively to the food sovereignty of the country and to the increase in exports of the agri-food sector. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u122	Employment growth in agricultural activities has been significant in recent years. Official data indicate a 43 % reduction in the use of fitofarms in Portugal, confirming that we are the State with the greatest reduction in the sale and use of these products. Regadio is an instrument for combating desertification, it is crucial for territorial cohesion and contributes to creating an essential green barrier to the necessary rural resilience of large areas of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u123	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u124	Mrs. Members, last Tuesday, the Committees on Agriculture and European Affairs conducted a working visit to the region of Alqueva, where it was possible to visit intensive olives and on sebe, a lake, a peanut—and there follow the harvest of almonds, as well as the operation of peeling and peeling—, vineyards and a cellar, an elevated station and a floating photovoltaic plant. It was a pity the ladies were here. Members who subscribe to some of the projects here in appreciation had not accompanied us, losing an excellent opportunity to witness on the ground the new regazios equipped with the most modern irrigation systems and equipment, increasingly efficient,... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u125	They don't know! You don't know! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u126	You guys have nothing to do, you can walk! We were busy!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u127	... the business dynamics that exist in the agricultural sector, the increase in the professionalization of the activity and the qualification of workers and agro-industries with absolutely remarkable technology. The Socialist Party is proud of the decisive contributions to this revolution in agriculture through the National Regadios Programme, which is strategic for the country, and obtaining financial resources for the planned interventions. It was the Government of the Socialist Party that decided to extend the Alqueva Water Perimeter, when previous governments had considered the project completed, not preparing projects for new blocks, not even captivating the water pumping throughout the system and not guaranteeing money for the necessary works. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u128	2 - 0!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u129	And, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we cannot claim new water blocks in the region—in Reg nexts, in Monsaraz, in Viana do Alentejo, in Évora, in Vidigueira or Moura—and then here in the Assembly, declare war on intensive cultures.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u130	This is for you, João!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u131	With water blocks, water is intended to be made available to farmers to enhance their crops, i.e. to produce through intensive agriculture. There has been an incomprehensible, unjustified and unproven alarmism around irrigation crops, as well as olive groves in particular, which calls into question the contribution this new reality has made to the dynamization of agriculture, the development of Alentejo and also to combating climate change.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u132	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u133	Not the Alentejo! from Lower Alentejo, because Portalegre is also Alentejo!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u134	The draft laws and resolutions under discussion today do not have a technical basis for support and are repeated proposals for other initiatives that have already been clearly rejected in this House of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u135	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u136	In view of the fact that the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 97 / 2021 establishing guidelines and recommendations on information and sustainability of intensive farming is in full application, these projects are extemporaneous. Intensive irrigation agriculture is perfectly compatible with the sustainability of resources. It is one of the primary instruments in the development strategy of rural territories and is essential to feed the world. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u137	He will now use the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr João Moura.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bills we are discussing today are not unpublished in this House. To spaces, the proponents of these bills come cyclically present them, with some slight changes. So it's not new. It's important today that we can explain what's on the table. What is on the table is that some parties in this Chamber are completely against the intensive and superintensive cultures in Portugal. That's what this is about. But while some groups clarify which cultures are and characterize, particularly olives and almonds, there are others who don't even identify them. What are intensive cultures? We're here talking about cultures in permanent soil, they're permanent cultures. The intensive crops are those that range up to 1000 plants/ha, the superintensives above 1000 plants/ha. Well, let me make a reference to one of the speeches that was made here earlier. He said that scientists claim that both intensive and superintensive crops are harmful, in a variety of varieties, both for ecosystems, both environmental and for water, finally, for everything and something else. The fact is that, in this House, whenever there are entities that come to clarify this matter, you are never present. They're never present! And, like you, the PAN too. Therefore, the groundwork without contradiction is, in fact, very strange!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u139	That's disconcerting!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u140	But, returning to intensive crops, the vineyards in Portugal, either in the Douro, in the Dão or in the Alentejo, have an intensity of 3 to 3000 plants/ ha. That is, far above what is considered superintensive. More, the orchards of the West or Cova da Beira have an intensity with a compass of 3 : 2, for example, of 1600 plants / ha, therefore, far above. The same applies to olives or peanuts mentioned here and which have been brought to the table.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u141	Learn what I say very quickly! I talked about it in the past legislature!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u142	I would also like to say to this House that the best and greatest agricultural investment ever in Portugal was undoubtedly the Alqueva. Alentejo tends for desertification and what Alqueva came to bring was an opportunity for Portuguese agriculture, of course, with species that are adapted to our climate that are internationally considered a success of production. Portugal is 9. the country of the world in the olive sector—and it is with pride that I say that Portuguese oil is only and only the best olive oil in the world—and therefore the 2, 5 billion euros spent on a dam today are considered as a productive investment that enables Portuguese farmers to have an opportunity, including for their exports and for the improvement of the quality and economy of Portugal. Now, what upsets the parties on the left is productivity—of course we know this is at stake—is the fact that the farmer has adapted, has significantly increased his production,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u143	This only reveals that you have not read the bills!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u144	... have reduced production costs and increased the profitability of a product in Portugal. Obviously, there is profit, that agricultural companies have profits, and even though they do because they generate jobs, they generate wealth for the national economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u145	Tell that to the Timorese they're there!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u146	And it's about this taboo that come to create a set of obstacles to Portuguese farmers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u147	Portuguese, where? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u148	... a set of rules that make what is already extremely difficult today. With regard to the irrigation, which has also been discussed here today, what we regret is not the proper use of a dam for a set of crops in Portugal. What we regret is in fact the lack of government strategy, which insists on not diversifying and not extending what is already happening in Alqueva. Portugal should have much more power. For example, in the Ribatejo, in the North Alentejano or in the Algarve, if we take advantage of, only it is, the water that flows in the rivers and that goes directly to the sea and is lost — contrary to what the leader of the Left Block said, that the water in the dams evaporates and therefore the great difficulty is that it will evaporate there! Open... [[CH's laughs.]] Water evaporates everywhere, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u149	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u150	I shall conclude, Mr President. So what is really missing is a real strategy for Portuguese agriculture, to expand these good examples that you have virtue to bring here and which we can praise. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u151	Mr. João Dias wants to use the floor? What is the regimental figure he invokes?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u152	For an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u153	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u154	Mr President, it is only for the following question: the CFP brought up the debate a bill, but unfortunately it was brought here an assessment with ideas made that do not translate into anything the content of the CFP bill. Therefore, it would be important for Mr. João Moura, when he comes to the discussion of a PCP bill, at least he read the initiative, not to come up with ideas made that do not translate what the PCP thinks.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u155	We now turn to the intervention of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, and I give the floor to Mr Rui Rocha.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It has been said here that these proposals have a vision contrary to intensive, superintensive and olive agriculture. I think that's it, but it's more than that. In fact, two of these proposals have a vision that is against agriculture! It is not only against the olive tree, nor against the intensive or superintensive activity! Moreover, these are proposals that, deliberately, or at least in their consequence, if they are not deliberate, are against the interior settlement, against the economic viability of the interior. That is why these proposals are presented! [[Applause from the IL.]] So we need to be clear in words. There is, yes— and that is a war that is starting now and will continue in the coming years, surely—a problem and a war, which is the war of water. Only that the issue of water is not again condemning agriculture or condemning the interior to depopulation, drought and fires, and that is what is, after all, implicit in these proposals. The question of water is very relevant. Yes, there must be a plan and implementation of plans for water retention. But there are those who are against dams and so it is a serious problem and we have to deal with it. It is necessary to deal with the distribution of water, because there are areas in the country that still have water and other areas that do not have water. We need to get to the water where it exists in the areas where it needs to be. We need to deal with the problem of water efficiency. And here we enter the anathema against agriculture which is implicit in these questions: agriculture uses water, yes, but water, then, is in food. The problem that exists is that there is an inefficient water distribution network and there are massive water losses in the network, often lost in the sea. That is the problem that needs to be dealt with, it is the political problem that this House has to solve, sooner or later. It is true that there are areas where there is no water. in these cases, where it is not possible to get water or reuse water, we have to talk about desalination and we have to have concrete measures to make water available in these sites. Yeah, the stream is important. We have Alqueva to set an example of the fundamental economic and social transformation that recreation can represent. We have to bet on recreation in other areas and, yes, Mr. Members of the PS, we need to recover the oldest irrigation networks, which are being abandoned and needing structural intervention. These are therefore the fundamental issues. It is not acceptable to condemn the interior, to condemn agriculture, for merely ideological sending. What needs to be supported and stimulated is agriculture with more technology, more innovation and more use. Agriculture is a way of populating the interior, it is a way of growing in the interior, it is a way of having employment in the interior. That is what this House must advocate, and not paralyze everything that is proposed. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u157	That is the way we are going!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u158	Mrs Rita Matias has the floor for an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Roger Scruton says that conservatism originates in a feeling, «the feeling that virtuous things are easily destroyed, but not easily created». Therefore, if the conservative wants to preserve what is before the State itself — such as family, life, values — it is also the conservative's own to estimate nature, to want to preserve it, to want to take care of the natural heritage and, above all, to ensure that their children and grandchildren, the new generations, will not find a world that is poorer and with less resources than the present or previous generations.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u160	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u161	The question is that a conservative and anyone who comes for good cannot align with this globalist and environmental agenda which, as it is said in good Portuguese, is a « cat hidden with the tail outside». It's an agenda melancholy, a green agenda outside, but red inside. The speaker displayed a poster. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It is an agenda that compromises our sovereignty, an agenda that hates ownership and expropriates the owner, an agenda that wants us poor and state-dependent and that tells the citizen: "You will have nothing, but you will be happy! Do not keep on seeking. ” What we're discussing here today is a mirror of this. It is a wealth of good intentions, but, as it is said, « of good intentions is the full hell». The Left Block, the PCP and the PAN, therefore the extreme left, want to regulate the installation of intensive crops and require environmental impact assessments. This sounds very good, it was not a way to show the hatred they have for the great capital, for the sectors that generate wealth and for the rural world. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u162	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u163	The intensive cultures that Mr. Deputies demonize are the vines, they are the oak trees, they are the orchards, and, more than wealth, these cultures generate sustenance.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u164	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u165	Mrs. Members, as the Arrival has said, « if the field does not plant, the city does not eat». As much as they like to spend your weekends in your organic gardens, if they leave your bubble they will realize that it is completely unsustainable and that organic farming cannot guarantee the food needs of Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u166	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u167	So instead of coming here to demonize farmers and entwine them with more bureaucracy, studies, taxes and taxes, they should, yes, appoint them as partners for the preservation of the environment.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u168	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u169	Farmers, ladies and gentlemen. Members, they are the first interested in reducing consumption. at the absurd price at which the water is, many are already those who adopt the system drop to drop. Farmers are suffocated with this inflationary crisis, with the increase in the price of water, fuel and fertilizers, with the increase in production costs. On this, the alleged owners of agrarian reform have no word to say. You are traitors to farmers and the rural world. [[Congrats from the CH.]] They want to make good water management, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? Simplify the processes in APA ( Portuguese Environment Agency). Farmers want to build baits, docks and dams on their properties, so they can hold the water and use it in their crops, and what do they find? They find a socialist state ready, on the one hand, to retain taxes from exorbitant prices to which water is present and, on the other, to extort with more taxes and licences. You want to create more studies and more licenses. Who's going to profit from all this? It is certainly neither farmers nor consumers. So once and for all, it is necessary to demystify: the farmer does not spend water, the farmer transforms it into food and oxygen.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u170	All right! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u171	You spend your life filling your mouth and talking about decarbonization. The farmer is the one who captures the CO2 most and should actually be paid by the CO2 that removes the atmosphere. To conclude, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, arriving will never be in line with the hypocrisy of anyone who wants to regulate stoves and intensive crops for others, but does not apply the rules to himself.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u172	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u173	The arrival will never be aligned with the hypocrisy of those who now pretend to be concerned about immigrants who are exploited in these productions, but who want to end the SEF (Foreign and Border Service) and have an open door policy, saying: « Come all, come all! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Congrats from the CH.]] The arrival will, yes, always be with the farmers and we will continue to put forward proposals that defend them, promote them and, above all, dignify them. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u174	In order to complete the course of the speeches, I now give the floor to Mr Rui Tavares of the Free.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I am glad that you are the last to speak in this debate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u176	It's always! Even in polls you're the last one!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u177	... a debate on soils and agriculture, but which, in fact, was an archaeological debate, because it had never had the opportunity to attend, in 2022, an environmental debate reflecting the old anti-ecological debates of the 1970s and 1980s. What I hear about, what they often tell me, is that ecology has won and that the problem is its success, because today there is ecological liberalism, there is ecological conservatism, there is an ecological right — all bullshit, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! When we arrive here to a debate on an environmental impact assessment on intensive and superintensive agriculture, we realize that the right is afraid to study, is afraid to evaluate, because they say: "They want to impose the study on our farmers, they want to take the bread from our farmers! Do not keep on seeking. ” Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, is studying bad? Oh, my God! Does it take farmers to make an environmental impact assessment?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u178	You're not afraid to study! What about the money? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u179	by the sights, ecology was only successful there, on the right side, in a superficial and advertising form. [[CH protests.]] They do not want agriculture in Portugal to be a productive agriculture, but a precision agriculture, an agroecology that competes for quality and not quantity.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u180	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u181	What you want is that it can be done without rules, without study and without evaluation. The Free will vote in favour of these proposals, although it is not the author of them.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u182	Have you disappeared from the polls? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u183	The mask has fallen to a right which sometimes appears green, but which, by the way, does not even want to study. [[CH protests and L-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u184	We consider this noise in the Chamber as an announcement of the closure of this debate, now giving the floor to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block Parliamentary Group for that purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u185	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Environmental issues are not cultural issues. There is no traditional idea here, now of the extreme right, that everything is a matter of culture, opinion and subjectivity. This extreme right, which goes from reaching the PSD, believes that, after all, environmental concerns are subjective things, they are not realities. Climate change, perhaps, is even anecdotal matter, is not a scourge that affects the country. And the drought...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u186	Mr President, just give me one minute to ask the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you're going to pick up a little bit, you're going to take your seats. Agriculture matters are of the greatest relevance, as has been demonstrated here, and Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block has every right to express his view to close this debate. So, and now with the Chamber a little more serene and quieter, I give you the floor again, Mr Deputies, to continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u187	Thank you very much, Mr President. It seems that for this right, which is extreme, there is no scientific knowledge in this context. It seems that agriculture is not one of the industries — yes, industries — which consumes more water in our country. They even think that the problem of public taps is comparable to the water consumption that agriculture has. [[CH protests.]] They think everything is ideological. For it is, the position of this extreme right is ideological, because it is negationist of reality. [[CH protests.]] But I want to give you something new...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u188	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd appreciate some quiet. We will hear Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, who will want to finish his speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u189	Mr President, there are truths that cost listening and, in the end, the truths are very hard to hear, they are not fake news.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u190	What truths? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u191	They like more of the fake news and the reality comes at a great cost of swallowing. Let us, then, talk about concrete matters: no parliamentary group was able to deny that there is a concentration of capital in agriculture, because there is a concentration of monoculture in our country. Several said anecdotal: there is now much more specialized work. Now, just watch the Timorese in Serpa or Beja. Just look at that exploration in Odemira, to which we witnessed, to understand how specialized the work is now. [[CH protests.]] I understand that the arrival considers that this is the work. Now, it is absolutely incomprehensible that the PSD and the Liberal Initiative come to say that this is the future of work in agriculture. It is the extreme right, with its ideas, to conquer the right in our country. [[CH protests.]] The Socialist Party also has a responsibility, to answer for whom it governs and for whom it says it has an concern for environmental sustainability, but on this matter it is as radical as this right that we now watch. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Meanwhile, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u192	This concludes the assessment of point three of our agenda. of point four is the assessment of the Bill No. 47 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Approves measures to combat the shortage of teachers and educators in public school, and the initiatives that are dragged with it, the Bills No. 290 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Establish compensation mechanisms for teachers displaced from the residence in the performance of their professional exercise and 291 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Programme for the attraction and establishment of teachers in public school, in general, and Draft Resolution No 223 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Recommends that the Government develop the necessary procedures for students to start the school year of 2022 / 2023 with the allocation of teachers in all disciplines. To submit Bill No. 47 / XV / 1. a, from the PCP, has the floor Mr Alfredo Maia.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u193	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The fact that we are discussing immediate measures to combat the shortage of children, teachers and specialists in public school justifies a reflection on the reasons why we arrived at this state of emergency. According to the survey of the National Federation of Teachers (FENPROF ), about 80 000 students continue to be without a teacher at least one discipline. Almost 74% of the groupings lack educators, teachers of 1. the cycle and teachers of Portuguese, Mathematics, English, French, Philosophy, Musical and Computer Education, among other disciplines. It adds the urgency to assume the need for more teachers for the recovery of lost learning. The short stretch will rise to a hundred thousand the number of children and young people in that condition, as a result of factors such as the entry into the medical situation of numerous teachers, removed by the Ministry of Education from the mobility by disease regime. On the other hand, the erosion of the teaching contingent is accelerated with the retirement of thousands of teachers. Only in the next quarter will they leave the classrooms around 680 and by the end of this decade more than half of the teaching class will be out. Another reason is the lack of conditions for other specialized teachers and technicians—psychologists, social service technicians, etc. — accept incomplete and poorly paid hours, with unsustainable costs in schools often distances hundreds of miles from their homes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u194	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u195	In the draft law presented by the CFP, emergency measures are identified, such as strengthening hourly credits, filling and merging incomplete schedules and, very important, the allocation of pay supplements for displaced teachers. In these cases, these are monthly accommodation supplements corresponding to 50 % of the value of the costs incurred by teachers and technicians, in particular for renting, as well as the reimbursement of transport costs. These are charges — to double, with regard to housing — often well above the wages taken, imposing redo sacrifices on educators, teachers and technicians away from their families and consummates, after all, to finance, in large part, the exercise of their professions, rather than receive the fair counterbalance of their work. As immediate measures of application, they do not exempt them, they must first pave the way for the urgent resolution of the fundamental problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u196	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u197	It is necessary to make teaching an attractive, intellectual and materially rewarding activity, with a greater commitment to initial teacher training, access to the profession and appreciation of careers and wages throughout life, including the recovery of service time still unlawfully frozen. Otherwise, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we will be condemning the survival of public school and mortgage the quality of education for the next generation, not to mention the children who today occupy banks in their schools. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u198	Thank you, Mr President, to whom I welcome the strict fulfilment of the time available. The Bureau does not register entries for requests for clarification, so to submit Bill No. 290 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Establishs compensation mechanisms for teachers displaced from the residence in the performance of their professional exercise, has the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u199	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Teachers are agents of knowledge and transformation of society, model of many of our children and our young people in their daily lives. Despite their importance, teachers have suffered many obstacles and many difficulties, whether at wage level, career progression, placement in the framework, lack of resources and conditions in schools, among many others, and yet remain one of the most disadvantaged classes of public service and forgotten by the government. Today, the NAP brings to the discussion one of these difficulties, the lack of compensation and support for displaced teachers, a daily problem of thousands of teachers who lose six or three hours of public transport per day, of teachers who are 250, 300 or up to 650 km away from home. More: This means that, in order to go home daily, they would have to pay about €400 per month or, alternatively, they would have to support two homes. Many of the teachers still have to separate themselves from their children so that they can continue the noble mission of instructing the children of others. Thanks to the profession they have embraced, teachers have to compete for places away from their homes and families, thus costing high expenses with the second housing and even having significant daily house-work trips, house-work. These monetary and non-monetary costs, which are indissociable from the teachers' own model of competition, do not, however, have any wage compensation. And, at least, adding to this, it is literally three years from home to back, with increased expenses, with a sea of longings in the heart and in which the €1100 they receive does not even come to the expense. A scenario of these leads many to end up, even by giving up and looking for other alternatives outside the educational system or even the country. That is why the NAP is presenting today a legislative initiative so that, like other rights already existing, even for holders of political office, such as Members, teachers can be financially compensated for housing or travel expenses, which, by imposing the competitive rules they must be subject to, are placed on public school equipment with an equivalent distance of 60 or more kilometres from their tax residence. This is not a closed proposal, it only aims to open a debate that seems to us of the greatest relevance in order to be able to value the teaching class, and we hope that the other political forces, in particular the PS, will be available to work in the specialty.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u200	To submit Bill No. 291 / XV / 1. a (BE) — Programme for attracting and setting teachers in public school, has the floor of Mrs Joana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are no numbers left to describe this beginning of a school year. The government has preferred to speak in hours to fill, or 700, or 583 hours to fill, and this is an interesting way to talk about the lack of teachers. However, the evaluation of the same problem when it is done by the students, when it is done by the school community, when it is done by the families, by the federation or by the unions, is done in another way, it is done by counting the students who do not have classes, that is, 100 000, that is 60 000 students without a teacher at least one discipline. And the numbers have been in this order of magnitude, between 60 000 students, 80 000 students, 100 000 students. The fact is that, looking at the same problem, regardless of the prism, the result is always the same: there are tens of thousands of students who start school year without a professor of Mathematics, without a professor of Chemistry, without a professor of Portuguese, without a professor of Informatics, and the problem is not improving throughout the year, on the contrary, it is getting worse.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u202	Status is good manager!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u203	Therefore, over the weeks and months, the lack of teachers will accumulate in the curriculum, and the same will happen over the years, which causes the right to education of these students to be challenged. The diagnoses are all done. The lack of teachers in public school has structural causes and has had concrete solutions. The cause of the lack of teachers in public school is the ageing, precariousness and devaluation of the teaching career,... [[Protests by the Member of the IL Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]] ... a devaluation that is so obvious that makes students not want to be teachers. According to the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ), Portugal is the country where less young people say they want to become teachers. And it is normal so, because young people also have parents who are teachers, they also have teachers and, therefore, see what a teacher's daily life is in public school and also see what a teacher's salary is in public school. This year, 2000 teachers will retire and there is no way to replace them. What is, yes, is very precarious in schools and the government does not want to realize that it is hiring and linking these teachers—not with language tricks on hours to be filled—which solves the problem of lack of teachers in public school.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u204	It's four-day weeks!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u205	So what is the question: what is the government waiting for? Is it not obvious to all that teachers are missing in certain regions of the country and that there are teachers in other regions, so displaced teachers must be compensated for travel and housing expenses? Is that not recognized by any worker, whether public service or private service? Are teachers the only professional class that is forced to move to the other end of the country without receiving any more tow for it?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u206	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u207	Are we expecting them to pay for work? This should be obvious, just as the trend towards teaching ageing should have been clear for a long time, rather than being compensated with short-term measures, which will have structural consequences. I refer to the detachment, or rather, the annulment of the detachment of teachers who were in social institutions, in the centers of Viva Science, in the technological centers. These teachers who were in mobility and who were now displaced to schools are going to be lacking in the places where they were and that will have consequences. The blanket is short, necessarily. The system will be cold on your feet or cold on your head, but constipated is sure. It's not safe from the flu! Therefore, even disease mobility will have consequences. The tendency is that, over the year, the problem gets worse rather than solving itself, and that is why we present in this project the proposals that we have been presenting over the years: linkage of teachers, so that those who are in the system do not go away, disappointed with their precarious situation and the poor wages, a compensation regime to dislocated teachers, so that we do not go asking teachers to pay for work, and measures to reduce inequalities that affect incomplete schedules, which, although they are less and less, because there are more and more full hours that are also empty, are still a problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u208	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u209	I will finish, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the satisfaction of the Minister of Education, because after all there are fewer students without a teacher, it is exaggerated, it is imposed and it is Leviana. There is no contentment in saying that the problem will get worse. It is evidence, evidence as great as the irresponsibility of this government not to have dealt with the matter so far. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u210	To present draft resolution No 223 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends that the Government develop the necessary procedures for students to start the school year of 2022 / 2023 with the allocation of teachers in all disciplines, Mr Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u211	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Arrival Party presents to this House a draft resolution that recommends the Socialist Government to develop the necessary dynamism so that students in basic and secondary schools have teachers in all disciplines. Let us not be deceived by what left-wing parties have been hiding for decades from the Portuguese. I mean PS, PCP and Left Block. It was this left that imposed that it is not the teacher who teaches, it is the student who learns, and it was this left that imposed distrust on the ability and honesty of teachers to evaluate their students.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u212	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u213	The law began to impose on teachers the self-assessment of students. It was the egalitarian radicalism of this left that also referred the teacher to the level of the student in the area of behavior regulation. The teachers ended up coerced to have to dispute the classroom rules every day with the students instead of teaching.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u214	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u215	To each new generation, it became more difficult to block chaos in the classrooms. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Demotivation, frustrations, depressions and diseases among teachers are responsible for being present here.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u216	Now we have to take this!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u217	from the disauthorization of the teacher and the teacher to the desauthorization of the mother and father was a step. Those who deregulation the school deregulation the family, deregulation the society, deregulation the economy. [[Congrats from the CH.]] From the classrooms, the left moved the most perverse and the longest mental subversion of the West in the form of suicide: cultural suicide, social suicide, suicide of the identities of the European peoples. The phenomenon was born in the early 1970s in public schools in the United States of America, it was born from the dystopia of the « just communities», the western twin soul of the Chinese Cultural Revolution of the same time. Our Mao Tsé-Tung has a name, called Lawrence Kohlberg, a psychologist and academic near Jean Piaget. Piaget and Kohlberg, and the progressive globalist army of education scientists who founded,... [[Congrats from the CH.]] ... that includes teachers, such as Brazilian Paulo Freire, whip us, half a century ago, with the most brutal ideological attack ever on teachers, knowledge, the idea of school. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The old sense of seeing in the teacher the one who taught, the one who evaluated and the one who determined the rules of the classroom, the guardian of the civil tradition of Europe and the West, this good old sense was immolated in cars of faith led by academic summaries.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u218	Only the rule is missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u219	Families that have long been away from public education for private education. In Portugal, there were only 6 % in 1978. Today, the numbers point to about 20 %. Last year alone, 6000 students in private education increased. On the contrary, there were fewer than 31 000 students in public education.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u220	Yes, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u221	Still, teachers are missing. Every week, about 1,000 teachers are asked to be replaced. The flight of students and teachers of public education has no parallel in the world. It's our Venezuela. [[All right!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u222	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the institutions were created to regulate the behaviour of individuals. [[PS, PCP and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u223	Ladies and gentlemen, listen carefully to your colleague. It's worth it. You may proceed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u224	I will make just one brief comment: politics is indeed a problem of mental health and that is what I am dealing with, but I will continue. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS, PCP and BE protests.]] They burst into mental health in some part of society from schools and they don't want to hear the truth, but they'll hear it. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Only in the realm of absurdity is that the school institution is viable without hierarchy, without authority and without order. That's what the left booted the teachers, humiliating them as never before. It will fulfil the duty of the teachers to return to the teachers what they are: dignity, honor, respect, authority, order, social prestige, the right to teach in peace, which you have never given. That is the solution to the lack of teachers. More: it is the solution to the problems of Portugal as a whole. [[Congrats from the CH, with Members standing.]] [[PS and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u225	Democratic spirit, zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u226	They have all their children in private schools! Even Mr. Rui Tavares' son is in an international school! Have shame! [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] [[Rice from BE Catarina Martins' deputy.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u227	You're laughing, but getting to the plenary in time is that it's quiet! [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u228	Presented the projects under review, we will begin the stage of the interventions. The first to speak will be Mrs Carla Castro of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u229	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have a number of subjects for education today. I chose to talk about the effective decentralization and autonomy of schools. It is necessary, yes, to have autonomy to attract and retain professionals and, yes, to end the competitions centrally. The current centralization and unique criteria distort merit and do not meet the specificities of both pedagogical projects and teachers themselves. Few professions have the ability to determine the future of our children and our young people as well as that of teachers. It is impossible to have good schools with good quality and good education without having good teachers, motivated teachers and aware of the impact they have on the lives of our children. The current competition for teacher placement seems to ignore all this. Based on an algorithm with decades of existence, the needs of both schools and teacher differentiations are completely ignored. This despite, of course, each school has its socio-economic context, resulting from the student population, geographical location or formative offer. None of this is taken into account when choosing a teacher, not even his course. For example, we imagine a school that needs to fill a permanent gap with a school component associated with vocational education. If there are candidates with extensive experience in vocational education or in school projects associated with companies, this is completely irrelevant to the process. And, yes, I also want to talk about travel compensation for teachers, as has been mentioned here today. They're necessary. But typically these incentives are made like? For miles, in front of the usual residence. Let us now think: do the centralised criteria make sense here too? Why not leave this to the criterion, for example, of schools and groupings, instead of deciding centrally whether it is 50, 60 or 75 km or whether it should be in return for expenditure? What kind of expenses? Do we want to compare the realities of Lisbon, Bragança, Viseu or Beja? Oh, my God! They have no comparable realities! Centrally defining fixed values, when realities are disparate, is not a good solution. Reiterate: why not let schools and groups define their own incentives? Incentives can go through money, can they provide accommodation—for example, in Lisbon, could it not be part of a host of incentives for accommodation for teachers? — or may go through other kinds of benefits, such as vacancies in kindergartens for the children of teachers. At the time of truth, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, there is fear of decentralizing, there is fear of losing control. There is a unique and centralized truth, rather than autonomy and that, with this autonomy, the means and accountability, so that each one can effectively choose his cassava, his solution. Finally, we remember: teachers and school directors are unhappy. Half of the teachers are in psychological suffering and the estimates of students without full hours are between 60 000 and 100 000 students. To conclude, I'm just saying one more thing: we can't be afraid of changing. We must be afraid, yes, to continue like this. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u230	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u231	For an intervention, Mr Rui Tavares has now given the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u232	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to thank Mr. Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro for quoting the great pedagogue and philosopher Paulo Freire, who, not making injustice to our Antonio Sérgio, is probably the greatest philosopher of education in Portuguese. [[Congrats from PS MP Alexandra Leitão.]] contrary to what you said and contrary to what you said a certain right, which does not do the housework, what you said was not that the teacher does not teach, the student learns. What he said was exactly this: "He who teaches learns by teaching and he who learns by learning. Do not keep on seeking. ” The problem with a certain right is that perhaps you have forgotten to learn from what students also teach and from what they tell us. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u233	Therefore, I take advantage of this opportunity to, on the one hand, congratulate the authors of the projects, because, in fact, there is a serious crisis in education in Portugal if we are going to lose 40 000 teachers, and if we are going to lose them to a good extent, it is because we need to support income, transport and housing, and, on the other hand, to say that what we need in Portugal is even more than this: it is to renew our education, again giving incentives for the vocation to teach to flourish. Thank you very much to the project authors. I also take advantage of the desire to have spoken about Paulo Freire to hope that on Sunday, in Brazil, the ideas of Paulo Freire will return to the Federal Government and give back wings to the largest mass of students in the Portuguese language world. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u234	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Madureira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u235	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The initiatives under discussion are the natural proof of life of the parties of ex-Georgency. It's the usual reprisinations this time of year.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u236	Democracy is a mess!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u237	However, saying this, they do not understand that the PSD does not follow these concerns. However, we do not believe — as we have never believed — that the solution can be in appreciable, timely measure, since the problems are beyond education. It required public policies that correspond to the problem of valuing and dignifying the exercise of the profession of teacher and that are structural. We know how the government is very capable of ruling a week, that is, in the short term. It does not manage anything that transcends that time horizon. The people call this "to be short-sighted". The PS greatly appreciates what it considers to be advances in education and opposes the past. But the duty of the socialist government is to rule for the future and we therefore go to the facts. In seven years of government, or ungovernment, there was no vision, no vision of strategy and the problems remained and grew sharp. Teachers continue to grow old, but they continue to hold on to non-essential tasks and the system wears them out rather than motivate them.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u238	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u239	It's urgent to change the recruitment system...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u240	Madam Member, I am sorry, let me just ask the House to be quieter, because it is a level of noise which makes it very difficult to listen to you and requires you to make an effort that you do not have to have. Please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u241	Thank you very much, Mr President. There are truths that cost listening! In fact, what I was saying is that it is urgent to change the recruitment system, which no longer responds to almost anyone or what is necessary. There is a need to change this recruitment. The Government must demonstrate the ability to involve all partners, to take on coherence and boldness in the proposals, to break taboos in the autonomy of schools and to refocus the teachers' mission. That is why he was elected and received a mandate from the Portuguese. The problem is that the absolute majority who fell on the government removes all the alibis. The end of the work of dismantling the so-called austerity and the illusory replacement of cuts—which with one hand gave 50, but with the other collection 35—opens the lack of strategy. They're hands full of nothing! In 2015 and 2019, PS promised that it would study the model of recruitment and placement of teachers, with a view to introducing improvements that guarantee greater stability of the teaching body, reducing the size of the teaching area frameworks. He also promised, among other things, that he would create incentives to bet on teaching careers and to develop teaching functions in areas of the country where the supply of professionals is scarce. Buying?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u242	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u243	No, he didn't! And he promised again in 2022. The last multi-year competition was therefore a missed opportunity. The Minister of Education speaks of paradigmatic changes and behaves as if he had never been in the Ministry, but what the country claims is that, in fact, the profession is dignified,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u244	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u245	...that the students have the lessons they are waiting for and that the teachers stop walking around with the house behind their backs. Recruitment is a blanket that can no longer stand remedies. We saw a despair and a disbelief that something would change for the better. This minister happened, as we have already said, but it does not seem to have anything new to offer.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u246	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u247	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, some initiatives today are not new and the maneuver is already known. The management partners, who now deny it, had five years to create solutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u248	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u249	And what did they do? Nothing! They didn't do anything. The current educational moment in our country is indeed worrying. The inconsistencies of policies, particularly educational ones, are suffocating the school and thus it is not possible to attract new ones or retain those who are thinking of giving up. I am here to recall a sentence said yesterday in this House by Mr. Prime Minister. Mr Prime Minister said: "Let's not invent problems, let's focus on your resolution. No one would forgive us for wasting our lives in the emergency, losing the perspective of the future. Do not keep on seeking. ” Well, that's right. Teachers, students, their families and the country are feeling in the skin the lack of government planning, the lack of sense of emergency, the price of reforms that have not been made and of poorly thought-out strategies. The future was yesterday, today action is required. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u250	Mr Agostinho Santa, from the PS Parliamentary Group, now speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u251	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Of course there is a problem, and recognize it as the first step to confront it. The lack of teachers has to dissipate and worry. It is thus understood that the parties in this House want to focus on this problematic reality. That is why we are called to this debate four initiatives: three bills of law, the CFP, the NAP and the BE, and a draft resolution of the Arrival. It's good that they feel concerned and want to find ways to overcome us. It is said that, about a decade ago, there were those who invited 26,000 teachers to leave the teaching profession. Already in 2019 - 2020, the same ones, or others by them in the same line, claimed that there were more teachers. Of course there's a lack of teachers in public school. As long as there's a student without all the classes, we can't be relaxed and comfortable. When this shortage occurs in some disciplinary areas, more strongly in Lisbon and the Algarve, if nothing is done, it will quickly become general. It must be said, by tribute to the truth, that the PS has not now agreed on the problem and this is illustrated by two examples. At the end of the XIII Legislation, the PS Parliamentary Group took the initiative to request a study of the National Council of Education on modalities for the recruitment of teachers. Only the PAN voted in favour. from the point of view, it is confirmed that for others the situation was not anticipated. In the XIV Legislature, the PS government asked the New University of Lisbon to study human resource needs in education at 5 and 10 years. Lowering the problem is not an acceptable path; ignore it, much less. The PS isn't going that way. It should also be noted, as parentheses and for example, that never by the actions of the Governments of Antonio Costa, it was possible for the defrosting of the teaching career to continue for four consecutive years. The PS, knowing the situation in its depth and implications, began the development of an authentic attack plan in two vectors. The first, given the pre-eminence, was organized around measures with immediate and visible effect, of which they stand out: the reduction in the number of teachers with statutory mobility, with the return to schools of 350 teachers; the possibility of renewing contracts by teachers who were already in school with incomplete hours, allowing the allocation of 1104 hours; the completion of hours, covering 300; the agility and reduction of the time of direct recruitment process by schools, achieving the allocation of about 130 hours; changes to the mobility regime for disease; the provisional revision of the skills for teaching. These measures with immediate effect were responsible for minimizing negative impacts at the beginning of the school year. For the previous two years, there is a reduction of 50 % of the hours to be allocated — minus 2500. More than 97 % of the time-fill requests have been met. Having put the hypothesis studied of a number of students without classes at least one discipline beyond the ceiling of 100 000, it was possible to ensure that this number was around 60 000. Is everything all right? No, no, no. A student who is affected by the situation is one more case. Zero is the target. Were there any improvements, encouraging gains? Yeah. The numbers speak for themselves. Well, we know that the problem we're trying to clarify doesn't go along with remedial measures. Structural matters are finally resolved with substantive amendments. That is why the Government of the Socialist Party is already becoming involved in the second vector of the attack plan to the problem identified that can be faced with conditions of full success already in 2023 - 2024, which marks and ensures the stability of schools, educational projects and their teams and the stability of teachers, so that they stop walking with the house on their backs. In addition to smaller measures that are more easily operationalizable, two essential struggles are identified: the overall review of the model of recruitment and placement of teachers already with a defined timetable of negotiation with the unions, including the preferential opening of school tables and the revision of the current frameworks of the pedagogical area, with the autonomic involvement of schools in hiring from their teachers. The review of the models of initial teacher training provides a perspective on the involvement of the school context, the realization of paid professional internships and the scientific-pedagogical updating of teachers who want to return to their careers. A reforming movement of this kind, comprehensive, participated and innovative, will respond to the imposed needs, not sympathetic to views of normative, partial and loose solutions. Nearing the conclusion, the problem of lack of teachers afflicts us, exalts us, bothers us, but this discomfort does not bother us. It motivates us to regenerating action, seeking the way of the stones. The solutions are within our reach. Let us repeat: as long as there is a student without any class for lack of placement of a teacher, we must keep ourselves unsatisfied and debtors of a solution. We don't do it at all. This is the dimension of our ambition. Will we all be accompanied? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u252	To close the debate on behalf of the CFP, Mr Alfredo Maia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u253	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Agostinho Santa, thank you very much for accompanying us in this unrest in the face of a problem that is really serious. In fact, it becomes odd that in the middle of the 21st century this House is discussing this problem with the gravity that has become clear here.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u254	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u255	It is not acceptable, in the middle of the 21st century, for a single child to begin the school year without a teacher. Therefore, of course, emergency measures are required in view of what is emergency and structural and substantive measures are imposed. In fact, Mrs Carla Madureira of the PSD, exactly what we have come here to present - assuming it as such - were emergency measures for an emergency situation in the face of the circumstances in which many teachers are, in fact, prevented from competing at places away from their residence and with the often duplication of their costs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u256	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u257	But we also stress that fundamental measures are needed: the valorization of public school, without doubt; the appreciation of the teacher's mission and career and, now, of the specialized technicians who are in schools; and the valorization of wages, which are deeply degraded, as we all know, and which are demotivating the activity of teaching, not to speak of its dimension in terms of dignity.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u258	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u259	It is urgent to review the recruitment contest itself, as well as the size of the pedagogical area frameworks — very extensive, many of them, imposing on teachers travels sometimes large tens of miles and even forcing them to stay away from their own home, within the same pedagogical zone framework. It is also necessary to question the model of the mega groupings that was imposed and for which the CFP has always disagreed. Mr Agostinho Santa made reference to the return to the schools of teachers who were in a statutory mobility scheme. I would like to ask you, however, that there will be no answer, but it is a rhetorical question, which the Government has made and which evaluation makes the Socialist Party the effects and consequences of the withdrawal of teachers who were in public services and institutions, on fundamental missions. I am speaking in particular of those who were at the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u260	We therefore conclude point 4 of the agenda. We can move forward to point five on the Rules of Procedure. I request the services to open the quorum verification period. [[Pause.]] I wonder if any Member or any Member has not been able to register.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u261	Mr. President, I couldn't register.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u262	Be registered. Any more Mr. Deputies? [[Pause.]] All right, the process is over. I ask the services to indicate the result of the quorum verification. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a quorum and we shall proceed to the vote. We begin by voting on draft resolution No 243 / XV / 1. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to Malta and to Cyprus. [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PS, the PS, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the NAP and the L and votes against the CH.]] Mr Pedro Pinto asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u263	Mr President, to say that we are going to present a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u264	It's registered, Mr. Deputies. We now vote on Resolution Project No 108 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends to the Portuguese Government the strategic environmental assessment of the new airport of Lisbon and to deal with various assumptions for the location of airport responses. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CH were rejected in favour of the PSD, BE, PAN and L and abstentions by the IL and the CFP.]] Mr. Pedro Pinto, ask for the floor. Are you going to make a statement of vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u265	Exactly, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u266	It's registered, Mr. Deputies. I would like to point out to the House that at the last Conference of Leaders the question of the advantage was raised in order to express the vote and, on that occasion, no one opposed this practice. The vote was followed by draft resolution No 118 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — By an integrated strategy of accessibility of the Alentejo as an instrument for promoting cohesion and territorial development. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, votes for the PS, CH, IL, PCP, BE, PAN, L and PS Pedro do Carmo and abstentions from PS MP Eduardo Alves, José Carlos Barbosa, Norberto Patinho and Ricardo Pinheiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u267	Mr. José Carlos Barbosa asked for the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u268	Yes, Mr President, to say that I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u269	Be registered. Mr. Eduardo Alves, would you like to speak for the same purpose?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u270	Mr President, I shall present a statement of vote on my behalf and on behalf of the honourable Members. Mr Norberto Patinho and Mr Ricardo Pinheiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u271	Be registered. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 150 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government invest in the East Line. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We then vote on the Resolution Project No 88 / XV / 1. a (BE) — By electrifying and modernizing the entire Alentejo Line. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, votes for the PS, CH, IL, PCP, BE, PAN, L and PS Pedro do Carmo and abstentions from PS MP Eduardo Alves, José Carlos Barbosa, Norberto Patinho and Ricardo Pinheiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u272	Mr. José Carlos Barbosa asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u273	Mr President, that is to say that I am going to make a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u274	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. I would like to remind you that, in accordance with the same Conference of Leaders, you have the opportunity to speak. Only representatives of a party, who have to point and vote at the same time, are exempted from the practice of getting up and sitting. We proceed to the vote on an application submitted by the NAP, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Economic Affairs, Public Works, Planning and Housing, without voting for 60 days of the Draft Resolution No 107 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government requalify the Alentejo railway line. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, this draft resolution is down to 6. the Commission. We are going to vote, in general, on Resolution Project No 117 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — By modernizing and electrifying the entire Alentejo Line and reactivating the Aljustrel Railway Branch. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, votes for the PS, CH, IL, PCP, BE, PAN, L and PS Pedro do Carmo and abstentions from PS MP Eduardo Alves, José Carlos Barbosa, Norberto Patinho and Ricardo Pinheiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u275	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u276	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u277	It is to inform you that I will make a statement of vote on this vote, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u278	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 119 / XV / 1. a (CH) — The creation of an integrated strategy for accessibility and mobility of Alentejo in national and international connections. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of the PSD, CH, IL and PAN and abstentions from the PCP, BE, L and PS Member Ricardo Pinheiro.]] The vote was followed by a request by the NAP for a discharge to the Committee on Environment and Energy, without a 60-day vote of Bill No 260 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — regulates the running and accommodation in balconies and similar spaces of pets and provides for the implementation of a national contingency plan. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, this bill goes down to 11. the Commission. We continue with the general vote of Bill No. 301 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Alter the Decree-Law No 276 / 2001 of 17 October, increasing the protection of pets. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and BE were rejected, votes against the CH, IL and the PAN, and abstentions against the PCP and L.]] We are now voting in general on Law No 31 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Amends the Code of Special Consumption Taxes by transposing the Directives ( EU ) 2019 / 2235, 2020 / 262 and 2020 / 1151, and introduces several amendments to strengthen the control mechanisms applicable under these taxes. [[The vote against the PAN and the abstentions from the PS, CH, IL, CCP, BE and L were adopted with votes in favour of the PS.]] Mrs. Members, the bill goes down to 5. the Commission. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are in the vote, and so Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen can't be circulating. This has certain solemnities. The ritual is part of the regime and the regime is democratic. So if we are voting, we are voting. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u279	To announce that I will present a statement of vote on the bill we have just voted on, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u280	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We turn to the general vote on the Proposal for a Law No 29 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Completes the transposition of Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 541, amending in particular Law No 52 / 2003 of 22 August ( Counter-Terrorism Act ). [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PSD and the NAP and with abstentions of the CH, the IL, the CFP, the BE and the L.]] Mrs. Members, the bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We will now vote, in general, on Bill No. 244 / XV / 1. a (BE) — Regulates the installation of intensive crops and obliges environmental impact assessments. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PAN and L, and abstention from the CFP.]] The general vote of Bill No. 286 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PCP ) — Integrated Environmental Assessment of Intensification of Land Agricultural Use and Environmental Impact Assessment Scheme of Intensive and Superintensive Agricultural Projects, Related Industrial Activities and Non-Agricultural Land Uses. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL and votes against the CFP, BE, PAN and L were rejected.]] We shall proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 288 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — It foresees the need for environmental impact assessment of agricultural practice in an intensive and superintensive way of tree species. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PAN and L, and abstention from the CFP.]] Mr. Eduardo Alves asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u281	Mr President, it is to be announced that, with regard to the vote on the last three initiatives, a statement of vote will be delivered on behalf of the Members of the PS Parliamentary Group and of the Socialist Youth, namely : on my behalf by Mr Eduardo Alves, Mrs Eunice Pratas, Mr Francisco Dinis, Mrs Joana Sá Pereira, Mr Miguel Matos and Mr Miguel dos Santos Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u282	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We then generally vote on Bill No. 47 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Approves measures to combat the shortage of teachers and educators in public school. [[When put to the vote, votes were cast against the PS and the PSD in favour of the CFP, BE, NAP and L and abstentions from the CH and IL.]] We will now proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 290 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — establishes compensation mechanisms for teachers displaced from the residence in the performance of their professional exercise. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]] We then vote in general on Law No 291/XV / 1. a (BE) — Programme for attracting and setting teachers in public school. [[When put to the vote, votes were cast against the PS and the PSD in favour of the CFP, BE, NAP and L and abstentions from the CH and IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u283	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u284	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u285	Mr President, it is to inform that the PSD Parliamentary Group will submit a written declaration of vote on the last draft laws.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u286	That'll solve the problem! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u287	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will vote for draft resolution No 223 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Recommends that the Government develop the necessary procedures for students to start the school year of 2022 / 2023 with the allocation of teachers in all disciplines. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH and the NAP and abstentions to the PSD, the IL, the CFP, the BE and the L.]] We proceed with the general vote of Bill No 90 / XV / 1. a (L) — I commend the duty of the institutions to initiate a competitive procedure for the functions performed by the doctors when the contract is concluded. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE, NAP and L and the abstention from the CH.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 95 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Recommends to the Government the creation of municipal energy plans. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CFP were rejected, votes against the CH, the BE and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD, the IL and the L.]] We now vote on Resolution Project No 173 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — By defining a moratorium on deep-sea mining at national and international level, in respect of the precautionary principle. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PAN and L and abstentions against CH and the CFP.]] We then voted on draft resolution No 197 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government value and strengthen the means of nature vigilantes. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary of Bureau Maria da Luz Rosinha will take note of an opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u288	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Coimbra, Local Court of Coimbra — Judge 1, Case No 4376 / 21.8T8CBR, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Monique Quintela, of the PSD, to present a statement as a witness within the framework of the said cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u289	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mr Rui Tavares asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u290	Mr President, for a moment I have forgotten to mention that the Book will present a statement of vote on draft resolution No 173 / XV / 1. the, presented by the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u291	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u292	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u293	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u294	It is to inform the Bureau that I cannot register, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u295	But was the honourable Member not able to register because, being present and trying to register, he failed to do so and he did not hear me ask or was it for any other reason?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u296	Mr President, I had left for one minute and when I returned I could no longer register.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-30.u297	You know there's a tale by Jorge Luis Borges that says that the life of a man, in this case, the life of a person, is defined in an instant. [[Laughing.]] Mrs. Deputy, we'll see about that. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed our work. The next plenary session is on Thursday... [[At this point, some Members have stood up to leave.]] [[Pause.]] That's a little suicidal temptation. It's really to keep me from getting the work done. So I was saying that the next plenary session will take place on Thursday, 6 October, at 3 p.m. The agenda is positively set by the Left Block, focusing on several initiatives to respond to the serious problems in housing credits that the increase in reference interest rates are causing, in particular the Bills Nos 325 / XV / 1. a ( BE), 326 / XV / 1. a ( BE), 327 / XV / 1. a (BE), 328 / XV / 1. a ( BE), 329 / XV / 1. a ( BE), 242 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), 275 / XV / 1. a ( CH), 298 / XV / 1. a ( CH), 299 / XV / 1. a ( CH), 319 / XV / 1. a ( PAN), 320 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) and 334 / XV / 1. a ( L), together with Resolution Projects Nos 258 / XV / 1. a ( L), 259 / XV / 1. a ( L), 260 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) and 261 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ). On 5 October, the date of the commemoration of the implementation of the Republic, the Assembly of the Republic shall be open to the public from the afternoon. Thank you all very much and very good weekend. [[It was 13 hours and 2 minutes.]]
