ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late for everyone. We have quorum and we have all the parliamentary groups represented in the Chamber, and I therefore declare open the sitting. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. The Secretary of the Bureau Maria da Luz Rosinha has the floor for the reading of the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members, I begin by referring to the withdrawal, by the proposer, of Bill No 173 / XV / 1. a ( PAN). I mean now that you have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, several legislative initiatives. He entered the motion of Censorship No. 1 / XV / 1. a ( CH). Lein.o 18 / XV / 1. a ( ALRAA ), which falls to 13. the Commission, in connection with 10. the Commission, and 21 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), which falls to 5. the Commission. Bill No. 186 / XV / 1 also entered. a ( CH ), which falls to 13. the Commission, in connection with 9. a and 12. a Commissions, 207 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 208 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 209 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 210 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 211 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 212 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 213 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which drops to 1. the Commission, and 214 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 9. the Commission. Regiment No 7 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which drops to 1. the Commission, and Draft Deliberation No 5 / XV / 1. a ( PAR). Finally, Resolution Projects Nos 146 / XV / 1 entered. a ( CH ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 147 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 2. the Commission, in connection with 4. a and 11. a Commissions, 148 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 2. the Commission, 149 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 1. the Commission, and 150 / XV / 1. a ( PS ), which drops to 6. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u3	The agenda for today's sitting is from the appraisal of the motion of Censorship No 1 / XV / 1. a (CH) — End the constant deterioration in the credibility of the Government and the chronic impoverishment of Portuguese, following their electronic vote. To present the motion of censure, Mr. André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members and, in particular, Prime Minister : The reason why you are in this House of the Republic today is one and only one. It is because the Government failed in its fundamental mission to restore the dignity of Portugal and to restore what the Portuguese needed for a decent path. The reason why you are in this House of the Republic today is because your ministers, sitting here, did not know how to give a dignified response to a decent people asking for a dignified response at a time of crisis and disorganization of the rule of law and the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u6	Otherwise, let's see the film of what's happened in the last few days and in the last few weeks. Noted of the chaos that existed in the health services, the Prime Minister took refuge abroad, where he was, not to speak of national policy. Yes, that same Prime Minister, who so many other times spoke of national politics abroad, in that case, understood that he should not do so. Here was your Minister of Health, who, called urgently to this Parliament, said absolutely nothing about the chaos we were living in. Called a second time to this House, by another party, has said absolutely nothing again, which is a sort of nothing squared. It is incredible this socialist government: we thought that even greater could only be the size of the government, but, no, the greater is the such undoubtedness of not responding to the Portuguese. When babies died in hospitals, when pregnant women were without care at the door of the services and the doors of the hospitals were closed, the government took refuge in what it best knows how to do: propaganda and absolute lack of response.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u7	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u8	Mr. Minister of Health — present here today under the legislation that still prevails in this country — the surgeries in Portugal are, in some cases, waiting for more than three years. And whoever's watching us should know this. No, this motion of censure is not made for any political agenda, nor for any superfluous reason. [[No, no, no, ……]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u9	It is done for only one reason, which is the chaos that the Portuguese live in the public services in which they believe and the absolute absence of response in the area of health. Stay with these numbers, Mrs. Minister : in Faro, for example, 823 days are expected for surgery, in some cases; in Santarém, 802 ; in Setúbal, 777. And it could go on there, because in Lisbon it's not much better. Together with this and the total lack of response, we knew that the Portuguese Bombers League would interrupt the transport by ambulance, also by failure of the government, on 19, 20, 27 and 28 of this month. See the country that gave us the absolute majority: closed health services, people dying because of lack of care, transportation services of patients stopped due to inefficiencies of this government and a minister who no longer has political capital and only maintains himself for theimosity of the Prime Minister, António Costa. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I could stay around, but we can't stay around. At the time we're talking, 1, 4 million Portuguese don't have a family doctor— 1, 4 million! And the Prime Minister, who is right here in this House, promised in 2015 family doctor for all! Tell me if this is not the responsibility of the government we have and the government that has ruled us with the support of the extreme left over the past six years. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Repeat : 1, 4 million Portuguese without a family doctor! In addition, we have a Minister without any political capital already, despite personal sympathy. It's just an António Costa teimosia that leads Minister Marta Tepido to say that the numbers of maternal mortality are small. Of course, this phrase could, out of context, give action to any less good criticism. I'm not gonna do it, I'm gonna let the Portuguese who are at home do this evaluation. Nothing like a Director-General of Health who, at the peak of the health crisis, tells us that cod to Bras is the real problem and that it cannot get sick in August. It may seem funny to those who are seeing us, but it is not. It is the Socialist Government at its best, appointing those who have to appoint and giving this answer to the Portuguese. [[Congrats from the CH.]] No, dear, this is not a motion of censure for any reason on the agenda, it is the agenda of the Portuguese, of those who know that prices and the cost of living do not stop increasing in this country. Mr. Minister of Finance, who has promised certain accounts and has given us certain accounts: Portugal has today the most expensive gas oil in the world. It's a certain account that few would be able to reach in such a short time. Portugal is paying for the most expensive gas oil in the world and yet we do not stop raising and beating records, even in the face of our European Union partners. Mr. Prime Minister said here, in this House, « put your eyes on Spain ». We put, Mr. Prime Minister, the problem is that we really do. And we know what it costs a Spanish to go to the gas pump and what it's unfortunately cost a Portuguese to go to the gas pump. This has only one name and one responsible: António Costa and the Socialist Government. [[Congrats from the CH.]] That is the one responsible for the prices of petrol and petrol we paid in Portugal. Of course, PS likes to talk about the makeup of the numbers and the makeup of the data and really likes the juggling with which they engage in discussions with the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u10	It's jubilant! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u11	But the truth is that the numbers say this: Portugal has 6. the most expensive electricity rate of the European Union. Make this up there if you want, but explain who's at home and who gets the bill every month and you have to pay it that you can't criticize. On the other hand, if you criticize, it is still unfortunate to do so. This is the country we have and it is the country that this Parliament should not close or hide, because it is the real country that asks us to do something, that we do what we have not done in recent years.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u12	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u13	Yes, the Portuguese industry can no longer stand, the Portuguese families no longer bear the price we are paying — first it was because of the troika, then it was because of the crisis, then it was because of the COVID and now it was because of the war. No, Mr. Prime Minister, it is not the COVID, it is not the war, it is not the troika, nor is it the political crisis. It is you, it is Mr. Prime Minister who is responsible for the state in which Portugal is located! [[Congrats from the CH.]] At the time we speak, the Portuguese accompany us and know that what we ask is no more than justice to whom justice has been promised. They promised farmers 500 million in support, but no one has arrived. Thousands of men and women all over the country help not to continue desertification, help to fight fires, help to keep Portugal alive, but have not received a tot of support from this government. Propaganda? Oh, my God! They get it every day and every hour. We receive propaganda every day and every hour, but no real support for our agriculture. There is nothing more than despair and a dark night that falls on our rural world, and this government does not care at all.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u14	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u15	Yes, Prime Minister, farmers and producers are reaching their limit, with loans and credits that have further increased their liabilities and with the European Union destroying our national production, forcing us to be on our knees in front of the whole world. That is also the responsibility of your and other governments! [[Congrats from the CH.]] We can always say that this motion of censure is not politically timely, because we are putting our Parliament's agenda ahead of the Portuguese agenda. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u16	But when the time came for the 30 January elections, the Portuguese said well what they wanted. [[They said so!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u17	They wanted a party that did not put Parliament's agenda in front of the Portuguese agenda. But, Prime Minister, I remember the following: we are in July and soon the students will return to school, but we have a brutal shortage of teachers who will force them to close schools behind schools by the beginning of September. Teachers and their absence or lack will be the « academic pandemic of the decade», as the teachers' associations have said. We have over 50 000 teachers in a precarious situation. And this government was saying, four years ago, that education would be their passion again. If this is the government's passion, I can't imagine what their hatreds and grudges are. If the government thus left education, we could not imagine better. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Members, Prime Minister, this motion of censure had, so to speak, a final drop: the drop of the minister sitting at the last place of the government bench — I know that he would probably even be in a chair that he is not, but in any other chair — in this sovereignty body for which he is also responsible. And you are here with the strength and dignity that Mr. Prime Minister has left you: "Not one more slip! Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr. Prime Minister, what happened was not a tric between two ministers. What has happened embarrassed this country, has put the country to discuss a plan that did not exist, as if we were all architects of a parliamentary circus, and has put Mr. Prime Minister to disallow a minister, that minister to apologize and say that he was in place, saying 'please don't fire me', replying to Mr. Prime Minister 'it remains, but no more a slip or touch'. And now what we have is a minister who no longer exists and chaos at the airport continues every day. This is what we have here in Parliament! This is what we have here in Parliament! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Yes, Prime Minister, only you and your government are being held responsible for what is happening right now in the country. Attenuated and agreed with the extreme left the extinction of the SEF ( Service of Foreigners and Borders ),... [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] ... made it a battle horse and now has chaos at your gates, even here at the airport of Lisbon. He set foot to destroy the career of hundreds of men and women who had even been praised by various international partners and now we are all paying the price of it. He did it for ideological blindness, did it for fearlessness and inertia, because he did not want to move forward when he had to move forward, discuss the airport when he had to discuss and was just overcome by his former successor in the Socialist Party. It is only that the country is neither for the beer nor for the trick of the Socialist Party. The country wants governance for men and women who have elected a government and who expect that government to function. Yes, Mr. Prime Minister, at the time I speak to you, the airport of Lisbon was considered the worst in the world everywhere. The worst thing in the world! I want those at home to hear right: the worst in the world! I speak of a Prime Minister who was passionate about infrastructure and economic development. The Prime Minister who was going to call us to Europe and the world has called us at the worst airport in the world, according to international rankings. This is what we have and, if the left and the right—or some right that is not right— feel that this is not enough to vote a motion of censure, then we will continue alone, as we must continue, but we will continue confident that this is the way that the Portuguese asked for. For more years, Mr. Prime Minister developed the country as he wanted, in the way he wanted, without serious opposition and capable of facing it. Today, in this plenary, it is noted again that those who have always been with you will be with you and against this motion of censure, but these, Prime Minister, already represent very little of what is the real country. Mr. Prime Minister knows that he has a challenge ahead that he can no longer fulfil. The disorganization and general disorientation of the government are proof of this: the chaos on health, on fuel, at the airport and a minister who no longer exists are the final proof that we needed to say that this government is no longer here to perform functions. Mr President — and I shall finish — Mr Prime Minister and Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot spend the day and the time saying that this government is doing something wrong. We cannot spend the day and the time saying that Minister Pedro Nuno Santos has to be resigned. We cannot spend the day and the time saying that the Minister of Health no longer has political capital. We can't spend the day and the time saying that the country is on the wrong track. But when the time comes, we vote next to the government and not next to the one presenting a motion of censure. We can't do that in Portugal! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u18	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u19	I will conclude, Mr President, by leaving a challenge, and I hope that the right — or the right whore — will be able to understand this. Plato said one day: "The punishment of the good who have no courage to do politics is then to be ruled by the wicked. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PS Protests and PCP Members.]] The punishment on the right that has no courage to face the left is to perpetuate the left in power. They count on them. Don't count on us. [[On your feet, applause from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u20	To open the debate, on behalf of the Government, Mr Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u21	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: Mr André Ventura, it is not by chance, nothing by chance. This motion of censure of the Arrival was presented on the day the PPD / PSD Congress began and marked for the day when an inquiry by the Portuguese Communist Party was scheduled. That is to say, this motion of censure, more than addressed to the government, is an exercise of opportunity in competition with the other opposition parties. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As we have just heard from his voice, he even became a motion of censure on the part of the opposition. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to the government, the arrival uses as an immediate pretext an effectively serious error, but so ephemeral that it had already been resolved on the eve of the motion of censure itself. Let us therefore leave the exercises of political opportunity and focus on what, indeed, interests the Portuguese: the increase in the cost of living and the improvement of the National Health Service ( SNS ). [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] As for these, as is the populists' own, the Arrival cries out a lot, but nothing proposes and nothing solves. This is an essential distinction between us: populists feed on the problems; a responsible government recognizes the problems and acts to solve them. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u22	How old are you?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u23	The problem that, at the moment, the Portuguese are most concerned is the increase in the cost of living, the result of a strong increase in inflation. The causes are known: this is an imported inflation, which is still the result of the pandemic, aggravated by the Russian war on Ukraine and which requires global measures and measures at European Union level that act on the causes of price increases. What has the government done at national level? First, it adopted a set of measures to contain the increase in the final price of both electricity and fuel. As regards electricity, I begin by recalling that Portuguese families have already benefited from the decline in VAT ( value added tax ) from 23 % to 13 % on the basis of consumption, which has increased in the case of large families since March 2021. The results of the first 15 days of implementation of the Iberian Mechanism are already known and we have been able to negotiate with the European Commission on the free market. In every 1 of these 15 days, there was a reduction in the cost of Megawatt hour of at least € 10 and at most € 104, 42, reached precisely today. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On average, in these 15 days, the Iberian Mechanism allowed a saving of 14 % at the cost of electricity.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u24	14%!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u25	In Portugal, only these 15 days, the invoice reduced EUR 27 million by the application of the Iberian Mechanism. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As regards fuels, as a result of the measures we have already taken, the Portuguese pay today, in a deposit of 50 l, less €16 in gasoline and less €14 in gasoline than they would have paid if we had done nothing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u26	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u27	Allow me, ladies and gentlemen. Members, remember that in November 2021, we created the AUTOVoucher, and in January 2022, we suspended the update of the carbon rate. In March, we introduced a mechanism that ensures fiscal neutrality in price increases and strengthened support through the AUTOvoucher.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u28	It's over!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u29	In April we moved forward with the reduction of the tax on oil and energy products ( ISP ) to an amount equivalent to the 10 percentage points reduction in the VAT rate. In Portugal, between October and June, the tax burden on fuels has already fallen 18 percentage points. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today, without all these measures, the Portuguese would pay another 28 cents per litre of gasoline and another 32 cents per litre of gasoline. Secondly, the Government has also acted to alleviate the impact of rising prices on production costs. In the gas intensive consumption industries, such as textiles or ceramics, we are paying 30 % of the increase in gas costs up to a maximum of €400 000 per company. In agriculture and fisheries, in addition to specific measures to subsidize energy costs, the exemption of VAT on fertilizers and rations and an additional amount of EUR 81 million in support is highlighted for the production of pigs, birds, eggs and cow's milk.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u30	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u31	The transport sector, due to its cross-cutting impact on the economy, naturally requires very particular intervention. From then on, the sector companies will benefit from an increase in the IRC (tax on income of the public) in fuel costs throughout this year. With regard to passenger transport undertakings, extraordinary support has been granted totalling EUR 51 million and, from January next year onwards, the professional fuel will also apply to passenger buses. With regard to freight transport, in addition to the reduction of 50 % of the IUC (unique traffic tax) on heavy goods, extraordinary financial support of EUR 54 million was granted. In the course of July and next August, there will be an extraordinary reduction of 17 cents per litre to be paid for the carriage of goods. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Thirdly, the Government has strengthened income policy with extraordinary support for food caba with a total value of EUR 128 million specifically aimed at more than 1 million especially vulnerable families. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, between measures to curb the increase in prices and measures to support families and businesses, the Government has already mobilised the total amount of EUR 1682 million for only 2022. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, regarding the functioning of the National Health Service, the last two years have been a very difficult challenge to their resilience and, at this moment of absolute exception, has demonstrated that they are up to the confidence that the Portuguese put in it. It was also the capacity of the National Health Service that allowed us to recover, already last year, the care activity for the levels of the pre-pandamy period. The National Health Service, from January to May of this year, also ensured more than 230 000 medical consultations in hospitals and more than 33 000 surgeries in the same period of the previous year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I remember, for the most distracted, that this government has reversed the de-investment trend in the National Health Service, with a financial boost between 2015 and this year of 2022, over 40 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u32	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u33	And it was also this government that strengthened human resources in the National Health Service. Today we have more than 24,674 professionals, among doctors, nurses, diagnostic and therapeutic technicians and other professional groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u34	Where are they?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u35	I repeat, we have strengthened SNS' financial resources by more than 40% and increased human resources by more than 20%. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u36	But where? Tell me where! Well, they can hit hands at ease!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u37	But we know it's not enough. We do not deny the difficulties and challenges we face. It's really to face them that we're here. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u38	In addition to more resources, the SNS needs better organization, better management and better conditions for motivation of professionals. The new status of the National Health Service, which we will approve tomorrow in the Council of Ministers, comes to provide structural responses to the problems of the National Health Service. Firstly, the organisational improvement will allow a coordinated and network-operated care response. Secondly, the greater autonomy of management, particularly in the hiring of professionals, will contribute to improving access to health care. Thirdly, there will be a greater motivation for health professionals, with the creation of the full dedication regime and the mechanisms for the establishment of health professionals in geographically lacking areas. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This regulatory framework is complemented by investments in a total of EUR 1240 million to be invested up to 2026 under the RPP ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ). I highlight the hospital reference network, the reorganization of emergencies in the metropolitan areas, the generalization of the Integrated Responsibility Centres in hospitals, but also the construction of 100 new health units – extending their offer, for example, to dental medicine and modernizing their analysis and diagnostic equipment – and the extension of national integrated and palliative care networks. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this motion of censure confirms what we all already knew: the arrive is in political life to make noise, very noise, have stage and media space, but not to solve people's problems and the problems of the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It may even challenge the leadership of an opposition party, it may even win the opportunity race with some opposition party, but what it does is not succeed in reaching a responsible government focused on its mission. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are here to solve problems, to create solutions...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u39	To create problems too!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u40	... and to build a better country, with more growth, fairer and better living conditions for all and for all Portuguese. [[On your feet, applause from the PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u41	Mr Ventura's intervention did not raise any request for clarification. Mr. Prime Minister has already stirred up several. As agreed at the Conference of Leaders, we will proceed with a first round of requests for clarification for the different parliamentary groups, each with five minutes. Mr Prime Minister will then inform how he wishes to respond. In descending order of representation, and taking into account that the PSD will not request clarification in the first round, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u42	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, other members of the Government, Mr. Members, the request for clarification made by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party to the Prime Minister has a central fund and has already been underlined by the Prime Minister in his speech. The first question we want to stress, Prime Minister, is that it was even because of this and these circumstances that the Portuguese trusted in the PS and Prime Minister Antonio Costa, giving him an absolute majority. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This absolute majority is the safe haven of Portuguese for a more stable political life. The PS asked for stability and the Portuguese gave this majority to the Socialist Party to avoid, or not to suffer, the political instability of a dispute on the right by the leadership of the opposition. And that's what Mr. Prime Minister told us about the rostrum. What we have today is just a scenario where the parties to the right, in particular the one of the extreme right, are presented as a challenger of the other opposition party, in a dispute that nothing, nothing, has to do with the problems of the Portuguese. It is an internal dispute about the leadership of the opposition to the right. There's a second look that's central. We are 15 days from the debate of the State of the Nation. We didn't need to, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, of having,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u43	I have to come to work!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u44	... 15 days earlier, a debate on the state of opposition to the right. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I didn't have to! We did not need a debate on the state of opposition! And what brings us today is a debate about who leads the right, about whether Dr. Montenegro is a « Rio 2 » or a « Rio 3 »,... [[That's a laugh from the P.S. deputy João Torres.]] ... if Dr. Montenegro is more « passive » or less « passive », if Dr. Montenegro is in fact the President of the PPD / PSD whom Mr. André Ventura wished, if the President of the PPD / PSD will in fact be that partner whom Mr. André Ventura had, for example, in 2013 when he was still a candidate of the PPD / PSD to the City Hall of Loures. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And it is this dispute that we have here today, with very little adherence to the concrete reality of Portuguese life. Another aspect of a different nature that I would like to add, Mr President, is in order to realize that the motion of censure is this. Let us see: this government has projections from several institutions where, for example, GDP (gross domestic product) grows 6, 3 %, according to the Banco de Portugal, and unemployment is at least 6 %, compared to the last decades. And there has been export growth and foreign investment growth. See: up to taxes we have more tax progressiveity and we expect the reduction of the CFP ( special payment on account ). However, under this circumstances, a motion of censure appears.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u45	You live in Portugal?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u46	It must be said that this Government today has a motion of censure in this House. But they compare these data from the specific lives of Portuguese people with, for example, a gross domestic product which decreases by 1 %, with unemployment reaching almost 18 %, with a huge increase in taxes. They compare the current government, which makes the economy grow and lower unemployment, with that government reducing GDP, increasing unemployment and increasing the tax burden. This government deserved a motion of censure, but at the time it was supported by the President of the PPD/PSD and the current President of the Arrival. This government deserved a motion of censure and did not have it because the priority on the right was to cut, cut, cut. And the right does not live well, democratically, with a government that reduces unemployment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CH protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you cannot bring a motion of censure and you do not want to hear the answer. We're here to answer! And so I address in particular the PSD bench: the motion of censure presented today is truly a motion of censure against the PPD / PSD, so I do not understand why they do not vote against it. You will abstain when this motion of censure is voted against by the PPD / PSD, not against the government! [[P.S.'s applause.]] So, essentially, Mr Prime Minister, I conclude by saying that this is the mandate we have, that of stability, and that stability to the Portuguese we guarantee to continue to solve problems. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u47	For a request for clarification, you have the floor of Mr. André Ventura, from arrive.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u48	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, in your words this motion of censure was presented to condition the Congress of the Democratic Social Party. You know that it was not necessary, Mr. Prime Minister, because, on the day when a motion of censure is presented, in which there is a possibility to question you directly and point out the problems of the country, the main opposition party remains silent in this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u49	No questions asked!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u50	It's a shame! It is a shame that dishonors the opposition and the mandate they have to make opposition in Portugal! [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u51	Are you making any noises now? Now you have to listen! They're gonna have to hold on!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u52	It's a shame! And after all, I was wrong: it is not a « Rio version 2 »... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u53	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are still at the beginning of the debate. I call for silence in the Chamber so that we can hear the speaker. Mr. André Ventura, please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. I was wrong, Prime Minister. In fact, it is not « Rui Rio version 2 », nor version 3, nor version 4. It is even the way of the woe of the right here right in front of us and in front of you, Prime Minister, and that is what is worse in Portugal. [[PSD protests.]] [[PS laughter.]] I cannot stop doing what the PSD does not want to do, which is opposition to the government, because that is why we were elected and that is why the Portuguese have appointed us. Mr. Prime Minister said that his Government is responsible for the largest investment — 40 % investment — in the National Health Service between 2016 and 2022. Mr. Prime Minister, then, it's worse than we thought. If there are still closed services, if there is no money to pay for urgent transport and firefighters, if there is no money to hire, if there are no hospitals open and invested more than 40%, then it is not just incompetence, it is really a public health management disaster! And that is what we have to say here in Parliament! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. Prime Minister said that if it weren't your government, energy would be at higher prices. Mr. Prime Minister, I know the numbers don't beat right with what you like to see, but I have a number to share that is not makeup, as PS likes to come here and test. Portugal is one of the most energy-paid countries in the European Union, I think it will agree with this. In 2021, throughout Europe only Swedish families paid more for natural gas. Explain this to people instead of talking about 40 %, 30 %, 20 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u55	It's "Come Up!"!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u56	Nobody wants to know that! They want to know why the government does not lower taxes on fuel and electricity! That's what it's possible to do. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. Prime Minister, when only Sweden pays more than we pay for natural gas, I think something is not right. I therefore ask Mr Eurico Brillante Dias whether he lives in Portugal or whether he has been elected not by the circle outside Europe, but outside the world! You are not in this world, you must live in another, of course! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr Prime Minister, continuing to do what an opposition must do, which is to ask for answers for what it has to answer, instead of talking, I bring you numbers. According to DECO (Portuguese Consumer Protection Association) — and DECO, which I know, is not linked to the Arrival, and I think we all agree with it — the essential product cabbage has increased 8, 53 %. I'll send this information to you, Prime Minister. Mr Prime Minister — and I hope that the people at home will listen to us, to know what I am talking about — should not go too far to the supermarket, but, when he goes, he has certainly noticed that the fish has increased 15, 8 %, the meat has increased 15, 7 %, the merceries have increased 8, 6 %, the frozen ones have increased 7, 1 %, the dairy have increased 6, 7 % and the fruits and vegetables have increased by 1 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u57	And the answer of the Arrival is a motion of censure and end the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u58	So instead of coming here with propaganda, I could answer this: how do the Portuguese live with one of the lowest wages in Europe and are now paying one of the biggest increases in the cost of living in Europe? That's what I was hoping the government would come here to answer! [[Congrats from the CH.]] You are the Prime Minister of a particular government: it is the first in history in which 20 % of the population lives below the poverty threshold — 20 % of the population! Mr. Prime Minister, 2 million and 300,000 our compatriots live below the poverty threshold. That's what the PS hit palms today, it's about this that the PSD stayed silent and that's what the other parties will support: 2 million and 300,000 people on the poverty line. That's our country. Perhaps, some people present here in the galleries are looking at the country we have and the Prime Minister who does not respond to their problems. I know, Prime Minister, I know I was used to another kind of opposition. But it is not Mr. Prime Minister who decides the opposition, it is the Portuguese. Mr. Prime Minister says: "Is it enough? Enough is making a lot of noise! It takes advantage of the opportunity and rides the waves of society! » Mr. Prime Minister, this is called opposition! I wasn't used to it, but it's called opposition! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr President, I will finish this speech by leaving the PS to its own inconsistencies. The PS says the following: "This motion of censure presents no solutions and brings a portrait that is none of us in this House of the Country. » I have read all the motions of censure that the PS has already presented to this House in recent decades and I ask the country—it is not to the Members, it is to the Country—that you will also read them. Read this brilliant literary work: some with a page, some because of the war in Iraq, or wherever it may be. We have a Prime Minister who thinks that putting the government down because of the Iraq War is legitimate, but because of the costs that the Portuguese are paying every day with their wages, that is, it is no longer legitimate! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. Prime Minister, with us you won't pass. As long as they continue to increase taxes, as long as they continue to laugh at the cost of life of the Portuguese, the cost of energy, as long as they continue to laugh at poverty, the Prime Minister can count on one thing: he will come to this Parliament every year, if necessary, face a motion of censure from the Arrival. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u59	Before giving the floor to the registered Member to make the next request for clarification, I would like to stress the presence of a delegation, which is in the galleries to attend our work, of four officials of the Assembly of the Republic of Mozambique, within the framework of the cooperation agreement between the two Parliaments. I greet the gentlemen. Officials on our behalf. [[General applause.]] You now have the floor, to ask for clarifications, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, if it is of censure to the PS Government that we are talking about today, it is good time to list the role of censures that the Liberal Initiative has been doing since the beginning of the legislature. We find it censorable, for example, that the Minister of Finance has presented a budget reaped from the October Budget last year, with unrealistic inflation scenarios that make it a true income-loss budget for the Portuguese, i.e. an austerity budget. That's censorable! And let me tell you, Prime Minister, that it is also unacceptable to come to the top of the rostrum to be allocating EUR 1682 million of support to the Portuguese to cope with the cost of living, when the same increase in inflation that causes this shortage will give the Government EUR 3 billion of additional revenue, i.e. more than twice as much. [[Applause from the IL.]] It is appropriate to say that Mr. Prime Minister gives with one hand what he takes with both, and that is also censorable!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u62	It is censorable that your Presidency Minister clearly does not have the capacity to manage the PRR, to ensure its implementation and the speed of its execution and to fulfill the promise of transparency which he has already made several times here. Yesterday, we learned that, following decisions on the allocation of more than half of the funds of the Strategic Recapitalization Programme, at this first stage, to a single entity with relations to social communication, a week later, there is no data published on the Transparency portal. That is also censorable, Mrs. Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u63	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u64	It is censorable that the Minister of Internal Administration, today represented by the Secretary of State, has no answer to the very serious problems of the SEF, problems, indeed, generated by a hasty decision of his previous Government. And what did it turn out to be? It turned out that nothing works! Border control does not work, it does not work to assist foreigners living in Portugal, nor does it provide new residence permits. This is censorable! It is censorable that the Minister of Education here present does not present an idea or show any public concern about the real disaster that is looming over the lack of teachers in high school next year. We are going to have 100 000 students, perhaps more, without teachers, or without the full teacher framework, and they are the same students who are already being harmed by delays in learning. We're compromising and mortgageting your future, and that's censorable!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u65	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u66	It is censorable, Mr. Prime Minister, in the other 13 ministries of his government. I haven't talked about them, nor do I have time to mention them all. There is also no need to repeat here for the thousandth time how censorable is the incapacity of the Minister of Health, who, at the end of four years in this function, cannot resolve the chaos installed in health, but throw the blame on everyone who is not her. And there is no need to repeat for the hundredth time how censorable it is that the Prime Minister has decided to publicly humiliate the Minister of Infrastructure and Housing, but after not having had the courage to resign. The Prime Minister is now the most censorable of all, because he should be the first responsible, and he is not; because he should have a hand in his government, and he does not have it; because he should come to the House to answer for the various safeguards, and he does not come. Above all, it assists the impressive daily degradation of services to the public in Portugal as if it were nothing with you. All this is censorable and the Liberal Initiative has consistently done so. We are, in fact, the party most often opposed to the proposals of the Government and the PS. But by definition, the one who opposes the most is the one who makes the most opposition.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u67	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u68	It seems we need to explain to some that censorship is one thing and motion of censure is another. A motion of censure tabled to bring down an absolute majority government out of elections less than six months ago is a favour for the government and the PS. [[Applause from the IL.]] It's the opposite of the opposition, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! It is collaboration, it is giving the government an opportunity to re-registrate and strengthen. That is why the question I am asking you, Prime Minister, is whether you will take advantage of the opportunity in this debate to thank the arrival of the precious help it gives you to keep in power. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u69	To request clarification on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, the absence of government responses to the problems affecting workers, the people and our country only contribute to their worsening. There are deficiencies in the National Health Service. There is a shortage of workers and there is a need for more investment. There is a need for investment in public school and to ensure that all students have all teachers in all disciplines. There are significant delays in the allocation of social benefits for social security. More workers are needed and, once again, the Socialist Party and its Government refused to hire more workers. from the side of arrive, with this motion of censure, is not presented the resolution of any of these problems and the problems that affect workers, because what they propose with the policies they defend would only contribute to their worsening. The answer that is necessary to address these problems is investment and strengthening in public services, with the appreciation of the careers and wages of workers to fix them, either in the National Health Service, or in the hiring of teachers that are needed, or in social security. In particular with regard to health, the response that is necessary to ensure that all users have the right to health does not go through privatization or the transfer of health care to the private groups of the disease business, as defended by the Arrival, the Liberal Initiative or the PSD. To insist on this means diverting public resources that should be invested in the SNS, but it also means denying health care to millions of Portuguese people who would never have access to health unless the SNS existed. On the other hand, the Government continues to refuse the solutions that are necessary to hire and fix health professionals. in doing so, it is complicit to those who intend to dismantle the National Health Service. Mr Prime Minister, why does the Government refuse to value the careers and wages of health workers and other employees of the Public Administration? Why refuse to implement an exclusive dedication scheme? Why refuse to extend the allocation of incentives to fix health professionals in the National Health Service? These are fundamental issues that have not been answered by the government and that are fundamental not only for the allocation of physicians and family nurses for all, but also to ensure that consultations, surgeries and treatments will be carried out in time and time. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u71	To request clarification on behalf of the Left Block, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Prime Minister is a lucky person. I do not know if this is the case in general, but because of your face of relief in the face of this motion of censure, I recognize that there was some luck in the fact that you came forward with a motion of censure which, in fact, is an opposition to play, because you want more to dispute the opposition to the right than to respond to the real problems of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u73	You guys played for six years with the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u74	It's Mr. Prime Minister's luck. It can only be! And the relief, I think, results from the way the arrival doesn't go to the bottom of the country's problems, preferring, first, to play the right. But there are reasons for that. There are things that explain why arriving cannot, for example, talk about the problems of public services. When we see the chaos in hospitals—particularly in the emergencies of obstetrics—we know that the arrival cannot criticize, because the arrival proposes the progressive end of the SNS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u75	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u76	...which is something for which the government is even contributing. In the face of the lack of teachers in public school—and we know that it will be so next September, with tens of thousands of students with disciplines without teachers— what the arrival proposed was the privatization of the entire public school. Therefore, it is unable to criticize the government's disappointment with regard to public school. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's laughs.]] We know that, when there is a brutal increase in the cost of living, which materializes in various aspects, but in particular in fuels, in electricity, in the price of essential goods, the arrival is unable to propose what is obvious to the majority of the population, i.e. that the Government has to guarantee maximum prices of fuels, maximum prices of essential goods.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u77	Ah! Isn't it taxing?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u78	Don't do it! And it is curious that the arrival, like the Government, does not have a single word on this subject for the profits of EDP ( Energies of Portugal ), which in the first three months of this year have fired, or for the profits of Galp, that in the first three months of this year, where fuels are so expensive, have increased 500 %. It is curious that there is nothing to say about this — it did not touch the name'Galp' — but neither did the government. He accepts that there is this sack of Galp, EDP, Continent, Pingo Doce, all of them with profits above the average of the last few years, some beating profit records while the Country impoverishs. The arrival, as well as the right, accepts impoverishment and the government as well. That is why they cannot criticize the true content of this crisis. But there is another matter in which they haven't even touched, which is the question of wages. The right does not advocate the improvement of wages in our country and, curiously, the government does not, because it voted against the interim increase in wages, which would defend both wages and inflation pensions. On this subject, it is clear, therefore, that, in the face of the great problems of the country, there is no motion of censure in this motion any serious content worth discussing. And I'm not going to mention the environmental issues. Two weeks ago, the government was the first to propose to set the goals of climate law, but there's nothing in it, because it doesn't want to know about the environment. We have heard, for example, for so long, the right to say that the Community funds, the PRR, should be for companies, but we note that, in fact, these funds are going for companies, contrary to what the government was saying — for some, very few! Open... Look, Mário Ferreira took half of the Fund of Capitalization and Resilience of the Portuguese Development Bank, but on this matter comes nothing! There are a few who are ruling at the expense of subsidies — the same ones, already now, who have seen the Judicial Police go into their offices this morning — but on this matter nothing says the Arrival, as the Government says nothing. Take it that way. With regard to a fundamental issue leading to a government crisis, the location of the airport is even more curious. Mr. Prime Minister doesn't know where he is, the government doesn't know where he is, because he's dependent on the PSD to see if the PSD knows anything about where the new airport will be, and the arrival only knows he wants to be confused, because also nothing says about the location of that airport. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] It is therefore clear that everything is added and everything gathered together, that there is no censorship of government policy in this motion, because there is no alternative. However, I would like to ask concrete questions about the government's lack of governance in the country, which I think must be taken seriously. There's a feeling of ungovernance with chaos seen in public services. It's not only in health, in obstetrics emergencies, it's in public school, it's in courts, it's in justice. There is a chaos that is installed, because the government has not been able to anticipate the challenges that exist in public services. There is an installed chaos, which causes instability, with the loss of purchasing power and the uncontrolled increase in prices, in particular the prices of essential goods, which are knocking on the door, in particular the poorest. But on this matter the government is slow to do something. Above all, what we see is that there are powerful people who rule at our expense and a government that is pleasing to this country's government. There is an instability that is not only the one that came from the Council of Ministers, it is the one that feels in the country. It is an instability in relation to the future. Mr. Prime Minister said a few months ago that an absolute majority would ensure tranquility, which would eliminate instability. The question I ask you, Prime Minister, is whether this is the stability which promises people, because, in fact, what they feel in their lives, every day, is an unacceptable instability, it is a failure in their lives. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u79	To answer this first block of questions, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, yes, we live in difficult times. No one imagined that, after a pandemic, after an irresponsible political crisis, created, in particular, by the Block of the Left,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u81	Here!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u82	...we still had to face a war scenario in Europe as we had not faced since 1945. No, no one has imagined such difficult times! [[P.S.'s applause.]] But it is not because we have not imagined such difficult times that we regret taking responsibility for what we told the Portuguese that we would do. That is why, even in difficult circumstances, we will fulfill the fundamental promises made to the Portuguese. What we proposed in the Budget, which Mr Dubbed in October, in which he voted against again recently and which finally came into force last Friday, will allow us to pay, with retroactives to January, the extraordinary increase in pensions, with which we had committed ourselves, all pensioners with pensions up to €1068. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yes, we will continue to respond to problems, despite the uncertainties of war and the inflation we are facing. We know that we have a serious problem with teachers and therefore we have already taken the first measures. Tomorrow, we will approve a diploma in the Council of Ministers which allows two measures of the greatest importance.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u83	One more promise!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u84	First, a measure to allow schools to set up all teachers who have been hired to fill hours that were vague and that continue vague; and second, a measure to allow schools to open competitions for full hours in the groups of disciplines and territories where there was a shortage, so that, having a full time, it would be more attractive for teachers to present the contest, and the places filled more quickly. That's what you do when there's a problem, it's dealing with it and looking for solutions to it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Paula Santos, the government does not refuse to value the careers of professionals and much less those of health professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u85	Don't refuse, but don't do it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u86	I shall spare myself remembering what we have done together over these almost six years. at this moment, as we know, we are in negotiation with trade union structures to solve a set of problems in order to value careers. Recently, in my speech, I had the opportunity to point out that, with the approval of the status of the National Health Service tomorrow in the Council of Ministers, we will have answers to several of these questions: we will have answers with full dedication, we will have answers with the creation of the Integrated Responsibility Centres, we will have answers to effectively improve this career. [[PCP protests.]] So, honourable Member, we do not want to be unwilling, we are working, we are negotiating, there is everyone's will to be able to reach a good agreement.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u87	Missing action!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u88	Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo was kind enough to comply with the formality of asking me a question, when he really wanted to come to the final conclusion of his message, which he had for the sake of not this government, but his banking partner, the Arrival. [[IL protests.]] Mr President, I am very sorry, but I do perform my duties and, among my functions, there is no way to mediate the conflict or arbitrate the dispute between the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u89	So answer it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u90	I would, however, like to leave two answers to the honourable Member. First of all, with regard to the airport, I would like you to update your information because, since we have implemented the contingency plan — either with the mobilization of inspectors from the Foreign and Border Service, who were in another activity and were placed at the Lisbon airport, either with the strengthening of the first effectiveness of the PSP (PSP) already trained to carry out the border control mission, or with the investment that was made in the electronic instruments to speed up the entrances — fortunately, we have been reducing the problems in the entrances in the last few weeks and, in particular, since Monday, we have had no problems. The problems that exist are, as you know, those that, on a global scale, airports are facing. As you have been President of Tourism of Portugal and you are well aware of this, you know that when there is a paralysed airport in Paris, there is a chained effect at all airports. And that is what we are watching today, unfortunately, is a chained-up effect at all airports, particularly in Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u91	He's out of the airport!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u92	It has nothing to do with the SEF!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u93	Mr. André Ventura, first of all, and as regards poverty, social transfers, those transfers which you tend to criticise,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u94	Subsidies? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u95	...because he says they're...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u96	Subsidies to laziness? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u97	... subsidies to laziness,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u98	And it's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u99	... that are for those people who pretend to be poor, but have Mercedes and BMW at the door,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u100	After all, you know? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u101	... allow the poverty rate in Portugal not to be 40 %, but to be significantly lower. And I have to tell you the following: between 2015 and 2019, the poverty risk rate, after social transfers, dropped from 19 % to 16 %, 2 %. It is obvious that in the face of the crisis that hit the country in 2020 and in 2021, as a result of the pandemic, this rate of risk of poverty increased by 2020 and surely also increased by 2021.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u102	So, is that true? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u103	This means that, past the pandemic, we have to resume the trajectory we had between 2015 and 2019, and this trajectory is simple: we will continue to govern and adopt the policies we adopted between 2015 and 2019. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Deputies, yes, you are right, we need better organization, better management and better conditions to motivate health professionals. Now, no doubt, the numbers are very clear: the SNS budget has increased by 40 % and the number of SNS professionals has increased by 20 %. And I say in detail: for doctors, there has been an increase of 20, 15 % since 2015 ; for nurses, there has been an increase of 24, 82 % since 2015 ; for higher diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, there has been an increase of 23, 34 % since 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u104	Where did they go? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u105	Yes, we have come to increase and we must continue to organize better, to manage better, to motivate more professionals to continue to provide better service to the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to inflation, Mr President, firstly, rigour. I do not discuss whether politics is to ride waves or respect people and solve their problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u106	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u107	what people at home need is not an elevator to what they already know is their life,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u108	...people don't need me to go to the supermarket to know how much they pay. Now, the people who choose us, you know what they're asking us to do? It's not that we're your elevator,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u109	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u110	... they ask us to help solve the problems they are suffering. And you speak, you speak, you speak, you speak, but you don't have a very small proposal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u111	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u112	Mr Deputy, see the difference well: we may not agree with the Left Block proposals or with the proposals of the Portuguese Communist Party, but they have proposals, they have ideas, they have things to put on the table. Do you have any proposals, any ideas, anything to put on the table? Zero! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]] The honourable Member says that we have the most expensive gas prices in the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u113	Of the most expensive!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u114	I am aware that there are 12 countries where the price is higher than ours. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Regarding natural gas, he said it was only Sweden. Well, let's see in addition to Sweden, Denmark, the Netherlands, Spain, Greece, Italy, France, Ireland, several other countries are above us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u115	It's mixing everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u116	But, Mr, there is a reality: in the last 12 months inflation has risen 4, 1 %. And I want to tell you more, Mr President: if you want to ride the wave of inflation, the bad news for the Portuguese is that, unfortunately, we will continue to have inflation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u117	That's what you knew!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u118	We're going to continue to have inflation, and you know why? Because the end of inflation is not decreed.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u119	But you work!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u120	You said it was temporary!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u121	And, unfortunately, as the fundamental causes of this inflation are external—because they have to do with the breakdown of supply chains, which started in the pandemic and which war has aggravated, with a war Russia has developed against Ukraine and which significantly increased the costs of energy, which we import, the costs of cereals, which we import, the costs of fertilizers, which we import, and the costs of sunflower oil, which we import—yes, prices will continue to rise. What do we have to do with this? What we have to do is to beat ourselves, externally, so that we can adopt the global measures that must be adopted and do, also internally, what we can do. And what can we do? What we've done. We have reduced the tax burden on fuels by 18 percentage points from October to now. If we had not adopted the set of measures we adopted, Mr. Member, today, the Portuguese would be paying more than 14 € for a deposit of 50 l of petrol and 16 € for a deposit of 50 l of petrol. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member says that they are still paying a lot. Oh, because they're paying a lot! Yeah, they are! I am the last to say otherwise, but what I say is this: if we were limited to the speech of the honourable Member, nothing would have improved in the lives of the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u122	You have to listen! We're in democracy!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u123	However, because we are not limited to talking and, in the face of problems, we are looking for solutions, the Portuguese pay less than €14 in gasoline and €16 in gasoline than they would have paid if we had done nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u124	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u125	That is the difference between us and the honourable Member: the honourable Member speaks, we do! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Eurico Brilliant Days, yes, it is true that this motion of censure is not truly a censorship to the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u126	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u127	As we saw, it was a motion of censure against the opposition, it was a competition of opposition to know who said the worst of the government. Our championship is not to say the worst, it is to do the best, and we know that, working, we will do the better. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u128	We now move on to the second round of requests for clarification to the Prime Minister and I begin by giving the floor to Mrs Maria Antonio Almeida Santos of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, we live in a difficult global environment, and nobody denies it. If we added another political crisis, and it was the second in a short time, it would be an incomprehensible irresponsibility. We have never denied the existence of complex, serious and even prolonged situations, but, when it is, Mrs and Mrs. Members, it becomes more evident the importance of the National Health Service, which, after all, protects us against corporate or guided interests even, and mainly, by financial objectives. The structural problems of the National Health Service have already been identified, are old, are complex and have a response to the Electoral Programme and the Socialist Party's Government Programme, having been covered by the majority of Portuguese, and, as Mr. Prime Minister said — and we all agree — it is for them that we work. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The strategy and vision for the future is in progress, whether you want it or not. The revaluation of careers, the measures to create greater attractiveness to fix health professionals in the National Health Service proceed, as mentioned here, in negotiations with the unions. The situation in the emergency of obstetrics is serious. It is serious, but it cannot be compared or confused with a situation of chaos in general emergencies. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, immediate action has already been taken: the constitution of the Committee on Follow-up to the Response... [[PSD and CH protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if you don't want to listen, it's because you don't want to know what's going on to answer the problems. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH Member Protests Bruno Nunes.]] Mr. Member, don't gesticulate, just listen, if you want. If you don't want to, you're right not to listen!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u130	And it's also in my gesticulate right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u131	I said that immediate measures have already been taken: the constitution of the Committee on Follow-up to the Response to Obstetrics / Gynecology and Birth Block ; in the National Health Service portal will be, or is already, available information for all pregnant women, with due anticipation, on the places where they can be addressed — we do not scare people, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! —... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u132	The information is 'closed'! How wonderful! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u133	... the reference network of hospitals, maintaining the safety of responses and in proximity, which, together with contingency plans and all health professionals, allows to ensure that all Portuguese can continue to rely on the National Health Service. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot allow a system with indicators of perinatal and neonatal mortality — let us be strict! — that they are an example and that we want to continue to improve, because the National Health Service — I remember! — it is heritage of all, although not all defend it,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u134	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u135	...of those who need it and those who need it. That's why, sirs. Members, we appeal to all socio-political actors, to professional orders, to give intelligent collaboration in this spirit of demanding complementarity in which the defense of the National Health Service must be based. In view of what we live, the motion of censure is extemporaneous and, I think, it is even self-punishing. Being against always does not help to solve problems. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, I would like you to repeat, if you could, what the next steps to diminish the recovery of the National Health Service's assistance capacity,... [[PSD and CH protests.]] ...that is in great recovery, despite all the problems, that we do not deny. We do not deny the evidence, we have the ability to solve the problems, and that is why we were elected. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u136	To request clarification on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u137	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, at the moment, in addition to several other problems, the country has a great problem, which are the options of the government. For the workers, for the people, for the general population, it is all increasing. It increases everything except wages and pensions. They increase the prices of food, electricity, fuel, gas, household income, but do not increase wages and pensions. And when the government refuses to update wages and pensions, what it imposes is a real cut. in an income of €800, with an inflation of 8, 7 %, we are talking about a real loss in the order of €70. But for the economic groups, and this is what the government here does not say, it has been quite different. Small increases in the minimum wage, however insufficient, are compensated by the State. And now, taking advantage of the context of war and sanctions, these groups have actually seen their profits increase, and not little is enough. Galp multiplies profits, the large distribution — Jerome Martins, Sonae — where we make purchases, sees profits shoot, EDP keeps profits high. How, then, is it explained that the Government's response to the question of fuels is to maintain the profit margins intact, limiting itself to lowering the ISP, which is not reflected in prices? How is it possible that the Government does not react to the loss of purchasing power and the depreciation of wages and continues to refuse the general valuation of wages, in particular through collective bargaining, the increase in minimum wage, the revision of the single remuneration table? How is it that, with the recommendations of the IMF ( International Monetary Fund ), wants to punish pensions again and increase the age of access to early retirement, the Government still says that it is considering all options, especially in this context? How are reformed people even considered to be even more penalized? Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the government, people need increases and it's for now, it's for now, because it's now that they drop accounts to pay, it's now that bills and income have to be paid, it's no further. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u138	For the last request for clarification to the Prime Minister, Mrs Joana Sá Pereira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u139	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on this motion of censure has proved to us from the outset its absolute irr reproachability. Three months have passed, I repeat, three months since the beginning of the Legislature and the taking up of this government, and, indeed, this is the second motion of censure in less than one year. The last one, that everyone here remembers, was answered by the Portuguese and ended with a stable and strengthened majority of the Socialist Party, who now has the responsibility to continue moving forward. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And in these three months we have already had the opportunity to give this signal to the Portuguese, in particular to the younger ones, who are always the most affected by crises. Between the most qualified generation and the most accomplished generation ever, as Mr. Prime Minister says, we have a path, with enormous challenges, to go through. That is what we did in the last State budget, which came into force eight days ago, I repeat, which came into force eight days ago...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u140	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u141	...and that, despite the votes against the right, allowed us to continue to move forward. It allowed us to advance in the value of the scholarships of the master's students, triple it; to advance in support of the displaced scholarship students, with the mobility allowance; to advance in the creation of the guarantee for childhood, investing the perpetuation of the cycle of family poverty; to advance in the extension and extension of the youth IRS, from three to five years, also including green receipts. But the path we are taking for the younger ones is not exclusive to the budgetary period. Even last week, we generally agreed here in this Parliament on the reform of professional orders, ensuring more freedom in access to professions and better opportunities for young people.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u142	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u143	It has merited only one vote against the Arrival, and the immediate conclusion we draw is that, the worst for young people, the better for the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u144	You should be ashamed to talk to the young people!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u145	We will continue this path as well next Friday, with the Dignified Work Agenda, an instrument that will strengthen the fight against young precariousness. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in all these measures there is a sense of responsibility of the social state. We know that it is a strange concept to a certain right, that looks at all this as a burden and as a expense, always hard to understand what public investment is really. It is that, when the right hand reminds us of the need to contain public investment in health, education and social security, what is really telling us is that, in our society, each one must walk for himself, competing with the other, to see who can get there. No, this is not the vision of the Socialist Party for the society in which we live! [[P.S.'s applause.]] And we well know, and we do not forget, what this PSD — which does not give both hands to arrive, but gives one, because it has already announced its abstention in voting this motion of censure —...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u146	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u147	... with old ideas, the same old ideas, you have to offer the younger ones. Yes, the way we are now making is to seek to guarantee all the conditions for any young person to have the opportunity to involve their transformative energy here in our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But there is still much to do, Prime Minister. They are particularly young people who today need to strengthen responses not only in job creation, in incentives for recruitment, but also in the public housing supply. That is why we are here — the Government and Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party — determined to continue our work of commitment and commitment to the Portuguese. And so, Mr. Prime Minister, we don't even have time to waste. And what we want to know is what your Government's commitment is to ensure that Portuguese youth can actually live and realize in our country and trust, as in the last crisis, that we will not leave anyone behind. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u148	I now give the floor to reply to these requests for clarification to Mr Prime Minister. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u149	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your questions. First of all, Mrs Alma Rivera, we are indeed facing a crisis of inflation, which is serious and which has been increasing. Over the last 12 months, we had an inflation of 4, 1 % and in recent months inflation has already reached 8 %. The major engine of this inflation is even the energy cost-centred inflation, which rose by 37 %. So we have been focused on tackling the root problem and trying to dominate this uncontrolled rise of prices. It is difficult, because there are no magic solutions, but that is why, as a whole, we have already mobilised EUR 1682 million. We have price control measures, measures to prevent prices from contaminating the costs of production and direct support to families and businesses that consume more energy intensively. I'm afraid we're mobilized so we can be together...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u150	We're not here anymore!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u151	...to face this crisis situation. The national minimum wage, Mrs Deputy, as you know, rose 6 % this year. With regard to pensions, in addition to their update, there is an extraordinary increase,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u152	That has already been overcome!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u153	... that will be paid to all beneficiaries of social security already on Friday, and will receive retroactive up to 70 €—which is the extraordinary increase that they will have — and the beneficiaries of the General Pension Fund will receive-CL- it on 17 June. In addition, we have sought to create extraordinary support for the food cabaz, which has a global value of EUR 128 million in order to mitigate the effect of rising prices for families. This brings together all the income policy measures that we have now adopted and which remain, because none of these measures have been withdrawn in this crisis. The school textbooks continue to be free of charge, the PART(Tax Reduction Support Programme in Public Transport) continues to have a large reduction in the amount of public transport, we continue to have the social energy tariff and we will also have, from September, in all daycares agreed with social security, free for children who will enter the first year. That's how we actually support families, looking for better conditions...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u154	They're poorer!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u155	...to be able to overcome and overcome this very difficult period that we are living. Mrs Maria Antonio Almeida Santos, first of all, we are indeed experiencing a difficult reality, particularly in the specialties in which there are few medical specialists. We need to increase the training of doctors, we need to increase the training of specialists,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u156	And not just! It's transversal!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u157	... but we must also have the notion of what the activity of the National Health Service means. For example, in the services of gynecology and obstetrics, which have now been with significant difficulties,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u158	Now? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u159	Since 2018!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u160	... and every day we heard on television « this has closed », « this only opens tomorrow», what happens? Has the National Health Service not provided these services? Now, between June 1 and June 26, only on these 26 days, in episodes of gynecology and obstetric emergencies, were attended at the National Health Service 27,625 people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u161	And how many have been stopped being cared for? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u162	There were 4456 births in this period. I asked a question, which was the crucial question: how many of these emergencies and how many of these deliveries required the user to be transferred from hospital to hospital? I am not going to say the value, because neither can I believe in this value, and therefore I await the conclusion of the information that the General Inspection of Health Activities will give, in order to know how many of these cases effectively required the user to be transferred from a hospital to another hospital. What are the following steps? Look, I'm just telling you what's gonna happen tomorrow. Tomorrow, the Council of Ministers will approve two fundamental diplomas: one is the mental health law; another, which I have already mentioned, is the new status of the National Health Service. And the new status of the National Health Service is absolutely decisive, because, in addition to continuing to strengthen means, we must effectively have better organization, better management, more motivation capacity of professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u163	They're gonna have more privates!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u164	In fact, if we strengthened the budget by 40%, if we already increase human resources in the National Health Service by 20%, there is an essential component, which is to improve organisation and management. That is why the status of the National Health Service is absolutely crucial to ensure that there is a management that ensures coordination between the different care activities, that there is effective networking—and therefore it is essential that the reform of the reference network, provided for in the PRR, in particular the emergencies—that the emergencies are reformed in the two metropolitan areas, Lisbon and Porto, but also that health establishments, particularly in terms of staff recruitment, are given greater autonomy, in order to improve access, and it is necessary to create the capacity of greater motivation of professionals, either through the full dedication regime or through the mechanisms for the establishment of professionals in the most deprived areas. Alongside these legislative interventions, we have a huge investment in the Recovery and Resilience Plan, of about EUR 1240 million to invest in the National Health Service. Only tomorrow will we open a set of competitions for the construction of 58 of the new 100 health units; we will open competition for the rehabilitation of 194, of a total of 360, primary health care facilities, which will be re-qualified until 2026 ; we will open the contest for the 34 mobile units, fundamental to ensure proximity health in the territories of low density; and we will also launch the contest, tomorrow too, for the acquisition of 700 more cars, to ensure health care to the household, fundamental to serve our population better. [[P.S.'s applause.]] After tomorrow... [[CH's laughs.]] ...will a miracle happen? No, no, no. The contests are open, they take their time and they can have vicissitudes, because we are in a rule of law...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u165	They're going to be empty!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u166	Will the competitions be empty, the car acquisition contests, Member? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u167	No, the doctors!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u168	Mr President, will competitions for the rehabilitation of health centres be empty? Will the competitions for the construction of health centres be empty? No, they're not going to be empty...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u169	Let's see! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u170	...and, above all, will be done. That is the big difference, sir! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u171	Let's see! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u172	So what we have is, step by step, to continue to identify the problems and to solve each of them. We've heard a lot of threats: it was the banks that were going to fail, it was the devil that was coming there, it was the pandemic that was going to kill us all, now it's the war... we know that there are threats and the Portuguese already know that there are threats! What the Portuguese want is not politicians who know what they already know, what the Portuguese want is politicians who solve their problems, because that is why they choose politicians! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Joana Sá Pereira, that is why we cannot in fact lose the focus of the challenge which is surely the greatest that our society has: to correspond to the extraordinary effort that Portuguese families and young people have made for, in two decades, practically transform our country radically. We have spent time listening to the right to slaughter ourselves with the idea that some countries have only entered the European Union in 2004 and have grown faster than Portugal from 2004 to here. But there is one thing about which the right has never been questioned: why did this happen? [[Protests by Mr Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]] And the right is not questioned, because the right revenue for growth is this: lower taxes, contain wages and the miracle of growth flourishing happens! Today, we all know, and the right also truly knows that, in the global economy, a European country has only a competitive economy and companies that gain productivity and are able to export and gain market share, if the country, companies and society invest in two fundamental factors: the qualification of their human resources and the capacity for innovation in the products and services they provide.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u173	And yet they are overcome!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u174	This is the key and that is why qualifications are absolutely decisive. The great difference between Portugal and those countries that grew so rapidly from 2004 to now is that in 2004 75% of the population of these countries had at least secondary education; unfortunately, in 2004 only 25% of the Portuguese population had secondary education. But the country has, fortunately, moved from 2004 to here. And the year 2004 is well before this government or any government I have presided over. What Portuguese society has achieved, as a whole, and which we must be able to value, was to make that difference, which was 25 % to 75 %, today, from 58 % to 80 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But the biggest difference, Mrs Deputies, is that, in your generation, the difference is no longer from 58 % to 85 %. We are on this level when we include generations like mine and those between mine and yours, and also those above mine, now! But when we look at your generation, the difference, fortunately, is only 83 % to 86 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u175	But they're getting bad at it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u176	And with higher education its generation is already ahead of those countries that entered 2004. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why we have in fact to create conditions for this generation to be the most accomplished ever in our country. And for this to happen there are three fundamental factors to take into account. Firstly, we must continue to invest in the qualification of new generations. And I will repeat the times that the right does not want to hear: the largest structural reform that the country has had in recent decades was even the reduction in early school dropout between 2015 and this year from 13% to less than 6%. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly, we must continue to create conditions so that younger people can have access to higher education and develop all the cycles they want in higher education. That is why the State budget, which came into force last Friday, will allow the school social action to also finance the master's scholarships for the year, so that younger people can have an even higher degree in their training, in higher education. The second absolutely essential dimension for the empowerment of young people is decent work. It is therefore very important for the other great structural reform that we are going to make, that of the diploma that this House is going to discuss next Friday morning — and that it would be discussing tomorrow, not the agenda of this motion of censure —... [[Mr André Ventura's laughs.]] ...which is the dignified work agenda. This diploma, particularly for young people, comes to combat precariousness, to dignify wages, working conditions and to give hope that they will indeed be entitled to fair remuneration, in particular by encouraging collective bargaining. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In addition to qualification and decent work, an absolutely essential third valence is that of housing. Today, everyone talks about housing, but in 2015, who said that a new generation of housing policies was necessary was even the Socialist Party. In 2015, there were those who believed that the liberalisation of the lease market that they had made would miraculously result by this invisible hand of the market in accessible housing for everyone. But what the market has obviously shown is that, in a very scarce way, as is the good of housing, or there is a reinforcement of the public supply or there is no housing accessible to anyone, neither to the middle class, nor to anyone! This new generation of policies, which we have consolidated in the first Basic Housing Law that we approved here, at the initiative of our comrade — friend Helena Roseta — and that we have come to develop, has been reflected in programs such as 1. law, affordable rent and now in the construction of public housing supply, with strong funding in the Recovery and Resilience Plan. The right says that the Recovery and Resilience Plan is only for the State, but the truth is that the money that is placed at the IHRU (Instituto da Habitação e da Rehabitação Urbana, I.P. ) it is not for the IHRU to consume on paper, telephones or employees, it is for the IHRU to hire with the municipalities to build 1250 million euros of housing for the next generations, build, rehabilitate or acquire. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u177	The worst thing is to receive! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u178	This means, Mrs Deputies, that this is the great challenge we have: to be able to respond to the legitimate aspirations and legitimate demands of your generation, that is, to the future of our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u179	We are now moving to the stage of intervention. For an intervention on behalf of the PSD, I give the floor to Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u180	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : As they realized, the PSD did not want to contribute to the freight, the huge freight, which the arrival today gave to the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u181	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u182	So I'm here to tell you about another opposition, serious, credible and alternative, because we have no doubt that our opponent is the PS. [[PSD applause.]] More: our ambition is not to lead opposition; our ambition is to lead governance, and there is a sea that separates us! [[PSD applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this government deserves censorship, and it deserves it because it does not govern. The Socialist Party has been in power for seven consecutive years, but this government, only at the end of five months, already appears to be tired and wear unexpected. If in the last seven years Portugal has impoverished itself with the joy and optimism of the socialists, the fact is that we continue to stand back and reach the tail of Europe. We have no doubt: the Portuguese live worse...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u183	Worse? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u184	...and, unlike what they sell us in pink paintings and graphics, the pit is growing. Portugal is already 21. the country, 27, in terms of per capita income, and this year we will move to 22. the seven years later, of promise, to live essentially of the measures and support reached by the European Commission or the European Central Bank, Portugal went to vote last January, and the Socialist Party asked for a majority and had a majority.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u185	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u186	I would even say that the PS had the chance to be lucky, because, in addition to winning elections, it still had to run with an absolute majority that never imagined it could be possible. With this unexpected burden on your back, I would like to remind you of the maximum "care with what you dream can happen"! This time, there were no excuses, not on the left or on the right. this time, the PS had even to study, decide and act. In a word, this time, the PS had really to rule. It all started wrong in the constitution of the new government, because it frightened the lack of freshness, the repetition of worn-out figures and without public recognition and the dubious ability to operate reforms, but serious reforms, to which Portugal aspires year after year and is delayed. It is difficult to call this busy government 'new', where half of the faces are the same, and it becomes more difficult to believe in the old socialist jargon: 'now it is'. Five months ago, what do we have? A government already tired, without a flame or a reformist spirit, apparently spent, without even having patience to deal with the problems and with the opposition itself, whose questions anger and deserve no answer. The government doesn't rule. We see the shameful chaos at airports, which has not begun now, and the government has done nothing. See the novel of the end of the Foreign and Border Service, in which the government moves back, without having an end in sight. And the health sector, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God! And the health sector, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God! Where to start? Oh, my God! The emergencies, the closures, the surgeries, the lack of doctors, nurses and auxiliary personnel... and the missing family doctors? Oh, my God! The government explains, studies, postpones, but doesn't solve, nor does firefighters pay! And the SIRESP ( Integrated System of Emergency and Security Networks in Portugal )? Oh, my God! What can the Portuguese wait for a very demanding summer, when the climate of tranquility in the security forces and civil protection does not abound? Oh, my God! As far as fuel is concerned, we have been taxed for years by a tax that has been lyingly sold to us as extraordinary, but the government insists on maintaining it, regardless of the growing suffocation that fuel prices mean to families and economic agents. Do you remember free day care? Oh, my God! After all, it's only for less than half of our children. With the PS, nothing looks like it. Are we going to talk about the education sector? Oh, my God! Is anyone convinced that the education system has improved in recent years, with the abused teachers, with lack of human resources and with 30,000 students without the teachers needed? Oh, my God! Does anyone really know what the government is doing to solve the problem, which is going to get worse by September? Oh, my God! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u187	Have we changed the subject? Oh, my God! When does the scandal of requests for reform end, which remain unanswered for months and months, and leave those who need the most in a situation of enormous fragility? Oh, my God! Is it worth talking about TAP (Portuguese Air Transport)? We know who spends and we know who pays, that is, those of the custom: the Portuguese all. The PRR, the Recovery and Resilience Plan, the famous « bazouca », has now begun and is already going wrong: there is little monitoring and the deadline for compliance is sliding for non-compliance. [[PSD applause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it could be good to be here all afternoon to list topics, but there is a common element to all issues and to all areas: the government does not govern. after just five months, there is a party end attitude of a crippled government, unable to react and operate changes, or solve problems, which makes it difficult to the role of oppositions, whose main function is to monitor the action of the government, without any action. He still wants us to ask a lot of questions! Open... In justice, defence, education, agriculture, economics and science, does anyone know who the ministers are and what they are doing? But there's more! In contrast to passive ministers, we have the hyperactive minister Pedro Nuno Santos. And what we saw last week is unpublished and tarnishes the prestige and credibility of the government, dragging together the two main protagonists of this unusual. The Minister faced the Prime Minister, and repeatedly rejected the President of the Republic, he has said that he would not have to know in advance, being visible the embarrassment of Mr President of the Republic, took the leader of the opposition and, not content, did not resign and drag himself to an awkward television "forgive me" under the excuse of the slight "mistake of communication". Mrs. Members, if the unbelievable betrayal becomes referred to as a « lamentable communication error », we will be able to avoid numerous divorces in Portugal. [[Congratulations and laughter from the PSD.]] [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] to the Portuguese, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you have forgotten to apologize, but it remains, the Minister is in office! Our Prime Minister is no better off in this photograph. If you knew what was being prepared, then Portugal is a circus and the clowns are not us. But even though it was « the last to know», as the people say, it was with wicked demands that allowed the Minister, all day and all night, to set aside himself in justifications for newspapers and television, which of them is the most obsessive, in the end, and with the Minister without any margin of retreat, to order the revocation of the office. With an immediate call, our Prime Minister would have stopped the trial early and, at the very least, the Secretary of State was resigning himself by mistake of communication with the Minister, but Antonio Costa wanted more. However, after the revocation of the office and the affirmation of the Prime Minister's authority, the Minister also withdrew and, after all, the Minister stays and even says they are friends. [[PSD laughter.]] On the way, it was possible to see the enthusiasm of the socialist leaders to defend the proposal of the two airports that they had never heard and that, after all, 24 hours later, they already considered that it could even wait. Anyway! Open... [[PSD applause.]] For now, our government has become the PS recreation. As the supreme irony, the fact remains that Minister Pedro Nuno Santos has to yield at once in this debate to Ana Catarina Mendes, therefore, as a misbehavior, he has to "stay in the jar" and wait for his turn. [[PSD, CH and IL rice.]] With this factual frame, little remains to be said about the proposed new airport. We knew — if we were to stay! — that, in the absence of an airport, the Socialist Minister goes ahead with two, the cost of which he does not know, because the studies will still be carried out by LNEC ( National Civil Engineering Laboratory ).
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u188	Is this the Counter-Information or what is this? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u189	It is hardly clear how the public contest remains, so necessary and now apparently cancelled. Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, the government deserves censure, but what this Parliament does not deserve or needs is that it is playing with the regiment figures to obscur the PSD Congress and that it is handing over the motion of censure. [[PSD applause.]] [[CH protests.]] This initiative of the Arrival, pretending to cause the government to fall, was a cargo to the PS. It gives media stage, but does not qualify or credibility the Arrival, which goes to the point of infantilizing this Assembly, convoking, one day to the other, parliamentary days...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u190	And you can't? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u191	... to prevent the normal election of the new PSD direction. [[PSD applause.]] [[CH's laughs.]] It could even be fun if it was funny. The PSD is the largest party in the opposition, with 77 Members and with responsibility — we assume! — to offer a reformist alternative and a future to Portugal. We know what we are and we know what we are not. For us, saying bad isn't enough, it's not enough. We are not even the champions of the motions of censure. We will not ask for the resignation of ministers every week.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u192	We know that!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u193	We are not proud of the word 'disgrace'...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u194	We know that too!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u195	...we will not take forge attitudes in any parliamentary bullfight. [[PSD applause.]] Mr André Ventura, the PSD is not pressureable or impressive. Finally, the government deserves censorship, as censorship deserves to arrive, for this initiative. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u196	For an intervention, Mr Porfirio Silva, from the PS, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u197	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and Mr. Members of the Government : In appearance today we are debating a motion of censure to the Government, presented by a party that, a short time ago, had an electoral programme pointing to the extinction of the SNS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u198	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u199	... for the extinction of public school and which was against the social state in general.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u200	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u201	Then he hid this program and went into cosmetics, trying to hide his true nature. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] It is in this game of deceptions that this motion of censure arises, which is, in fact, a mere artifact. This motion does not pass from a stone that an extremist party shoots against the PSD. If the PSD were not outstanding from the extreme right, conditioned by the extreme right, it would not spend the time looking at the rearviewer and, indeed, had strategic autonomy, would vote against this artifact, without hesitation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There are, of course, problems to be solved in the country. We never said it's all done, despite how much we've done. We want to continue the reformist action that characterizes us, but it would be useful to know whether the PSD will stand on the Miguelist right—which is, from D. Miguel, a traulite, violent and antidemocratic right—or look to the future. It is because the PSD likes to talk about reforms, but when you see a reform ahead of you, you don't recognize it. When we approved the extension of compulsory education for 12 years, the PSD abstained. He didn't realize it was a real structural reform. When he went through the government, the PSD tried to destroy adult education. Now, everyone applauds the work of Mariano Gago, who put science at the heart of the country's development, but at the time, on the right, it was said that there were more doctors. Now, with the war, the PSD has discovered the theme of energy autonomy—see there! — but they did not realize this when they were against wagering in renewable energy and against electric mobility in public transport and the tariff reduction plan.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u202	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u203	Since this is not cutting wages or pensions, as this is not cutting social rights, the PSD does not recognize that these are structural transformation reforms. It is that not being reformist suddenly, serious reforms take time, require strategy, concertation. There are no serious reforms with single acts, there is a need for persistence. The PSD voted against the SNS and then tried to revoke it. In that case too, they did not see a structural reform. The PS has not been created, the PS has been continuously building the SNS, improving it, with the reforms of primary health care, with the National Network of Integrated Continued Care, with the Health 24 line, with the bet on home hospitalization, with the new Health Bases Act and so many other advances. And let's go on. Neither did the pandemic cause us to give up, nor did those who wanted to catch the pandemic ride make us give up. We know that there are always new challenges and we will face them. But for what we need to do, this motion of censure does not contribute at all. In the face of such unnecessarily unnecessaryness, anyone who wants to continue with reforms of progress can only vote against and those who do not know how to vote against it is because he does not know what the country needs and what it needs to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u204	For an intervention, Mr Ventura has now given the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u205	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a bit of a time in Parliament, because we had the Member representative of the major opposition party saying that he did not want to ask questions to the government, because he does not want to send a freight to the government. I mean, the PSD doesn't want to ask questions so I don't have to take the freight to hear the answer. Mr. PSD Members, I understand that they do not want to pay any more charges to the government. They've been freighting the government for six years and they've done more to the socialist government! [[Congrats from the CH.]] In fact, it was not enough to approve the Government's supplementary budget. Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, it was the PSD. It was the PSD that approved the Government's supplementary budget, which gave EUR 900 million for the TAP and only EUR 500 million for the National Health Service. That was the budget approved by the PSD! But let me also tell you this, honourable Member: if you take a freight it is to ask questions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u206	You'll talk to yourself!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u207	... now I understand why António Costa won in 2015, because it won in 2019 and why it won, with an absolute majority, in 2022. In fact, the opposition is so weak that it only takes the majority of the socialist government. We understand that perfectly! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira, come to the point of saying that the arrival marks his parliamentary days because of the election of the PSD bench, I think we must have some insight into where we are, Mr. So I know that maybe the PSD has not yet recovered from the absolute majority that the PS had on January 30 and that the Arrival has become the third political force, but today, unfortunately, we see why: because, called here the government, one of the greatest opposition parties, instead of speaking, remains silent. They want the Portuguese at home to applaud... The speaker applauded. ... and say: « Excellent opposition! "?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u208	All right! All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u209	Don't! Bad opposition! Silence and complicity with the socialist government.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u210	All right! All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u211	That's what they've done. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I would also like to say to you, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, that being a collaboration with the Government to do so - to come here to answer questions, which was not enough for the PS to meet to hear you, after the elections, to go with the Liberal Initiative. We stayed out, which is a good sign of complacency between you two. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u212	So, Mr. Cotrim de Figueiredo, there is only one party to the right that is opposition: it is enough! You are vested in the Socialist Party government, that's what it is! [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Protests by Members of the IL.]] Mr President, I now understand why the 15-year debates have ended. It is that, in fact, the PSD, when the government comes here, does not want to ask questions. In fact, you now realize why you don't want the government in 15 days: if it comes from 15 days in 15 days, you don't have anything to say! [[Mr Pedro Pinto's laughs.]] In fact, it is understood that they do not want the 15-year debates to move forward. Mr Prime Minister has to win today a new title in the whole country: he will be the "Minister of tomorrows who will sing". I will tell you why: all your speeches — all today! — they said: 'Tomorrow'. 'Tomorrow we will solve the problems with the basic law of mental health' ; 'Tomorrow, in the Council of Ministers, we will do this and that' ; 'Tomorrow, we will do anything else'. [[PS protests.]] However, the Portuguese are today, with what it costs to go to the grocery store, what it costs to go to the gas pump...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u213	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u214	... which costs you to pay for life in Portugal, which costs you to pay for life in cities like Lisbon, Porto and Braga. It's today, it's not tomorrow! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. Prime Minister said, to see if you can open the news tonight, that the arrival speaks a lot, a lot, a lot, but you don't have a single proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u215	And it's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u216	So said Mr. Prime Minister. I have some bad news for you, Prime Minister: the arrival was the second party of this House that most proposed for the State budget. The second most proposed party! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u217	Headlines! Headlines!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u218	With more than 300 proposals—with more than 300! — where the direct discount on the petrol pump was included — how your Spanish partner is doing, with much better results than ours,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u219	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u220	... where we included, for example, support for firefighters so that we could have sick transport cars and where it happened we did not have the shame of the former President of the Assembly of the Republic being receiving a vital pension as firefighters earn 300 € per month in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]] That's the greatest shame, Prime Minister! This is a Prime Minister who comes to the Assembly of the Republic and says: "It's all right. If it weren't for us, this would be worse. So, my friends, you see that I am the best here to walk – the last Coca-Cola of this desert – which is Portugal. It is because, he says, « if it were not the government, gas would be much more expensive » ; « if it were not the government, the merceries had much higher prices » ; if it was not Antonio Costa, we paid much more gas oil ; if it was not Antonio Costa, there was no sun, the Rock Beach did not exist and Caparica did not sell dogs or probably beer ; if it was not Antonio Costa, we did not have this country in this fantastic weather because there is here the alpha and the omega of Portuguese politics ». [[Repeals of CH Deputies.]] It's just not like that, Prime Minister! Mr. Prime Minister is the leader of a government which, last month, has reduced the food cabaz to thousands of deprived families in this country, and that is why he has to take responsibility. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u221	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u222	And, yes, Mr. Prime Minister, there are many subsidies to laziness in Portugal. And you know who knows that? Entrepreneurs who want people to work,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u223	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u224	...the entrepreneurs who want to work and have to import, in that country which Mr. Prime Minister dreamed of, a country full of immigrants and no Portuguese working. This country that dreamed is not the one we want;...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u225	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u226	...we want a country where there is work, where there is dignity and where there is wages. It is not the country of low wages, which leads the Portuguese to emigrate and immigrants to Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u227	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u228	This is the difference from the model of the Arrival to the model of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u229	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u230	But, Mr President, we must once again acknowledge that this is the Prime Minister of Auditors, indeed certain, so certain that we have the greatest public debt in our history. That's a very true account, because there's no way to counter it. Mr. Finance Minister laughs at himself and says: "Why did you bring this issue now? It's an unpleasant thing. » But it is the truth. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's laughs.]] Mr. Prime Minister, we have the biggest public debt in history, and Mr. Prime Minister comes here to say that if it weren't the PS, we were much worse. If it wasn't the PS? Oh, my God! If the PS hadn't taken us to bankruptcy three times, we would be much better in Portugal! I repeat, we were much better! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Therefore, Mr. Prime Minister may invent the numbers you want. I'll send you this, to you directly,... The speaker displayed a document with graphics. ... so that you can see the real numbers of how much Portuguese pay for electricity and natural gas to the European Union. It is these data that should worry you, rather than come here making numbers with the complacency of some opposition parties. But we cannot fail to recognize any truth in what has been said by other parties here. They said: « This motion of censure of the Arrival presents no solutions. It is a motion that aims to destroy and does not aim to bring solutions to the country. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr President, because I like to see what others have done at other times, I have had the concern of going to see and here I have the text of a motion of censure presented by the PS. He's here. The speaker displayed the document he mentioned. Are you seeing the PS motion of censure? What solutions does it bring? He's here! This is a motion of censure from the Socialist Party. [[PS protests.]] Do you know why the PS wanted to put the government down? I'm going to say, 'cause I thought it was a shame the war in Iraq. I wanted to put the government down because of that! [[Protests and laughter from PS and BE.]] CH's contraprotests and applause.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u231	Shame! Shame! Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u232	This is a subject that, in fact, people at home...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u233	It's all nervous!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u234	I repeat, in fact, it is a subject on which people at home said: “That’s it! That's it! Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u235	Of course I do!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u236	“ We are concerned about the war in Iraq! The price of the goods? Oh, no! The gas oil on the bomb? Ah, there's no problem about that! Are wages getting lower and lower? No problem! Are our pensioners in misery? No problem! The war in Iraq? As for the war in Iraq, we must move forward! Do not keep on seeking. ” Or, even better: as for the Left Block, which came here to talk about the motion of the Arrival, I also have that of the Block here. The speaker displayed the document he mentioned. It is another same, but it was for a more interesting reason: it was because of the extraordinary constitutional review. [[Rice from CH Member Diogo Pacheco de Amorim.]] In fact, I know this is what interests people. People, when they go to bed at night, think like this: « How will the process of extraordinary constitutional review be, that the Left Block is so critical? Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Mr Pedro Pinto's laughs.]] [[Protests from BE Pedro Filipe Soares.]] Mr President, a bit of decency, because, when you talk about the motion of the Arrival, you are here, which is a shame and only serves to fill paper, it is no use for anything else. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr President, it is very hard for me to hear here the extreme left outraged with the motion that has no solutions, with the Reach for Health programme, with the Arrival for Education programme and with the Reach programme that destroys public services. My dear ones, who approved six Socialist Budgets was not the Arrival, were the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It was you who approved these budgets that led to the destruction of Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u237	It's fake! It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u238	So, yes, Mr. Prime Minister, yes, Mr. Members of the Left Block and the PCP,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u239	False!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u240	... in the 300 proposals, the arrival proposed a family doctor for all, with the vote against the left benches; the arrival proposed hiring professionals, with the veto of the Socialist Party;...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u241	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u242	...the office proposed auditing the shameful accounts of our administration, where they are all—or many—trying to bring money home, with the veto of the Socialist Party. [[PS protests.]] This is the truth and it has to be said as it is. The truth! We wanted an audit of the accounts that were made and carried out in governments. Your party, Prime Minister, has vetoed all the proposals of the Arrival in this House. So, Prime Minister, be serious, and when you come to this House say that you have no proposals, remember: 302 proposals, all of them vetted by your Socialist Party. No, Mr. Prime Minister, the difference is not being uplifting of the people or bringing here what the people think. Too many years have passed — too many years! — with a house closed about itself, without listening to those who were out there suffering, paying taxes to support the institutions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u243	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u244	...have spent too many years without the Portuguese having a voice in here. Now, those who are watching us know that there is someone who faces the Socialist Party and who faces the government and knows that they can count on us for this task, whether PS likes or doesn't like, whether PSD likes or doesn't like, even if no other party likes. We depend only on one entity: it is called a Portuguese people. And we're very proud of that! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u245	For an intervention, Mrs Susana Amador of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u246	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discussed a motion of destructive censorship that, within minutes of your announcement, showed serving for nothing, having no practical effect but for a measurement of forces to the right, and does not appear to be coincidence immediately following the PSD Congress. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, to be opposed is not to make noise; to be opposed is to have, in fact, concrete proposals that solve the problems of the Portuguese. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u247	at this moment, it is central to talk about instruments and reforms that are under way and that are essential to solve the major strategic challenges and respond to the problems of Portuguese and Portuguese. There are those who seek the noise of emptiness, censoring and dividing the Portuguese. We here, on this bench, are looking for the substance of politics, advancing, solving and uniting all Portuguese! [[P.S.'s applause.]] In the coming years Portugal will receive more than EUR 50 billion in European funds, including the EUR 23 billion in Portugal 2030 and EUR 16 billion in the Recovery and Resilience Programme. We all know, Prime Minister, the importance of the implementation and implementation of these programmes, and they also depend on the well-being of Portuguese and Portuguese society. A substantial part of the payments made so far relate to family support projects, support to companies for winding up contracts, support to universities to increase the supply of training in the fields of science and technology, as well as payments for the purchase of goods and services, in particular through public tenders in infrastructure projects. Yes, we do! Yeah, we're working on it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u248	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u249	In Portugal, cohesion policies have brought significant gains in key areas: reducing school dropouts, the number of people with higher education and the resumption of gross domestic product growth per capita. Yes, we evolved, yes, we did! That is why it is so important to deepen the reform of decentralization, where we have already universalized competences in 17 areas of intervention, since January 2021, and more recently in the areas of education and health, which are vital — we know they are vital! — for the well-being of the populations and that the proximity vector adds in efficiency. Yes, we must continue to decentralise and combat centralism. Everyone here is against centralism. It is essential that this reform should have the support, in particular, of the main opposition party, with whom we made a political agreement on 18 April 2018. That is why it is so important, Mr Prime Minister, Dear Members and Members, that we continue the ongoing dialogue and commitment with the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ( ANMP ), adjusting values and parameters in education and health as well as in other transversal areas, an agreement that is imminent given the convergence reached, according to the President of ANMP, and which reveals « a very large will of the government to negotiate and advance », as the president of the PSD, Hélder Silva. In fact, it is vital to pursue the path of consolidation and deepen this reform, for the benefit of all Portuguese, for the development of Portugal, and we hope that the PSD is part of the solution, that is what the PSD's authorships also wanted and said yesterday at the ANMP General Council. In conclusion, I wanted to say that people are the center of our political action. It is the people and their well-being who guide this reform and all the reforms that we are implementing, these reforms that they deserve, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, an enormous motion of absolute confidence by the Portuguese on January 30, which legitimized the way forward and once again chose the path of equality, cohesion and, above all, stability. That's what we'll give them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[At the moment, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u250	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all. I also congratulate the Prime Minister and the other members of the Government. Continuing our agenda, for an intervention, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u251	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present: Today we are facing a motion that is, in fact, an absolutely ineffective motion, and your proposer knows that it will be rejected. Will the debate of this motion of censure of the Arrival bring us a family doctor to all people who do not have it? No, he's not. Will it allow a more appropriate choice of the location of the new airport? This too will not give any answer, and even less to environmental concerns. Will it contribute to reducing food or electricity prices? Not either. Will this debate reduce the provision of credit to households? The answer, as we well know, is « no». The NAP does not align with propaganda blows, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u252	We know that!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u253	... hit those coincidents with the PSD Congress, and don't go into a race to see who's actually the best in circuses or hangovers for televisions. We are here to move our causes forward and bring answers to the concerns of the Portuguese, and this motion is a true tiger of paper.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u254	They're there to support the PS! That's why they're gonna disappear.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u255	In fact, it's a tiger that seems to close his teeth, but in the end it's going to leave everything in the same or even worse. It is that, Mr André Ventura, in fact, what you and your party have come here to do was a favor to Antonio Costa, was to reinforce the wall of the absolute majority with a rejection. More, this motion of censure is pure makeup that comes to cover the void of the proposals of the Arrival itself,... [[CH protests.]] ... that, when appropriate, proposals are brought here to pursue minorities, but when we bring here proposals which are not in the sphere of political showoff, particularly in environmental matters, there is nothing to say. [[CH protests.]] He's got nothing to say! This is the second motion brought against the Government in this House in less than four months and, when we have recent data that tell us that we need structural reforms for the country, that we need structural debates, the Arrival, which has a parliamentary group and which could bring other legislative figures to the debate, chooses not to do so. The way to solve these problems, in the view of the NAP, is not the only way to discuss people or who is the holder of certain political folders, but rather a change of policies that aim to preserve the structural reforms that the country has to do, preserve nature, ensure that great public works are done. Here you are, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in particular, Mr Prime Minister, there is a path which has not been taken and from which the government itself has resigned. The NAP does not agree and sees with concern the disappointment the government has shown. An absolute majority Government has the opportunity and responsibility to ensure that, with the stability it has requested and achieved, it promotes the necessary and structural reforms that the country needs to get out of the stagnation in which it is located. And this can't be a missed opportunity. But the solution of these problems goes through constructive debate, not motions of absolutely ineffective censorship. The solution goes through a government that, leaving the top of its absolute majority, is more dialogueative with all the opposition and does not just try to extend the hand to the PSD in the usual bipartisanization that, year after year, has been doing. The NAP does not align, as you said, with mere political figures. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are the constructive debate, the search for solutions to problems and not the trivialization of motions of censure. That is why the NAP will vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u256	For an intervention, Mrs Jamila Madeira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u257	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Eight months ago we were here to vote on the State budget for 2022 and the oppositions decided to give the country a political crisis that the country did not want, that it did not need and that led us to the elections in January this year. Eight months after this moment of promotion of political instability in our country, eight months after this lead, the opposition seeks to promote another moment of instability. Wisely, last January, the Portuguese people gave an absolute majority to the Socialist Party,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u258	... so that, at this moment, this struggle for the leadership of the opposition does not produce greater damage to the lives of the Portuguese and does not make us all pay for what is only another media eagerness among those who dispute the leadership of the opposition. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We all know from our own experience at many moments in our democratic life that the focus of instability is not good indicators for the financial markets and at the moment we need good indicators for the financial markets. And we also know that what financial markets do not like is also not good for families or businesses. That is why we wonder if the opposition, in this struggle of media protagonistism, has forgotten the interests of the country, has in fact forgotten what makes a difference in the lives of businesses and families. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u259	We also know with pride that we have known results of consolidating the trajectory of the right accounts over the past six years, that we are converging with the European Union and are gradually reducing public debt. Now, as in the pandemic, we are certain that it is through a responsible and intelligent fiscal consolidation strategy that we have achieved very significant savings with interest payments — only in 2021, it was about EUR 3 billion compared to 2015 — and that these savings allow us to realize real public policies of support to people. The current scenario is already of particular uncertainty seen from any corner of the globe and we do not anticipate that the instability that oppositions seek to incorporate can bring anything positive to the life of families.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u260	And you can suspend Parliament!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u261	We know that on the part of the one who presents today a motion of censure, we have no proposals and we also know that on the side of the future parliamentary leader of the PSD — whether or not here with a living voice — the reduction of public debt, according to his doctrine, could have been more marked. But we could not see, in any of the interventions that have been made here, whether it would be safeguarding companies and families, as the PS government did during the pandemic, or whether it would, perhaps, through the famous PSD recipe, begin to cut disease subsidies, unemployment allowances, pensions and support to businesses and families when they needed it most.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u262	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u263	What we know is that the country needs a government of the strong Socialist Party, aware that the normalization of monetary policy and the rise of interest rates are difficult to manage, and we also know that with the PS Government no one will be left behind. So with what we have here today, we will be able to overcome these problems once again and ensure convergence, growth and support for all, without ever leaving anyone behind. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u264	Mr Pedro Frazão, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u265	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government and Members of the Commission. Members: I have to bring back here the issue of health, because this government deserves censorship. And it deserves censorship because it has incompetent rulers and ministers. We have just heard a number of negationist interventions from what is happening on the ground. And they are also negationists of the several hundred projects that arrived in this House to strengthen the National Health Service. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u266	But who is on the ground, the Portuguese, knows well that he is suffering and knows well who defends them. And whoever defends them is the party arrives. Mr. Minister of Health, committees and surveys can be very good for the media response. But tell me one thing: four weeks ago the Queen's Caldas baby died. What is the conclusion? Has there ever been any conclusion of this investigation? In Loures, a wife went to visit her husband and found out he was in the morgue two days ago. Are there any clear responsibilities on this situation? The Intensive Care Unit of Santa Maria closed for respiratory patients. One more commission! There are waiting lists, death peaks, cancer patients with very urgent surgeries, who see them completely delayed. This is nothing more than a third-world national health system. We have heard Mrs Maria Antonio Almeida Santos talk about the maternal mortality rate. Because he is a negationist, because he knows that according to DGS ( Directorate-General for Health ) numbers we are already going with 20, 1 deaths per 100,000 births. Mrs. Member, for more than 38 years there was no such high number. Mr. Prime Minister, let me tell you that you are wrong: there are enough doctors in Portugal. In fact, Portugal is 8. the country of the world with more doctors and more per capita faculties of the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ). [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u267	What happens is that you and your government get doctors to run seven feet away from the National Health Service for the private. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I was also very concerned with your announcement that tomorrow the Council of Ministers will approve the SNS status. Mr. Prime Minister, according to statements to the agency Lusa recently, Mr. Bastonário of the Order of Doctors does not know the final document. It does not seem to me that this is a good way of governing, or, then, it is more of a kind of communication, which is already so useful and useful in this government. Mr. Minister of Health, the productivity of the SNS fell 30 %, although thousands of employees who came from PPPs (public-private partnerships) had actually entered and were automatically absorbed by public hospitals. You know what? This low productivity means only one thing—and here I will have to agree with the words of Mr. President of the Republic, Prof. Marcelo, who said that only when an incompetent woman reaches the top of the Armed Forces is that there must be a true gender equality— does it seem that in the Ministry of Health we already have a true gender equality, because in fact we have an incompetent woman in front of the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u268	The honourable Member is being incorrect!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u269	And this is an alleged incompetence, because the Minister herself announced that, in order to carry out her own duties, she will have to hire a CEO (executive chief officer). Now, Minister, if you are going to have to hire a CEO to perform your own duties, it is better to resign, you are not doing anything here. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. Prime Minister, he also spoke of the 100 health centers he promises to build. But, Prime Minister, we have a problem here. First, the health centres suffer from a huge drain of family doctors and it seems that even the contest itself for the filling up of vacancies of family doctors, which was now launched, with three weeks' delay, for doctors specialists— according to today's news, too—is desert. In addition, only 49 municipalities accepted the transfer of competences — words from the Minister at the hearing of the last week. How will 100 new health centres be built if the authorities are not accepting to manage them and if they do not have doctors to fill them? It's propaganda, more promises that won't be fulfilled. In addition, we want to know if these promises are, again, like the promises you made in 2015, in which you beat your hand in your chest and said that all Portuguese would have a family doctor. Mr. Prime Minister, the PS and its government are in fact the great coves of the SNS. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u270	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u271	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is the chaga of populism,... [[Look!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u272	... to devalue words, political gestures, parliamentary acts themselves. A motion of censure is not an opportunity to put the neighbor on the side, to go after last week's comment programmes or to try — in fact, unsuccessful — to occupy the next weekend. A motion of censure is a serious instrument for a serious end,... [[Congrats from PS Members.]] [[CH protests.]] ... and it means saying one of two things—and, despite four interventions, the author of the motion of censure said none of them— either that he has an alternative majority of government or that he wants the country to go to elections. If you do not say any of these things, a motion of censure presented in this way only serves to discredit motions of censure and that is why we vote. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] It is also good that, outside this Parliament, it is known that the author of the motion of censure had initiated a debate on the rights of children, about a recent tragedy. Well, you saw a more brilliant object in front of you and you decided to give up the debate on children's rights, because suddenly, in your indecision between going after sensationalist newspapers or weekend programs, you won the second hypothesis. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u273	It's a little like a kid in front of a console that has a lot of buttons. We need to load them all. If there is one who says 'danger', it is the first one in which it has to load. [[CH protests.]] Only that the danger, the real danger of populism, is not in the opportunism of populists, which is already well known, is in the complacency of the majority and traditional politicians. And that is why we must preserve ourselves, because the tacticalism of a motion of censure such as this is to anticipate the possibility of a political crisis and an inability to govern.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u274	Look at the weather!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u275	Mr President, then I ask the presidency to tell you that the author of the motion of censure has just exceeded his time. Let's do the math at the end. What is needed is that the political majority — and the government in particular — should pay attention to the answer to the question: how does Portugal, in the next decade, have to reinvent itself? It's a question you've been asked here. And if a motion of futile censorship like this does not serve to give that answer, the debate of the State of the Nation will have to serve within 15 days. It cannot be a mere point of view, it must be on what is your plan and our mission for the decade. The challenge remains. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] [[Stand up!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u276	They're not as choreographed as yours yet! [[What about Joacine?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u277	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful that they create conditions for us to continue to listen to the speakers. For an intervention, Mr João Torres of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u278	Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr Prime Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Eight months after the political crisis caused by the lead of the State budget for 2022, 157 days after the holding of legislative elections and 97 days since the possession of the XXIII Constitutional Government, we are here today in the Assembly of the Republic to discuss this motion of censure. But why? Truly, why was this motion presented? Has the Government left with the broad electoral support expressed on 30 January with the referral from the right to a long winter of opposition? Has the government failed to meet its electoral programme or to adhere faithfully to the commitments it has made before the Portuguese? Has the Government ceased to respond firmly to the international environment or to pursue with ambition the reforms that have been proposed? No, not at all! As it was evident this afternoon, what motivates this irresponsible act is a fun maneuver: the "bottom-down", the petty tactic, the low politics! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Mr Pedro Pinto's laughs.]] This motion of censure, as was evident this afternoon, does not intend to overthrow the government, but, yes, to bring about the greatest party in the opposition. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] Madam President, the championship for the leadership of the right is on the line, between the motion of censure and its creative party, today with a new leadership out of the worst archives of the last few decades. [[Mr André Ventura's laughs.]] But there are no illusions: PSD and Arrival may not find themselves today in the same direction of vote, but the discussion between them, unfortunately, more like a family fight. It is important to underline what we said in the PS during the campaign for legislative elections: the PS remains the only party with a public service, responsible and Europeanist vocation that clearly states it. with us, with the PS, the extreme right does not pass, the extreme right will not pass. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH's laughs.]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is the PS, and only the PS, who can continue to respond to the desires and ambitions of the Portuguese, with action in combating this imported inflationist crisis, in defending the public interest and affirming the State as a haven of shelter and a port of security, in good and bad times; in valuing the social state, a fundamental condition for freedom and equality in which we believe, in particular in health, ensuring better service to the citizens and the structural resolution of the problems of the National Health Service ; in the transformation of our economy, with more jobs and better wages, with less precariousness, with competitiveness and leadership in digital transition and in green transition;... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u279	How? Say how!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u280	...and in combating inequalities, because solidarity, cohesion and social justice are not negotiable for us. And if there is a shocking fact of politics over the past few years and it is entirely true, even with the new leadership of the PSD, that the right has abandoned the entire proposal against poverty and social exclusion in our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is a transforming government. It is a government that has responded, answered and will continue to respond to the problems of the country, a reformist government, because that is the mandate it has received from the Portuguese in the last legislative elections. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the return to political instability, a continuous postponement of the solutions to the problems of the country, what has the right, in practice, to offer, if this motion of censure is approved? The radicalism of the extreme right? [[CH protests.]] The Permanent Marketing Status of the Liberal Initiative? [[IL Members' laughter.]] Or have you seen the new leadership of the PSD? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u281	He speaks very loudly! Looks like it's enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u282	It's something we really don't understand yet. It would be impossible to trust these oppositions, invested in the spirit of « the worse, the better», when there is so much to do to improve the lives of Portuguese. As much as they insist, as much as they try, the Socialist Party will not abandon its focus on continuing to improve the lives of the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, this motion of censure does not pass a test to the largest party in the opposition, just out of the congress, which left this avid to exhibit a new season of the Account - as it was - but in bad - as if the Portuguese had no memory of the government which impoverished them, who pushed them into immigration and who wanted to cut the pension payments. Cosmetic episodes are announced, but from the younger to the older, everyone remembers what they did in the past government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the majority of the Socialist Party guarantees the strength, energy and determination to serve the country, to do truly more and better for the Portuguese. This motion of censure, however, has this great virtue: to remind the Portuguese people that it is with the PS that we can continue to move forward and that we will continue to move forward! In recent years, we have proven that we have followed and succeeded together. In the PS, we believe and trust in the future of Portugal. Portugal and the Portuguese know that they can count on us and that the government will not fail in its mission to pull the country forward, while the oppositions pull it back. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u283	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Paula Cardoso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u284	H.E. Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr. Members: After this would yell, I hope there is a little more serenity during my speech, even to the mouth of Mr. Prime Minister, who does not like noise or screaming. [[Congratulations and laughter from the PSD.]] [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u285	I would begin by saying that there are governments and governments. There are governments that do not govern and certainly there are those who govern: governments that are strategic, reformist, weighted, effective. There are even shadow governments. And then there is the Government in the shadow of the majority — vulgar, banana — which is the Government of the Socialist Party: inactive, tired, turned off, in flight mode,... [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u286	... sees the grave problems that the country is going through, such as the collapse of public services, with lightness and even with defacedness. However, this government still has another feature that leads me to the nickname - it, without hesitation, of Government-surprise. Let us see: the government was surprised by the lack of obstetricians, by the urgencys closed, but this was only because of the bridges and holidays and on the following Monday everything would be solved. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u287	He was surprised by the chaos at airports, but that is not a cause for concern either—it is happening elsewhere in Europe and it is seen that even in America. This government was very surprised by inflation, but it was the fault of the war in Ukraine. The Portuguese, in turn, have also been surprised, from the very beginning, when they will supply fuel at any place in this country and see the price of gasoline and gasoline. The Portuguese also have a huge surprise when, in the supermarket, they face the price of meat, fish, bread — finally, of all essential goods.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u288	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u289	But surprise, surprise, is when a mother thinks she'll have her baby in Aveiro, but not after all! It could be in the port, maybe in Coimbra, or you know where! [[PSD applause.]] But then, when the older son arrives at school, he is also surprised, because, after all, he has no teacher. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the replies and announcements that this Government has given have also been surprising: for chaos at airports, contingency plans, but chaos persists and the plan does not exist; for health chaos, the Minister has hastened to create monitoring committees, working groups, mission units, etc. etc. etc. Problem solved? Don't! An increasing problem, extended to several districts of the country and cross-sectional to several specialties. To eliminate the lack of doctors, to promote partnerships with the social and private sector? Nothing! In education, are there policies that really regulate effective recruitment and mobility of teaching staff? Nothing! And there are so many nothings of this government, camouflaged with advertisements and promises—we are still here today watching the dozens of announcements that Mr. Prime Minister has made—that never happen! But in the voice of the government, it never happens, not because of it, but because of various things: the troika, the crisis, the war in Ukraine, the pandemic and, above all, I repeat, above all, the PSD. [[Protests of PS Members.]] Never, but never because of the responsibility of the Government of the Socialist Party. But here the surprises don't stay here—or maybe stay. Has anyone ever been surprised by the pompous announcement of Minister Pedro Nuno Santos, even in the form of a decree, that he would go ahead with the construction, not of one, but of two airports? Only Antonio Costa may have been puzzled. But it was a short time ago, because it quickly realized that what happened was a insignificant lack of communication, without any relevance and that it alone does not compromise the survival of the Minister of Infrastructure. Anyone believe this? No, no, no. What is regrettable is that we live a time of total government failure — in health, in education, in fuel, in justice, among others — and the same, insensitive to the difficulties that Portuguese are going through, having fun with internal power games, disputes, iron arms to see who else commands. And Portugal assists the game between these two players, in an incessant struggle to see who loses the most 'lives' and to know which of them first listens to the game over signal. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] Or even worse! Repeat, or even worse! This sad episode made it visible and clear that António Costa is ruling for a European office, Pedro Nuno Santos is ruling to be leader of the Socialist Party and it became even more clear that both are not ruling for the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]] The problem is that there is a sick Portugal, but no doctor; an Portugal of empty pockets, but without its income being accompanied by the inflation rate. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] And all these leaflets are summed up in a communication error. Are you convinced? Not me. But the communication failures of this government have been many. There must have been a failure of communication when Antonio Costa announced that all Portuguese would have a family doctor; it was another failure of communication to promise the Portuguese that, one day, their income would increase and, the next day, after all, it would decrease — but the blame is for inflation. On the other hand, has anyone been surprised, too, by the motion of censure? This motion of censure reflects a blind will to appear, consolidated in a chronic anti-system-free attitude. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] Point your finger and charge, but it does not present solutions and knows that the only consequence is merely media. The policies and measures of this government are more than censorable, but this government has been in office for just over 100 days and at a time when it is constitutionally impossible to dissolve Parliament. Therefore, the consequences of this motion are null and void. This motion serves only one purpose: to lead a populist number, to kill the hunger of stage and newspaper covers. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the House of Democracy is a serious house. He must act according to his responsibilities in the fulfilment of the greatest mission of representing the Portuguese, always governing his conduct for the highest level of dignity. At no time can the PSD allow this House to be instrumentalized or used ad hoc to respond to whims in exchange for another strawberry. We condemn the lightness with which it is placed and has the means available to achieve purposes that are far from fulfilling the national interest. Neither do we accept that they instrumentalize us, PSD. We understand well the temptation to go to the PSD, we understand well because they delivered the motion on the first day of our Congress, but the PSD will not give way to personal and egocentric vanity or sterile populism, nor will it follow this irresponsible way of acting and doing politics. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u290	What about the Azores? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u291	This motion, which is known to be useless — the fact that its proposer does not ignore — only serves to increase the egocentric and media drift of its proposer and, after all, to try to get the holophotes to look at themselves, to the detriment of a united, reinvigorated and confident PSD. Therefore, to the PSD, none of this surprises: neither the overthrow of this government, nor its complete inaction, nor its closing eyes on people and their problems. We are also not surprised by the motion of censure of the Arrival, used not to effectively solve difficulties of the Portuguese, but for the media satisfaction of its authors. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the greatest surprise of all I have kept her to the end. [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u292	And this happened to the Socialist Party in the January elections, when he realized he had won an absolute majority. They are still digesting this surprise, which forces them to work without excuses, which forces them to promote the necessary reforms, but to which they are avid. [[PSD applause.]] To govern is to decide, to act, to plan, to equip the country with the necessary instruments to ensure the improvement of the living conditions of the Portuguese. We regret that the Portuguese continue to see their problems solved and realize that, between the announcements of one and the screams of another, their lives continue to be the same misery as ever. But the Socialist Party wanted power and has power. He wanted to be a government and he's a government. What the Socialist Party really does not want to govern. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u293	And you never get there again!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u294	Mr Bruno Nunes has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u295	Mr President, I welcome all those present, welcoming the fact that the Prime Minister has returned. If not, we have brought the government back to the 15-year debates, because we will have this debate again in 15 days.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u296	There's someone!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u297	We obviously have to talk about what's going on here. It was surreal what we just heard. Are you associated with populists, fascists and extremists in the Azores? It is only that if they are, eventually, the government can fall! You have to be careful about these accusations and how they stand! [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS's laughter and applause.]] Is this or isn't this a country playing? Oh, my God! Is it or isn't it? When the only thing the PSD is worried about is coming to attack the Arrival, my question is whether I have been listening to the Luís Montenegro PSD, the Rui Rio PSD, the Rabbit Step PSD or, as happened in the State Budget, the Madeira Budget or the Azores. And I also doubt whether, on the PS side, I am listening to the PS of Antonio Costa, the PS of Pedro Nuno Santos or the PS of Sergio Sousa Pinto, who was the first to present a motion of censure to this government. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Of them you don't want to talk! This is the country where we heard the left very well aware of our motion of censure, because you think we should not use the tools that we have at our disposal, but that you go to the street and put your union units in front of Parliament because of the increase of 0, 9 % when you are approving State budgets with increases of 0, 3 %! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u298	Six! Six Budgets!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u299	This is the populist left that, in here, does absolutely nothing more. But it's Ventura's fault! It is the fault of Ventura that, on Monday, gas oil increases, it is the fault of Ventura that can not be paired in Portugal on Sunday,... [[Repeals of CH Deputies.]] ... is the fault of Ventura everything that happens, as we have 0, 9 % increase but 8 % inflation rate! But we're going further. In the meantime, we have Mr. President of the Republic bathing in Copacabana to play with all this, and the Portuguese to bank! And by the way, we have a soundbite, which is from Mr. Minister of Territorial Cohesion, which is here beside me and which I thought was escaping. In the midst of the whole decentralization, of the chaos that you are experiencing, Mr Prime Minister should explain that yesterday the National Association of Municipalities was waiting to sign the agreement that you are announcing today. Do not make that face, Mr Prime Minister, which is of a very safe source that the document was to have been signed today, and you today say that, in the meantime, they will support 100% in education and health. In the middle, the Minister of Territorial Cohesion makes an incredible number of Ricardo Araújo Pereira saying: « Pedro, if you're listening to me, I'm sure you're excellent for Portugal and I'm sending you here a big hug. You're a friend of decentralization, because you do a lot of miles! Do not keep on seeking. ” Is this or is it not a country to play, where firefighters don't have the money to get gas oil and to pay for the miles that, apparently, Minister Pedro Nuno Santos does? By the way, they say that we do not submit any proposals at all, but explain what has happened with SIRESP and its award.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u300	But Mr. Minister came here to explain!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u301	If this is not a reason for, once and for all, presenting a motion and censoring what the government is doing, then we do not know what we are doing here! [[PS protests.]] In the middle, there are parties that try to create soundbits, such as Mr Rui Tavares, which the only thing that knows how to say is « the economy of the three Cs », « the cycleways» and anything else interesting does not get out of there, and the PAN, which tries to gain prominence soon at night. With regard to Mrs PAN, and ending my speech, I will tell her in an environmental way what I think will happen to her. The lady is a very beautiful flower that is in the middle of the field and, one of these days, comes a cow and eats it. [[Cheers and laughs from the CH.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u302	Mr President, allow me to draw your attention to the terms you have used to refer to the President of the Republic and to a Member. In my opinion, we have too many. [[Congratulations from the PS and PSD Members.]] I now give the floor to Mr Rodrigo Saraiva to make an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative. [[Pause.]] I have to ask the House for the necessary silence so that Mr. Rodrigo Saraiva can intervene.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u303	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are today in a debate which, as was expected, has placed two parties in Berlin, the Socialist Party and the Arrival, which is the proposer of this motion, and some of the effects are beginning to feel, even by the intervention of Mr. João Torres, who seems to have already adopted the style and tone of the Arrival to intervene. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u304	Pull back and listen!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u305	Mr. Prime Minister, today I do not come here waiting for you to make an apology to the Portuguese. Not because we all know how much it costs you, but because today it would be fairer and more appropriate to make a thank you. The satisfaction with which you have been in this debate, especially in the responses given to some of the parties who have made interventions and requests for clarification, is well demonstrated. I should naturally like to thank the rapporteur for this motion of censure. After the submission of a motion of rejection to the Government's Programme, which has become the formal validation of a very bad document, today the Arrival presents a motion of censure, which becomes the formal validation of a motion of confidence to a very bad government. Portugal had elections five months ago. He's got a government in office three. It has a State budget in force less than a week ago. Is it in the head of someone, even in the face of the government disagreement that the Liberal Initiative has come to denounce, to send the country to a new political crisis?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u306	Sure! Good prayer!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u307	Half a year ago, PS, Left Block and PCP got involved in irresponsibility. Now, with the country recovering from the effects of a pandemic, to heal the wounds of the government's bad decisions in the management of that crisis, to deal with the effects of a war in Europe, with a crisis of brutal inflation and interest rates to rise, if it depended on arriving, we would again go to elections. For those who speak so much of the common Portuguese, do they have any notion of the evil they would be inflicting upon them?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u308	You don't even know who the common Portuguese are!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u309	In view of the current political context and parliamentary scenario, this motion is therefore a dry powder shot. It is inconsequential, not only because it is known that the PS will protect the government, no matter how messy they are made, as the motion text alone says that the path of the disaster can be reversed with changes to the piece. The president himself said he would withdraw the motion of censure if Antonio Costa resigned Marta Temido and Pedro Nuno Santos. That is, read the motion of censure presented and heard the President of the Arrival, André Ventura has hope in the Socialist Party. This is a big difference between the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival: we are fighting for changes in politics and the Reach believes it is enough to change the protagonists. We are faced with a chaos in health, a breakdown in education, an increasing inflation, the overthrow of social support and, to the irresponsibility and neglect of Antonio Costa, Pedro Nuno Santos and Marta Tepido, will we add the inconsequence of the Arrival? Let us be clear: this motion of censure is a motion of confidence to Antonio Costa and a number — one more! — to mark ground in the opposition, as, in fact, the Arrival has acknowledged. André Ventura does not oppose the government. In the desire for protagonistism is lost in opposition to opposition, which results in what is: collaboration.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u310	You're not the ones who make opposition!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u311	This motion of censure demonstrates the affection of Antonio Costa by André Ventura, who is reciprocal. Not only is the Prime Minister always ready to insuffil the radicalisms, as the President of the Arrival is available to make all the freight to this government. Antonio Costa can well have said—and we already know that the given word is honored only when it is convenient—that it does not count with the Arrival for anything, but André Ventura, in practice, is the electorate of the eternal life of the Prime Minister. However, in the midst of so much that has been said, we were able to find agreement with the proposer of the motion of censure. Yesterday I heard André Ventura, on television, in a strong criticism of the Left Block, saying that during the years of management, the Bloc was very barafusta in this Parliament, but reached the State Budget and voted in favour of the PS. It's, ironically, the same jigajoga that comes in now. Barafusta very much, but it reaches the State budget and is the party that most votes in favour of PS measures. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u312	That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u313	André Ventura and his inconsequential focus are the same as Antonio Costa and his pink propaganda: they do not resist the cotton test called reality. Only in the last State budget, the arrival voted 56 times in favour of the PS amendment proposals. It was really the party that voted the most next to the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u314	That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u315	After five years supported by the most sectarian and populist left, António Costa now lives by the most populist and sectarian right. Mr. Prime Minister, I end up addressing you. That is also why it will remain for history: by putting down the walls of good sense and moderation. The extremists thank you, the country is not. If you live well with this brand, you should at least run away from other brands that are attached to it: a paralysed country and the degradation of services to citizens. As far as the Liberal Initiative is concerned, there is an alternative to this path and we will show it every day. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u316	Mr President, I hope you have observed the very liberal way in which you manage your time. I now call on Mrs Rita Matias to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u317	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party should double its language to speak of young people, especially in the miserable context in which a young Portuguese lives today. But this week it should be doubled even more, when one realizes that freedom of education does not exist in Portugal, or, at least, does not exist for all people. This is because while we accept that some ethnic groups and communities see their young people leave schools in the name of tradition, the fact is that the Public Ministry is following a line from the Ministry of Education, a bullying line and persecution to a family that only asks that their children not be exposed to teaching in Portuguese schools. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I say the name of this family: Mesquita Guimarães. The name must be said in this House! Repeat: Guimarães Mosque. Therefore, this is a country of « two pesos and two measures ». It is very good for Mr Prime Minister to come here to answer the questions that he eventually agreed with Mrs Joana Sá Pereira in order to be able to make a moment of propaganda on the alleged action to support young people. [[PS protests.]] Mr Prime Minister can announce here the programmes you want, but the truth is he has been sitting in that chair for more than six years and, as regards young people, he has achieved only the following: youth unemployment above 20 %; three out of four young people earn less than 900 € per month; one third of Portuguese young people want to emigrate; one quarter of Portuguese young people with high symptoms of depression. The young Portuguese are the ones in Europe who have the greatest difficulty in leaving their parents' home. Therefore, Prime Minister, many congratulations on the youth policies you have followed! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. Prime Minister came here to say that this motion of censure that came to play with the Portuguese agenda, but it must be said that whoever is playing with the Portuguese, particularly with the Portuguese portfolio, is his Government. The truth is that a cabaz of essential goods purchased in February now costs more than 20 € to a family, a young person and an elderly person. Look at the country next door: a package of rice, which in Spain costs 1 €, in Portugal costs 1, 5 € ; a package of flour, which in Spain costs 0, 60 €, in Portugal costs 1, 5 € ; 1 kg of apples, which in Spain costs 1, 60 €, in Portugal is almost 2 €. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] Are you going to say that Spain is not subject to the context of war? Are you going to say that Spain has not been subject to the pandemic context? I leave the following question: besides money, what does a young Spanish have more than a young Portuguese? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u318	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u319	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The motion of censure of the Arrival that we are debating today was announced last week and, although it was handed over at the Palace of S. Bento, it has not yet been stopped at the Rosa Mota Pavilion mailbox. [[PCP laughter.]] It is, in fact, a motion of censure to the Government, but the real objective of this motion of censure of the Arrival is to mark territory on the right, and this whole debate has shown itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u320	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u321	The recipient of this motion of censure is not the Government, it is mainly the PSD and accessory the Liberal Initiative, with another court of tailors, but cut from the same farms. This motion of censure now marks a first test of the Arrival, on this first day in which it faces a more fierce competition in the championship of « passism ». from here, we want you to make good use of this championship. And if some can still express the old vote «God wants us to draw», we simply do not enter this game, because what moves us is not the revenge of right politics, it is the construction of an alternative policy that truly responds to the problems of the Portuguese country, the workers and the people. [[PCP applause.]] We will vote against this motion of censure of the Arrival because we know well that projects and paths it offers to the Country. When he speaks of the National Health Service who never wanted to defend the SNS, when he speaks of the prices of fuels that he never wanted to control them and much less face the interests of oil, when he speaks of the credibility of the government who has done everything to discredit the Assembly of the Republic and attack the Constitution, the question that is posed is: but does anyone see seriousness in this operation today? Mrs. Members, for the CFP, the vote that will take place today is not a problem. The problem is PS votes in the other days of the year!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u322	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u323	It is that every day, the concrete life of the vast majority of the people is becoming more difficult, the problems are getting worse, and the CFP is alerting itself to the need to take concrete steps to respond to these problems and to present proposals in this regard. Control and fix prices for essential fuels and food goods, end speculation, save and strengthen the National Health Service, stop the underfinancing of public services, end the ruinous PPP business, end scandalous tax benefits, defend tenants and the right to housing, protect the home of the family, eradicate the precariousness and ensure the rights of those who work, end the tips in public higher education — each of these proposals of the PCP, and many others that we could add, had in common the vote against the PS and the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u324	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u325	This convergence of positions, both in the budgetary debate and in legislative proposals, should give rise to deep reflection and serious consequences. We know which side we're on. We are next to the workers — every day! We don't say something today and otherwise tomorrow.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u326	That's true! They've been saying the same thing for 50 years!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u327	It is necessary that the memory is not short and that the answer is serious. It takes political courage to face economic power and defend national interest. It was necessary that these intentions declared by the Government should not return at the end of the day to the drawer and translate into the concrete action that the country needs. Tomorrow we will be here and give a voice to the workers, the populations, the small producers, to all those who do not give up fighting for the answers to their problems and for a better life. For that, you can count on the PCP! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u328	For an intervention, I give the floor to Mr Jorge Galveias from the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u329	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr. Prime Minister is the true man of propaganda. Something tells me that this feature will be part of your DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid). In your self-reliance, you forgot to say that the loss of the purchasing power of the elderly and reformed is brutal. It's brutal, Prime Minister! Do you think it is possible to live with less than 300 € a month? Does it seem to you that an increase of €10 per month for pensioners is fair? Have you ever realized that, with the increase in inflation, energy, food products, 0, 33 € a day, representing the 10 € a month, do not reach a liter of milk? This can't be a smoldering thing! With the extraordinary increase of 10 € per year in reforms, a pensioner with a reform of 278, 50 € per month will have to wait 42 years to arrive at the proposal presented by the Arrival in the last State Budget, in order to avoid any reform below the national minimum wage. Yes, a proposal from the Commission under the State budget. [[Congrats from the CH.]] To aggravate this problem, the government is negotiating with the IMF cuts in pensions and increases in the retirement age, behind the Portuguese. As important as the right accounts are the serious accounts. With regard to serious accounts, we are told that the absolute majority of the Socialist Party was formed with only 23% of the Portuguese votes. In other words, 77% of Portuguese did not trust the PS. Mr. Prime Minister, the lack of respect for the government for those with whom you have worked for a lifetime and today you see yourself in misery is well demonstrating the worst socialism has. Don't say there's no loss of purchasing power. Say it, besides not being true, it is shameful. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u330	For an intervention, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u331	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members: The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will use the final time it has to make an appeal. The debates must be consistent and the debate on the motion of censure was an important moment in this legislature, because once again we will have the opportunity to strengthen the government, to give the Portuguese more confidence in political stability and to give a message of hope. There is a government to solve problems, there is a government to the motto that will help the Portuguese to overcome this difficult time. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We all know that it would be an absolute irresponsibility, between the end of the pandemic and a war, to provoke a political crisis. As a result, it was very clear in today's debate that both the PSD and the Liberal Initiative, but essentially the PSD, in their interventions, expressed their willingness not to abstain, but rather to vote against, understand and translate clearly to the expression which was consensual in this Parliament that this motion of censure was not a motion of censure to the government, but a motion of censure to the PSD, to opposition. And the challenger presented himself here to question the PSD. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a courtesy—and I welcome Parliamentary leader Paulo Mota Pinto, telling him that it was a pleasure to debate with you during these times and therefore accept my compliance—I would like to say to the PSD parliamentary board that there is no abstention that solves the problem. After this debate, I ask you to vote against it. It's voting against separating water. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u332	We still have a parliamentary leader!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u333	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u334	Mr President, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias, what remains of this debate is not a « water separation ». There is the same majority to support the government, as we had in management, and there is a right that has no capacity to define itself and therefore remains in a « nim» about whether or not to censure this government. Therefore, I am proud to tell you, Mr President, that there is only one party in this House, along with millions of Portuguese people out there who want to censor this government. So we will be alone if we have to stay, because our legitimacy is never in this House, it is of the Portuguese people. And he knows what we really want out there! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr President, I cannot but end this debate without responding to the provocations that have been made to us by the Liberal Initiative, when we are told that the arrival is the great supporter of the Government. For what we know from the latest legislation is that the Liberal Initiative has approved as many government diplomas as the ENP and the CFP. This is what they bring from the last legislature: it is the hand given to the extreme left, due to the diplomas they have approved. In fact, the IL is a great partner of the government in a lot of things. He was always next to the PS, vetoing more support for the police, more support for the firefighters, more support for the National Health Service, for the doctors. Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo, there is Portugal of the Royal Prince and there is real Portugal! We are from real Portugal! That's our Portugal! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr Bruno Dias, I grant: the CFP does not say one thing today and another tomorrow. The PCP said the same thing 50 years ago in this house! That is the truth, in all the debates we have here. They've been saying the same thing for 50 years. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Therefore, what we have removed from here, Prime Minister, is the absolute pre-power of a government trusting in an absolute majority who will be here to support it. But Mr. Prime Minister knows, as I know, that the absolute majority are coming and going. Mr. Prime Minister knows, as I know, that if one day Mr. President of the Republic realizes that this majority is no longer the real feeling of the Portuguese people, they can well fill this Hall of palms and this Chamber of applause, that not even the 6-minute palms of the PS will save him. Sooner or later, with the increase in the cost of living, the increase in gas oil, the chronic impoverishment of young people and Portuguese, the destruction of health services, the humiliation of Portuguese and their death in the light of public services, the Prime Minister will have to account for this complete lack of government strategy. You can hold Pedro Nuno Santos, but you will not hold the vote of the Portuguese, nor what they want for Portugal. If the others do not want to be on the side of this censorship, we are better off because we are alone than we have been in Parliament before. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u335	For the end of the debate, the Government has the floor of the Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs. [[Pause.]] Mr. Paulo Mota Pinto is asking for the floor to speak? I am sorry, but the Bureau has not registered any requests for intervention. [[Pause.]] Please, Mr. Paulo Mota Pinto.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u336	Mr. President, I was calling the Bureau to try to sign up Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira. If it is possible to register it still, it is all right, if not, to close it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u337	Mr. André Ventura is asking for the floor. You want to sign up, too?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u338	No, Mr. President. Mr President, I think this is to avoid these debates. I would like to remind the House of the following: just a short time ago, the arrival asked Mr Prime Minister to make a request for clarification and Mr President decided that the arrival could not do so, because he had not registered while Mr Prime Minister was speaking. Mr President, there are already criteria for each other. Either there is a criterion for everyone, or there is no Rules of Procedure and it is the total burden here in Parliament, where they speak when they want, if they want, and Mr President is pleased with this. We have nothing against the PSD to talk about, the PSD has three minutes, but, as is evident from these debates, there have been inscriptions, the registration period has ended and, therefore, against the Rules of Procedure, I apologize, but Mr President cannot give the floor to the PSD. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u339	When the House has 116 Members in this Chamber, he may state what the President of the Assembly of the Republic then or then, who will be elected or elected by the Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u340	It's the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u341	Until then, according to this House, with the weight that the people sovereignly wanted to grant it to you. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Registrations for requests for clarification must be made during the interventions to which they are addressed. I am sorry that Mr Paul Mota Pinto has not been able to sign up in time, but we will not be harming the debate or entering into a regiment discussion that does not have much meaning. Therefore, without objection — I hope — of no parliamentary group, we have entered the stage of closing the debate and, to this end, I give the floor to Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u342	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It was expected and was confirmed with the debate this afternoon that the Arrival presents a motion of censure, first, to prove life and, secondly, to condition the PPD / PSD. Yes, sir. Members, proof of life, because this electionist populism has to be fueled by blows of controversy, radicalization and deconstruction of political discourse. Yes, they want to challenge the new leadership of the PSD for the same irresponsibility of populist pentor, in an attempt to condition the moderation process that the new leadership of the PSD says they want for their policy. What he wanted, and wanted during this afternoon, is to challenge the PSD for radicalization, even though it represents, as it was also evident throughout the afternoon, abuse, degradation of the functioning of democratic institutions and the degradation of political debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What he wanted with this motion of censure was to settle accounts with the past of his own leader, who, having left the PSD, will do everything to gain his advantage and to try to condition it. The PSD had here, and still has an opportunity to tell the Portuguese that it is a moderate force and does not compact with the populist, extremist and radical drifts of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u343	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u344	After the interventions that the PSD has given here today, it will be an act of masochism to abstain from this motion of censure, which is a motion of censure at its own bench. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And, I repeat, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this parliamentary initiative is not, nor has it ever been, a motion of censure to the Government. In the face of the challenge to the new leadership, what does the PSD want to do? To compete in radicalism or to defend the moderation you announced at the congress? Do as in the Azores? Join this extreme populist, xenophobic and ultra-liberal right? What does the PSD really want to do? This afternoon, we were once again in doubt. at the same time as the PSD calls against the compressor roll of the majority, its new leader reacts with irony, and even with disdain, at the Prime Minister's invitation to dialogue, in search of solutions for structuring themes for the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u345	Solutions that have already been presented? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u346	at the same time as criticizing the PS and the government for what they call a "no reformist impetus", the new PSD leader refuses to take any steps to find broad and comprehensive answers. at the same time that it says it wants to reconcile the PSD with pensioners and lower taxes, recovers a large part of the protagonists who, in recent years, have made cuts in pensions, a huge increase in taxes and the impoverishment of Portuguese society. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we all agree with the new leader of the PSD, when he stated at the end of his congress that the world has changed, and even changed, with the war in Ukraine. We all know that. We know of the disastrous consequences of this war, which have come to add and overcome those of the pandemic. We all also know that we have an obligation to look, with responsibility, at the geopolitical, economic and social consequences of this context, even though the opposition fears to ignore them. instead of using this afternoon to present solutions for the Portuguese, who must be astonished to look at this debate, the right-hand benches have limited themselves to the "bottom-down" and did not present a single proposal for the country to solve their problems. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been living at a time when we have also been dealing with the greatest flow of displaced persons in Europe since World War II. The values of the democratic rule of law must be constantly reaffirmed and defended. That is why in democracies there is no space, no space, for any transition from democratic forces to populist and xenophobic forces. I do not believe that structuring political forces of our democracy, such as the PSD, can even admit to supporting a party that defends, and I quote, « abolishing residence permits for the so-called ‘humanitarian protection’. That is, for example, what is included in the electoral programme of the Arrival. It is more than a reason to reaffirm, here, the old republican maxim against populists and xenophobics: with us, they will not pass. [[Mr André Ventura's laughs.]] Mr André Ventura, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, for the responsible exercise of parliamentary democratic activity, the facts always supplant the insinuations and lies, I repeat, always supplant the insinuations and lies, and it will only be possible to have a serious and honest debate. [[Mr André Ventura's laughs.]] It affirms that in this test of life covered by motion of censure, which is, and I quote, "the Socialists have reached about 40% of the votes, (...) it is also true that more than 50 % of the Portuguese abstained", concluding, then, that the Socialist Party represents the majority of voters, but not the majority of Portuguese. We will not do the same exercise on how much the votes of the Arrival are worth.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u347	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u348	By this order of ideas, and not by using your demagogy, the 399 510 votes of the Arrival...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u349	400,000!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u350	... do not represent the opinion of the more than 5 million citizens who voted. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I therefore recommend that you speak only on behalf of your party and not on behalf of the other party forces, which, as we know, do not accompany you on this stage which trivializes the importance of the motion of censure. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government and the Portuguese have not chosen this situation, but the adverse context in which we live has not, nor will it ever be, excuse for inaction, hesitation or failure. The price escalation that hits us forced us to find answers. The country is today better and better prepared to face the situation we have; it is the country and are the Portuguese. The trajectory of the right accounts gave us the margin that we used in the pandemic to preserve our productive capacity. Our social protection system has restored trust with pensioners and seeks to protect those who need it most. All this required choices, and it was the result of these choices that allowed us to walk consistently in this work, strengthening the National Health Service and responding to all Portuguese. We know of the enormous difficulties faced by families and businesses because of increasing energy costs, and therefore we do not hesitate or hesitate to respond in order to reduce the impact of these increases. We are determined to use a good part of the PRR's funds to support companies and families in a transition that has to be done socially justly. We have a government with the support of a solid parliamentary majority and the government leaves this reinforced Parliament. We are aware of the challenges we face, in an environment of still some unpredictableness, but these challenges are impinging us on the transformation of the country. As always, we work with complete institutional cooperation and loyalty with all sovereignty agencies. We are a government with a project, with a team, a consistent team, cohesive in its diversity, solidarity in its plurality, enthusiastic and determined, a government that has a strong, recognized leadership and with the internal and external credibility that affirms and prestige Portugal. We are therefore determined always to do our best for Portugal, for the Portuguese and for all who live in our country. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as has already been said, there is a government that can fall today, but it will certainly not be the Government of Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u351	To close the debate on the part of the party proposing the motion of censure, Mr Pedro Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u352	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate we had here today brought what we anticipated — a Parliament united against the only opposition party in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The great victory of the arrival was to bring 15 days later the Prime Minister to this Parliament, as it must be and as it should be. This is where you have to account for the country! This Parliament will, within a few minutes, reject a motion of censure and consequently pass a rubber in everything that is wrong in our country because of this government's responsibility. from left to right, they are all responsible, because they all compacted with the Socialist Party. The opposition in this Parliament has only one name: Party Arrival, where we are very proud, always by the Portuguese. [[Congrats from the CH.]] This motion of censure is too necessary, after almost 100 days of government and this government has left the country in chaos in fundamental sectors for citizens. Mr. Prime Minister, in health, we learned that it's all for tomorrow. Paraphrasing Antony Variations : « It's p' ra tomorrow / Well you could do today / Because tomorrow I know you're late again». The flag of socialist pride, the SNS, goes from bad to worse: closed pediatric emergencies; babies having to be born outside their municipality or district and some even in Spain; hospitals with hours and hours of waiting; lack of information; people waiting for an ambulance; patients hospitalized for one week to make a CT (computed axial tomography) or magnetic resonance imaging; ambulances held for lack of maces in hospitals; 1 million and 400,000 Portuguese without a family doctor. This is what the socialists are proud of. In a serious government, Minister Marta Temido had only one way, which was resignation. And the PSD and IL feel that the health of Portuguese is no reason for a motion of censure. [[Congrats from the CH.]] So we have more: fuels with the highest prices ever, with historical increases. And what does the government do? Vouchers, as if any holiday was concerned, vouchers that need registration and the Internet and therefore remain inaccessible to thousands of citizens. It's complicated to spend less, to look like you're doing something. No, Mr. Prime Minister, the Portuguese don't want vouchers, neither linguistics, nor stories to enchant. The Portuguese want actions, measures that can effectively lower the fuel, so they can go to work and put bread on their children's table, bread that begins to miss the table of the Portuguese and increase daily, now with the excuse of war. It's 2 million poor and 4 million on the poverty line. It is the legacy of this socialist government :... [[Congrats from the CH.]] ... 4 million poor, almost half the Portuguese population! If for the PSD and the Liberal Initiative are not reasons for a motion of censure, then you don't realize what opposition they are doing, but we still get you more reasons. Pedro Nuno Santos and Antonio Costa. Can a minister continue in office after being disauthorised by the Prime Minister? Can a structural and necessary work for Portugal, as is the new airport, be wrapped up in a tangle between government members? Then they speak in cohesion and credibility! Cohesion? What is the cohesion that demonstrates this case? None! Then comes the «forgive me», in the right way a South American novel. [[Mr André Ventura's laughs.]] What country is this, where is a situation like this and the Minister stays in office, as if it were nothing? Oh, my God! Until when? It's that any day you can announce four or five airports and the next day you'll apologize and everything's gonna be okay! This is the portrait of a country on the contrary! To all this, add the chaos installed at airports. Tourism, the famous « golden egg chicken», now thrown to waste, is seen as a country that does not know how to receive, with endless queues and waiting hours that exhaust the patience of any citizen. What a good image the tourist takes from Portugal! This is a government without preparation, who knew what would happen at Lisbon airport and did not guard the summer. Now, this is what you see: flights cancelled every day, people wanting to go out and get into Portugal and stay with their lives tied up. There is no need to be a witch to guess what was being prepared, no longer to speak of the extinction of the SEF, or restructuring, as now they mean, which brings into question the entry into the country of people who no one knows who they are, including an entry door to Europe. If for the PSD and the Liberal Initiative all this is not yet a reason to censor this government, then we do not know what it will be. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Credibility. How can it be a credible government with a finance minister like Fernando Medina, who delivered the data of Russian activists to the Government of Vladimir Putin and left millions of debt in the City Hall of Lisbon? Oh, my God! Credibility, My Lords? Oh, my God! [[Congrats from the CH.]] Almost 100 days have come to realize that this is a fragile government, supported by a socialist majority that wants to perpetuate in power, with the Portuguese increasingly tied to the state and living on payrolls, so that they can say that it's all right. This, no longer to speak of the wars of power within the Socialist Party, which, in this case, were very evident. And I look forward and still see Saudiers by José Socrates, which is a very curious thing in this Socialist Party. This is the socialist state, in which entrepreneurs can't get people to work. Ask, for example, the restoration sector, which is experiencing a huge crisis, without professionals at the same time and without getting people to work. It happens from north to south of the country and what does the government do? Close your eyes, whistle to the side and say we need migrants to fill jobs. And that says, when, according to a study published this week, 71% of Portuguese immigrants want to return to Portugal, I repeat, 71%! Much does not return for three reasons: low wages and lack of opportunities; corruption and compassion; and a bad health system. Where is the "wonder country" of António Costa? [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] Here the government, instead of increasing wages, giving conditions of life to the Portuguese, leaving the compadrium aside to the good socialist way, fighting truly corruption and improving the health system, prefers to spend money on observatories and foundations on migration or racism, with little or no interest, creating ghosts that do not exist in Portuguese society, with only one claim: that they continue to enter migrants, without asking who they are, from where they come, to receive home, subsidies, and the same as they always pay! [[Congrats from the CH.]] One working for others does not do anything, as socialists like, to always have control over people. This is the PS Government which today, in this House, deserves to be censured! We can add much more to this motion of censure. For example, in agriculture, in relation to a drought that was more than announced, what did the government do? Nothing! [[PS protests.]] With the country almost everything in severe drought, the problems get worse, it takes time to come to support and, when they arrive, they are neither near nor far away the promised one. We realize that, in this part of agriculture, the Liberal Initiative does not see reason for censure on the Government, we understand perfectly! Even because we already know that part of this party exists only in Lisbon and Porto. [[Protests by IL Member João Cotrim Figueiredo.]] Now, that the PSD, a party that is said to be so connected to the rural world and farmers, does not see and does not realize that it is more than a reason for censorship, that, we no longer understand. [[Congrats from the CH.]] As much as Luís Montenegro goes around the country, the rural world will not forget that they did not censor this government. It is that farmers need acts and not words. What country is this, where they let a 3-year-old girl die, like the little Jessica in Setúbal, who was already signalled as being at risk, and now they want to leave to school school students banned by the parents to attend citizenship classes? Oh, my God! [[Congrats from the CH.]] It is that education must be given at home, instead of ideologies imposed at schools! And it is precisely in schools that continues chaos, because about 28 000 students did not have a teacher at least one discipline. What is the government preparing for September? Little or nothing! In fact, the estimates are that 100 000 students start the school year without a teacher. But everything goes well for the Socialist Party and its friends. This adds many other aspects, such as unconditional schools, some with rain inside, without heating, leaving children in the rain and cold, to which is added the precariousness and the teachers displaced. This is the real, socialist country, of more than one Government of António Costa that deserves to be censored today, but the PSD and the Liberal Initiative seem to have no courage to do so. And then the Left Block and the PCP, workers' and unprotected defenders, fierce in the attack on a government that are complicit, at this time of censoring the old management partners, did not want to do so, perhaps not repeat a betrayal, after so many love vows. The PAN is the spokesman for the Socialist Party and the Free Party is an appendix, the famous "papoila in a rose garden". [[Cheers and laughs from the CH.]] The Liberal Initiative makes excuses for arriving likes sending rockets. But no, Dear Liberals, what we want is to be the voice of the people, of the common Portuguese, of those you don't know, of Mr. Manuel, who is a taxi driver, or of Mrs. Maria, who is a seamstress, or even of Mr. João, who sells Berlin balls on the beach. We are here to defend all those who get up early to work, those who produce, those who are proud to be Portuguese. The Liberal Initiative took another step in relation to what we already knew:... [[Congrats from the CH.]] ...if the Socialist Party needed the Liberal Initiative to form government, there would be the liberals, with given hands. In fact, liberalism rhymes with socialism. But what opposition does the PSD intend? The one who just wanted the government to hold accounts in this Parliament every two months or a serious opposition? From what we see, everything will continue the same, because it lacks the courage of the PSD to vote next to the Arrival. The PSD proves what we already knew: the only true and real opposition to the Socialist Party's government is made by arriving, ahead and without fear.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u353	Olé!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u354	They may call us populists or extreme-rights, but they can never accuse us of honoring terrorists of FP-25 ( Popular Forces 25 April ), as did the PS, in a meeting of Sintra parish. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The next vote will remain on each one's conscience.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u355	And you're aware? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u356	For our part, right after night, when we lay our heads on the pillow, we'll sleep restful,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u357	Oh, me too! I'm already sleeping here, the more in bed! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u358	... while some will have to put the pillow on top of their head to get some sleep. We continue here in our firm opposition to socialism, Portugal, by the Portuguese! [[Ch's applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-07-06.u359	This concludes the debate on the motion of censure and we shall immediately proceed to the vote. I ask the services to initiate the quorum verification system and to advertise the result. [[Pause.]] We have quorum, but I wonder if any Member of Parliament or some Member of Parliament has not been able to register. [[Pause.]] Everyone has been able to register and the Bureau is aware that our colleague Alexandre Simões, from the PSD, is participating in this session remotely and has already indicated his sense of vote and will therefore be accounted for. So we have quorum, so we will proceed to the electronic vote of the motion of Censorship No 1 / XV / 1. a (CH) — End with constant deterioration of government credibility and chronic impoverishment of Portuguese. [[Having put to the vote, he did not obtain the votes of the absolute majority of Members in office effectiveness, with 133 votes against (120 of the PS, 6 of the PCP, 5 of the BE, 1 of the PAN and 1 of the L), 12 votes in favour (CH) and 80 abstentions (72 of the PSD and 8 of the IL).]] Mrs. Members, the motion of censure has therefore been rejected. [[PS applause, stand up.]] We therefore conclude today's agenda. The next plenary session will take place tomorrow, Thursday, 7th, and the agenda consists of the debate of the Interpellation to Government No 1 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — On general policy, focused on solutions for the defence of the purchasing power and the living conditions of the people, blocking the increase in prices and ensuring the increase in wages and pensions. Thank you very much. See you tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 48 minutes.]]
