ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, we are in a position to begin our plenary session and I therefore declare the session open. [[It was 10 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the galleries to the public. Thank you very much. The plenary session today, of course, of the legislative votes, has a single item on the agenda, consisting of a debate with the Minister of the Presidency, under Article 224 ( 2 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure. I would like to draw the attention of the honourable Members. Members that the times of this debate are very generous, together it means three hours, so I will strive to contain the honourable Members. Members within the time limits of their seats. Therefore, I ask for the cooperation of all to this end. Before that, however, and for the reading of the dossier, Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u2	Thank you, Mr. President, it will be very short. They entered the Bureau, and were admitted by Mr President, draft resolutions Nos 325 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 326 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 9. the Commission, and 327 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 8. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u3	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then start the debate, so you have the floor of the Presidency Minister Mariana Vieira da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the time of the evaluation of the Government Programme, we have stated our ambition to respond to a demanding situation, without questioning the commitments made in the programme covered by the Portuguese. in these eight and a half months, much has been done in the fulfilment of the Program in areas by which this team responds in this Assembly. In the area of Public Administration, measures have been taken to fulfil the dual purpose of strengthening wages and valuing careers with equity and predictability and rejuvenation of the public administration. Conditions were created to attract more talent, valuing the degrees of undergraduate and doctor and promoting the additional valorization of doctorate holders who already belong to the Public Administration. It was possible to reach a multi-annual agreement on the valuation of earnings and careers of workers in public service, the first since 1999, ensuring predictability of workers'incomes in a context of high volatility and uncertainty and providing for an increase of 20 % of incomes up to 2026, in line with the proposed and agreed in the context of social consultation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As of 2023, an overall valuation of wages of 5, 1 % was guaranteed, including the different remuneration components, including an annual increase equivalent to a remuneration level of around 52 €, in a wage valuation ranging from 8 % to 2 % for all employees of the Public Administration. This valuation means that all workers will have an increase of at least 208 € over the four years of the Legislature. The updating of pay levels adds the fulfilment of another of the structural measures of the Government Programme: the review of the single pay table ( TRU ) following the principles of appreciation of the different careers and fair pay differential between them, ensuring a difference of €100 between the career of operational assistant and the career of technical assistant and a difference of €500 between the career of operational assistant and the higher technical career, in a process phased throughout the legislature. For the career as a superior technician from January 2023, there will be an additional remuneration balance, totaling an increase of 104, 22 € in 2023, an average increase of 5, 6 % in these careers. For the career as a technical assistant from January 2023, there will be an additional salary jump totaling an increase of € 104, with an average increase of 10, 7 % for these workers. For the operational assistant career, there will be a remuneration differentiation between one and two levels for those over 15 and 30 years of service, respectively, which, from 2023 onwards, benefits 38 000 operational assistants, 26 % of the total, and, together with the remuneration valuation, represents an average increase of 9, 8 %. The income and career recovery agreement also includes two other measures which also assist in the overall recovery of income. I refer to the rise of the meal allowance to €5, €20, effective since October of this year, and the implementation of the spare points accumulation rule of SIADAP ( Integrated Management and Performance Assessment System in Public Administration ) for the purpose of changing the remuneration position. This is a balanced proposal that enhances the public administration's careers without jeopardizing budgetary responsibility, thus ensuring sustainability of this process, which recognizes workers as first and foremost determinant of the quality of public services. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In the area of planning, we have maintained the objective of ensuring the full use of the European funds available to Portugal in the coming years. We continued the implementation of the Recovery and Resilience Plan ( PRR ), according to which it was programmed, as the European Commission confirmed with the validation in May of the fulfilment of the 38 milestones and targets established by the end of 2021, which allowed the payment of the first disbursement. And that is also what we hope that the European Commission will soon be able to confirm, i.e. that we also meet the 20 milestones and targets associated with the second request for disbursement in September. When we complete the validation of these two applications, 17 % of the marks and targets of the PRR will be verified, and this has already been translated into the lives of hundreds of thousands of Portuguese people, either through support to businesses, improving public services or direct support to families. The government has been aware from the first hour of the pressure that the environment we live in adds to the implementation of the PRR, which was already quite demanding at the beginning. And, accordingly, we have been working on two fronts: firstly, working to minimize the impact of the situation on the different projects of the Recovery and Resilience Plan, which is only an example of the approval of the diploma that allows for price review in contracts, as well as the extension of contractual deadlines; secondly, and taking advantage of the review and reprogramming exercise of the RPP that would always exist, we will try to adapt investments to current constraints, which are, in fact, common to all European countries. The Government submitted, and approved in July, the partnership agreement establishing the broad guidelines for the implementation of the next EUR 23 billion Multiannual Financial Framework; yesterday the European Commission announced that all operational programmes implementing the Partnership Agreement are approved; and also yesterday, the Government approved the governance model that meets the requirements for the implementation of this programming cycle, which responds to the expectations of linkage with civil society, which responds to the imperative of transparency in the allocation of public resources. The Government is still committed to closing the PT 2020 ( Portugal 2020 ), ensuring its full implementation by the end of 2023. In line with the European Commission, closure requires specific measures, with closer and regular monitoring of defined targets or the use of the Recovery Stock Exchange. This path of full use of European funds will enable — and this is the most important — to strengthen the social state and modernise our economy. It will make it possible to strengthen the social state by protecting the SNS (National Health Service ), giving it the ability to give more and better answers to the needs of Portuguese people, strengthening the public housing policies outlined since 2018, oriented towards the resolution of serious housing deficiencies, and improving access to housing by middle class families, broadening and qualifying the social responses particularly oriented to childhood and the elderly. It will allow us to modernize our economy by continuing to bet on the qualification of people, improving the conditions of access and frequency of different study cycles, without forgetting adult education, improving the conditions for the transfer of knowledge to our productive fabric and accelerating the orientation of our companies for climate and digital transitions. Also in the field of planning, and because this area is not exhausted in the proper application of Community funds, we have created the Network of Planning and Public Administration Prospective Services, which institutionalizes a collaborative space of cross-sectoral nature. This network will facilitate cross-sectional work and will promote synergies between different bodies which, in different government areas, have planning skills. As we talk about the increasing complexity of the problems that Portugal and the world are experiencing, the quality of public policy responses will depend on this ability to converge knowledge and competences in different areas. In the area of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, we continue to pursue the process optimization strategy and the promotion of synergies, focusing on the modernisation and simplification of shared services, in particular within the national public procurement system, strengthening the centres of competence that give greater technical autonomy to the State, with the reduction of outsourcing of services and reorganizing services with the promotion of the physical concentration of government areas and the services and agencies of the Public Administration. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government Programme has stated the intention of the Executive to have a more capable and effective state in the allocation of human resources and financial resources. A state capable of increasingly providing better universal public services, which reduce inequalities and improve the business environment. An agile and transparent State in the realization of investments that qualify public investments and accelerate the transformation of the national productive tissue. It is to this end that this government area is committed, at the service of greater economic development, to a greater social cohesion, to the service of the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u5	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's start the first round of questions. Let us begin with the PSD Parliamentary Group, speaking to that effect Mr Paulo Rios.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u6	Mr President, Mr. Ministers, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, we have listened carefully to your quiet and contented speech. PSD is not so quiet and not so satisfied. of the various themes that we could bring you, choose, perhaps because of its importance, and as the first choice, the PRR. It is a plan that is born, for us, with an original sin: the excessive allocation of funds to the fulfilment of the public investment promises that they made year after year, not making it basic, and as philosophy, money to the economy and businesses. In addition, this Plan was very short to be implemented until 2026. The Minister seems to think that the necessary steps have been taken to respond to the questions and challenges that arise, but the PSD is not at all pleased with its satisfaction, because all the entities — all external, autonomous — who have supervision or protection on the subject have been alerting them successively to slow down and slow down this plan which threatens its implementation and which is absolutely essential for us. I recall that the Banco de Portugal recently warned about the reduced implementation of the projects in such a way that the Governor of Banco de Portugal felt the need to come to the public to warn that, in fact, the execution rate was dramatically low — and the expression is not ours. The National RPP Follow-up Commission also points out that an acceleration of the implementation of the RRP is needed because there are risk areas and the targets are being compromised. We have joined the President of this Commission himself, who also spoke of the need for such an additional effort—which we have not heard of in the intervention he has made of the rostrum—which is apparently going to be done. The President of the Public Finance Council also warned that the structural scope of the programme was at stake. When we hear the AEP (Associación Empresarial de Portugal), the AECOPS (Associación de Empresas de Constructiones e Obras Públicas e Servicios ) and the main partners, everyone says they are concerned. That is, everyone is worried less about the government. Mr. Prime Minister, in that interview he gave, was arrogant, expressed great concern about the subject, which we are even more concerned about. Mr Minister, our first question is: is there a problem for which does the government need an answer that has not yet been given? Or, as usual, is everything okay? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u7	In reply, you have the floor of the Minister of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u8	Mr President, Mr President, I do not know where this calm and satisfaction came from because in all the interventions I have had since 30 March 2022, when I take responsibility in this area, I have highlighted two fundamental dimensions. The first dimension: The Recovery and Resilience Plan does not have the same method of monitoring the implementation of the other European funds; it does have a set of targets and frameworks with which the Portuguese Government has committed itself to the European Commission and which have been fulfilled. That is what happened with regard to the first request for payment, that is what happened when we submitted to the European Commission the set of 20 goals and milestones of the second payment. This is the measure that allows all Portuguese, the Assembly of the Republic, to all the institutions that have referred to whether or not we are complying with the RPP implementation agreement. When you say that all the institutions say the same, let me disagree, because the institution that checks the conditions for compliance with the PRR has not said that, quite the contrary. I said this when invited by the committee accompanying the implementation of the Community funds in this House and in response to questions asked by VV. For example, Portugal was fulfilling what it was committed to.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u10	And you've told all the ladies and gentlemen. Journalists who insist on asking the question. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The second dimension: the situation we are living in and which the European Commission recognises in the other Community funds, by flexing the rules for the implementation of funds over and over again, means a particular difficulty in implementing Community funds which already had such a short deadline of compliance as you said well. It is clear that the environment we live in brings additional constraints to the implementation of the RPP. For this reason, the Portuguese Government was the first to tell the European Commission that additional flexibility would be necessary in view of the environment we live in. At the time, the ladies and gentlemen. Members said that it made no sense, that the situation had no implications for the implementation of Community funds. It must be the first time that the economic environment is considered to have no — none! — impact on the implementation of Community funds. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And after that letter that Mr Prime Minister — contrary to what the honourable Member says — sent to the European Commission, the door was opened to this flexibility. Several countries are negotiating this flexibility and, therefore, in my speech, in my speeches, today and always, what I see is concern, commitment and much concentration in the implementation of this plan. I don't see what the honourable Member says there is. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u11	Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u12	Mr President, Minister, the evaluations are assessments. We haven't figured out if there's a problem or not. As soon as he said that everything was going well, as he said there was a problem that had to be solved and that Portugal was even the first to signal it. But it will certainly accompany me in the numbers, because these are not likely to be denied. When we talk about execution rates, these are absolutely anemic, incipient. Money is not reaching companies, it is not reaching the IPSS ( Special Social Solidarity Institutions ). In other words, there is a programme that, although it is evolutionary—and we understand it because it presupposes, firstly, projects—it would start soon but the money is not reaching the companies, this is a short-term/medium programme. Is this true or is it a lie? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u13	In reply, you have the floor of the Minister of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u14	Mr President, honourable Member, repeating the sentence I said recently: the methodology for monitoring this fund in particular is the achievement of a set of goals and frameworks. When the European Commission approves our second request for payment, we will have completed 17 % of the targets and the milestones, exactly those that were planned. Even when we look at the implementation numbers on which you are asking, what you see is 70% of the total investment already approved, and the payment is currently 7%. It has grown in recent months and that is how it will happen, as in all projects, as any person who has ever carried out public investment or community funds will tell you what happens. Always! You have, in your party, anyone who has already said so in interviews. I suggest you listen to those who have worked in this area and know how things develop. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u15	Mr Jorge Salgueiro Mendes of the PSD Parliamentary Group now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u16	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, I have listened to you very carefully. The Minister was here a month and four days ago and, at the time, she came here somehow dazzled. There were times when he showed up to a certain preponderance in relation to issues that the opposition, in particular the PSD, put to him in relation to the implementation of the RPP and other European funds. After a month and four days, Mrs. Minister comes to this house, and it's not by chance. It was the government that decided on the subject of the debate and it was the government that decided who was the next member of the government. Mrs. Minister came here for a number of reasons, and one of them went to repair damage. It is that from November 5 to today everyone questions the execution of the PRR. Everyone questions whether or not we are capable. [[PSD applause.]] It is not the PSD, it is the credible institutions, Mrs. Minister! But secondly, as we know, the Court of Auditors'assessment report on the PRR is also about to come out. It is not only about the implementation, it is about the design, the structure, the control system and also about the implementation. Does the Minister have anything to add to her informal, institutional or even some contradiction that has already existed between the Court of Auditors team and the Government on what is stated in this report? And do you think it is acceptable that the Prime Minister has told Vision this week that he is not concerned about the evaluation of the Court of Auditors, which is concerned about the evaluation of the monitoring committee that was appointed by the Government? Is that important? I don't think so, Minister. I am sure you are concerned about the possible content of this report by the Court of Auditors and that it is necessary to create a smoking curtain already, to try to spread out that we have a problem and that we need to solve it. I am not very concerned about the past, in fact, I am also, but I am more concerned about the future, Mrs Minister. Indeed, 2023 will be a crucial year for the success of the PRR and for the economic and social success of this country, because in 2023 we will have to run at least EUR 8 billion. So we need everyone, we need everyone and everything. First of all, we need a given government. This government and its team are determined and prepared for what will have to be done in 2023, Minister? Some administrative and bureaucratic obstacles need to be removed. Is it with the recent change to public procurement that you want to solve the implementation problems that the PRR has? Is that it? I think we're going to have even more litigation and more delays in the project. Finally, Mrs Minister, we must have cohesive, determined and motivated teams. And we have a problem, which is up to you and which is not solved all these years, which is the PREVPAP (An extraordinary programme for the regularization of the precarious links in the Public Administration) in relation to the technicians of the regional coordination committees. We have immense technical, highly experienced and capable, who are still in court or with their unsolved situation. Without these technicians, I assure you, we have not been able to implement well what we have to do in terms of PRR, Portugal 2020 and Portugal 2030. When are you going to solve this situation, Minister? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u17	In reply, you have the floor of the Minister of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u18	Mr President, Mr Member, I suggest that when the Journals of this Parliament transcribe their intervention, it should be noted that at some point it says « it is not the PSD that says so, they are credible institutions ». I don't know if you want to interpret this sentence or if you leave it for a free interpretation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In reply to your question, I would like to say the following: the Court of Auditors is an independent institution which prepares its reports, which we should read and whose recommendations we should follow. That's what I've been doing since the beginning. When we took possession, there was a set of indications on what was to be improved in the PRR monitoring model, and what the Government did was to seek to introduce these improvements, both with regard to double financing checks and improvements in the internal control system that this programme has. And that's always our perspective, from the first hour. Since the delivery of the Recovery and Resilience Plan to the European Commission, we have proposed a monitoring mechanism, an audit and control committee and it has been referred to by the European Commission as a monitoring and control structure that would not require an evaluation before the programme begins to be implemented, contrary to what happened in other countries. Therefore, our perspective has always been that each entity, according to its competences, does the checks it has to do and the recommendations of improvement it has to do. And we are here to continue to improve always a programme that brings news in its methodology and therefore certainly lacks permanent improvements. The gentlemen. Members always begin your speeches with the expression 'I have listened to her carefully' and then they always say the opposite of what I said. I suppose it's a bengal, like anyone else, to support the reasoning. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u19	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u20	Our concern at the realisation and sense of responsibility that we have as a whole of the funds we have to implement is enormous. Therefore, all the instruments, from the revision of the Code of Public Contracts to the decree-law that allows to update prices, to the various simplification regimes that we have introduced, compete for a good execution that improves the lives of Portuguese and Portuguese companies, which improves the life of our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u21	You now have the floor for the PSD, Mrs Fatima Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Minister, indeed, between what you are talking about and reality is going a great distance. Today, above all, I appeal to conscience. In the context of 13. the Commission, we have made a trip to the Intermunicipal Community ( CIM ) of Trás-os-Montes. And how do we feel? We felt a great disappointment on the part of all the autarchs and the people we were with. They are people with great resilience, who feel they have an environmental pearl, with great resources that are not being used. They feel that they have a good location in relation to Spain and that there are good accessibilitys in Spain — they have the high-speed TGV right there at the door — but when they look at their territory, they see the population abandon them. More than 8 % of companies have lost in the last decade, not to mention the population. What happens there is happening in other territories of the interior of Portugal. What does this tell us? That central management policies are completely inadequate to their needs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u24	I give some examples, Mrs. Minister. They are municipalities with about 700 km2, with many villages whose roads need to be maintained, arranged and requalified, roads that, in winter, are filled with ice. And what do the Community funds propose to them? Cyclovia, Minister! In other words, this is not adapted to reality. [[PSD applause.]] Then they want support for entrepreneurs to invest, and what is certain is that these support does not arrive. They want support for the IPSS, and they don't get there. What do they ask for? Ask the Minister and the other members of the government to speak with them! They set out policies that meet their needs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u26	So, Minister, this is the big call and these are the big questions that we ask you. In the course of this PRR, is Ms. Minister available to go to the ground to talk to these city halls and change the rules? As you are negotiating the new Community framework, will you go to the ground to negotiate rules that meet the needs of these people? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u27	You have the floor to answer, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u28	Mr President, Member of Parliament, if there is something that Portugal 2030 is fundamentally different from Portugal 2020, it is the fact that regional programmes have been built on the basis of each of the five regions and with the contribution of the autarchs and CIMs of each of them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And that is why, when we look at what the regional programmes say yesterday which the European Commission actually approved, what do we see? A work that follows, which is the inter-municipal communities, the development of their plans, their strategies, what in their lands, their communities, their municipalities want it to be the main investment to be able to develop their development strategies. This is the main feature of the regional programmes which, as you know, are the responsibility of my colleague Minister for Territorial Cohesion, but we have sought to have a Portugal 2030 with national thematic axes that respond to the main priorities of our country — the fight against inequalities, the climate transition and the digital transition and the competitiveness of our businesses and five regional programmes, plus the regional programme of the Azores and Madeira — which correspond to those that are strategies of the regions, listening to the municipalities. That is the main basis for the question put by the honourable Member. It is not the members of the government who have defined the strategies of each of the regions and of each of the municipalities; it is an integrated response between the inter-municipal communities, municipalities, the CCDRs, of course accompanied by a negotiation with the European Commission, which we have done together. I understand that European funds cannot always support exactly all the investments that communities would like most. There are demands and that is why this is a negotiation. Here we will be able, with national public investment, to overcome the limitations we all know. For many years the European Commission has imposed certain limitations, some of which you have mentioned, for example, the roads, which the European Commission has long said are outside Community support in this area. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u29	Mrs Fatima Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u30	Mr President, Mrs Minister, in fact I have already seen several Community funds and various programmes and, between what is being discussed and reality, are a number of councils losing more than 20 % of the population. This means that the rules have not gone well, and it must therefore be said to Europe that something has to be changed, Mrs Minister. For example, the new Community framework shows that large companies, or even mid-caps, will have no support for competitiveness.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u31	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u32	I ask the Minister if they will have support for competitiveness when investing in the country. It would be fundamental, it would be differentiation. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u33	We now move on to the Parliamentary Group of the Reach. To speak, Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u34	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't want to start...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u35	Then don't start!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u36	... to make this statement without addressing you, Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, for a period before the agenda. Today, at least this seems to us, he pointed out the 50 years of the Wiriamu massacre and stated that Portugal should ask for forgiveness. I did not want to start this session today without saying, Mr President of the House, that these statements do not represent us, do not represent the Portuguese Armed Forces,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u37	... and that is not well enough, to a President of the Assembly of the Republic, on behalf of, you do not know who, to launch an anathema about the Portuguese Armed Forces, about the history of Portugal, especially a country that has never apologized to the thousands of Portuguese victims who have been buried there without any justice. [[Congrats from the CH.]] After the transition, the Mozambican guerrillas killed more than 3000 Portuguese, Mr. President. There were 400 victims that Mr. President identified in Wiriamu. More than 3,000 were driven by the independence forces, and they were innocent families there. Mozambique never apologized. The Mozambican armed forces never apologized. Why the hell in the world are we gonna apologize? Oh, my God! [[Congrats from the CH.]] The Minister, in 2019, Antonio Costa, Prime Minister, said she would adopt the rule of not having family members in the Council of Ministers. This was defined by Antonio Costa himself, who, in an interview, said that there would be no problem now because we would not have family members in the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u38	There are no family members already in the Parliamentary Group of Arrival!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u39	Look who's talking!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u40	Look who's talking!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u41	May I ask the PS Parliamentary Groups and the Arrival to allow the speaker to continue? Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u42	Mr. President, after António Costa's theimosia in maintaining Miguel Alves, he was replaced by the brother of Ms. Minister Ana Catarina Mendes. And right now, we have Minister Ana Catarina Mendes coordinating the parliamentary work of the ministers and we have Mr Ana Catarina Mendes' brother to coordinate the political work of the government. I'd like to know what changed to change the rule. Has the rule changed? What happened? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u43	Before I give the floor to the Minister of the Presidency, I must respond to the request made to me by Mr André Ventura. I respond in a very simple way. Please ask the honourable Member why I apologize today for celebrating 50 years of the Wiriamu massacre. I apologize for not having to deal with massacres. [[P.S. and BE Members' Applause.]] I apologize for being humanists. [[P.S. and BE Members' Applause.]] And yes, I also apologize on behalf of the Portuguese Armed Forces, which on 25 April 1974 freed us from the infamous regime that committed this massacre. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u44	Mr President, honourable Member, the powers relating to the composition of the Government are of the Prime Minister. It is the Prime Minister who decides that Ministers and State Secretaries should propose to the President of the Republic and, of course, I have absolutely nothing to add to this. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u45	Mr Ventura, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u46	Mr President, Mrs Minister, I asked you that question because it was questioned, also by the journalists, in the days following the appointment, and you will have spoken on this matter. I would therefore ask you to answer on behalf of the Government, since it says that it is the number two of the Government. I believe that being the number two of the Government allows you to make some considerations on behalf of the Government and not just say that it is the competence of the Prime Minister. Otherwise there was no need for a number two, there was only number one and number two was unnecessary. But I already realized that the government will not say anything about it. You're going to keep exactly the same strategy you've had. Then you see how things work out. Mrs. Minister, we've been full in a large part of the country. Some municipalities had the luck of their visit, others of another political colour, did not have the luck of their visit. Some have, not others, but there is one thing that is certain: everyone, or almost all, criticized the enormous bureaucracy that the government is implementing in support and it is not known at this time what support we will have, how much we will have and when they will be paid. There are three very simple questions that most of the autoarchs in the country are asking at this time. How much will the government provide for support to families, restaurants, commercial establishments and services, which, tragically, have been destroyed with these fillings? And I hope, Mrs Minister, that it will not happen the same as with the measures to support the covid-19 pandemic, in which 15 of the 24 were completely useless, according to the Court of Auditors. What measures do we have to support these people? When will they be paid and how much do we have to support our economy and those who have been affected by the crowd in the last few weeks? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u47	In reply, you have the floor of the Minister of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a fact that Mr. Journalists asked me the same question you asked. They are here and can confirm that I have answered exactly the same as I have answered Mr. And, therefore, if it is to speak of coherence, it is here: this is a competence of the Prime Minister. Mr President, at two moments last week there were very intense rain days. At some times, it rained more at that time than 10% of the total rain that fell in the same territories last year. What the government did was, on Friday, to meet with those who, according to civil protection, were the municipalities that had more recorded occurrences at that first night of time. at that meeting, all of you listen. Presidents of the Chamber, they identified the areas in which they had most damage. You will certainly imagine that, while water levels are still high, as they are in Loures, not even the honourable Members. Presidents of the Chamber can tell what damage they have in those territories. The honourable Member, I hope, will know that territory well. What was combined? It was agreed that, by the end of the year, if municipalities had this availability, or by January 15, if they needed more time, the municipalities would identify, in a form that has already been made available, the damage caused in the territories. It was not with much bureaucracy: in some cases, it was enough photographs of the occurrences, to show the basic quantification of those damage, so that the Government could take, by the end of the year, if we receive during the next week, as at this time, the information we say will happen— the necessary decisions to mobilise the Municipal Emergency Fund (EMF) for the damage included in this fund, to define a methodology to support small trade, which is one of the most affected areas, a methodology that the Government expects to be simple and fast, provided that with validated information. What we cannot be in this House is half the time to respond if we guarantee the Court of Auditors that we are making the right use of public money and the other half the time to say that we have to give support when the damage is not even assessed. A balance is needed in this area and this is the balance that the Government is following. On the other hand, Mr Member, there are many people working on the ground, from social security to civil protection, from the Armed Forces to the Ministry of the Environment, together with the cameras and the CCDR-LVT (Lisbon and Tejo Valley) and Alentejo, given the second day of time, and we are working very hard to respond to people as soon as possible. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u49	Mr Ventura, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u50	Mr. President, Minister, you see? That's what the Portuguese don't understand. Note: "Let's evaluate the damage, we'll expect the information to be sent by the end of the year, or by January 15, then the government will gather and, in its own form, we'll decide what to do. » Explain that to the people who have lost everything and are watching her on TV!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u51	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u52	They must say: "Well, then there's to come the form and there's to come anything written and there we have to evaluate the government whether we're going to have support or not. » This is bureaucracy, Mrs. Minister. That is why almost all the autarchs, after meeting with you, said: "We are very concerned about this excess of bureaucracy. » There was only one political family that didn't say so, that of the PS. But you will forgive me for not giving you the same degree of impartiality as all others. All the other autarchs, all or almost all, said: "We are very concerned about the bureaucracy that the government is involved in this matter. Do not keep on seeking. ” People need support now! There are companies, small establishments that need liquidity right now. We can't take the time we spent giving the support of the covered 19 pandemic. When the support comes, there are no companies anymore, they're no longer there and they don't need any money anymore. This is the history of the government, this thing of forms and bureaucracy, and then on January 15th — see, January 15th! — It will have been a month of full time! Until the Government decides whether there is a Council of Ministers, until it defines whether the NIF(tax identification number) or IBAN ( International Bank Account Number ) has to be on the form for three months! There are companies that can't stand! Finally, Mrs Minister, because my time is also short, I would like to say the following: on the follow-up to the PRR, the PSD referred to credible institutions. Mrs. Minister disagrees, but I will give her a name that Mrs. Minister will not disagree, which is Mrs. Mário Centeno himself, Governor of Banco de Portugal and former Minister of Finance, who says that the implementation rate of the PRR has remained far below the forecast. He's a former socialist minister who says that! Now you're going to question him too, saying that the man is wrong and trying to throw sand on top of the government? Oh, my God! So, Minister, this has to be solved. We have had the Court of Auditors to identify 16 of the 24 measures of the Government to cover-19 that we have been discussing here for two years and that the Court of Auditors says that they are absolutely useless.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u53	The honourable Member has to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u54	That should lead them to take responsibility. Take responsibility for that! Take responsibility for this failure of the government! Now we have a PRR executed half. We're in December and the money doesn't reach the companies, the IPSS, the families. Do you assume responsibility for that? That's what the Portuguese wanted to know! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u55	In reply, you have the floor of the Minister of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what I said was that, according to the meetings we have done with the municipalities, during the next week we will receive a first survey of damage that the municipalities are doing — that is, they have not yet done so — and, if we receive this survey, the government will take a decision still this year. The date of January 15 is in the case of municipalities that do not have the ability to make the survey. That can happen, Mr President, because we still have territories where damage cannot be done. What I can guarantee is that we will look for the simplest possible system, which defends traders, families and municipalities and also Portuguese taxpayers in the sense that public resources are used for damage that actually existed and are recorded. I believe that is what is expected of a member of the government. As for the assumption of responsibilities, Mr President, neither today nor will you ever see me take responsibility for what the government does. What I do is a very positive balance of these seven years of government, even in areas where the honourable Member has always been against, such as, for example, the strengthening of the capacity of municipalities to respond in the most various matters, particularly in education, health, civil protection, in this proximity response that already allows shops to be cleaned, after the full work they have had, with the work of municipalities and many public bodies. We're working, we'll be quick. That is the compromise I make here and I will respond to it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u57	We now move on to the Liberal Initiative. To put your questions, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister, some time ago, a report said that the Minister had the ability in her presence to calm António Costa. I think what country all needs to know: how many weeks ago did it not meet Antonio Costa? [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u59	If the Minister wants to answer this question, she has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u60	Mr. President, thank you very much. I just want to say that the country is currently experiencing an inflationary crisis, families are living with difficulties, we have had a lot in recent days that have deeply affected various territories, and being a minister in this Parliament to answer the questions of the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, my expectation was that we could at least focus on problems that exist. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[IL-protests and PS-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u61	I ask for silence. Mr Guimarães Pinto has the floor and I ask the House to hear it carefully. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u62	Mr President, Madam Minister, I think the problem of the dignity of institutions is a serious problem. It's really serious. [[Protests of PS Members.]] Now, what Dr. António Costa has done in recent weeks is to challenge the dignity of the institutions. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u63	I therefore appeal to the Minister to regain her calming effect. Make peace with Mr. Prime Minister. Be with him again and have that calming effect that he had on Mr. Prime Minister, in order to be able to return to the government the dignity that the government should have. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u64	Every year, Portuguese companies are required to submit to the State a report listing their employees with information such as: age, position, qualifications, sex, among others. This database is then used by the INE ( National Institute of Statistics ), the Banco de Portugal, by universities, to do research on human resources policy in order to better understand the labour market in the country. It's an essential database. This database joins another database for which companies also have to contribute to revenue information, type of expenditure they make, etc. They are very important databases for which all entities have to contribute. All, of course, except for public sector entities that the State has protected this obligation for more than two decades. As in many other cases, the Portuguese State imposes an obligation on private entities which it refuses to comply with. This is no novelty in this country. Last week, ASAE ( Food and Economic Security Authority ) announced that it had applied a set of fines due to lack of information duty to companies that, on their websites or in their email subscriptions, did not put something as simple as, after a number started by 2, report that it is a fixed network number. Therefore, ASAE announced that it had done this. Interestingly, even though we are fined private companies for doing this, not even the Parliament's website, which has passed the law, complies with this measure which has been obliged, not the ASAE itself, nor does the Socialist Party's website comply with this obligation. [[PS Member Protests Marcos Perestrello.]] Calm down, calm down! Open... But it is even more serious in the specific case of the database, because the existence of this database would be essential for there to be scrutiny on how the government uses taxpayer money. Something that does not exist and that would allow us to know - the body, the Directorate-General, the Directorate-General, the observatory, how public money is spent, in particular where they are, what they do and how public officials have been promoted. in the same way, it would allow us - to know how public bodies spend taxpayers' money, because what happens right now is that the Public Administration is a large "black box" where, outside, you can only see the large items of expenditure, without ever realizing how these items are actually spent. We do not know how the EUR 30 billion of revenue has been spent by the State in recent years. We don't know! We have large sections in the State budget, but we do not understand exactly, body the body, how this money is spent. We do not know, for example, how the Ministry of Education spends €6200 per student, when, at much less than that, many private schools offer a quality service higher than a lower cost. Question: how much of this money, of this €6200, never really reaches schools, never really reaches teachers' wages, the wages of school workers? How much of this €6200 is actually diluted in the multiple central government bodies and in all those bodies that are created year after year? We do not know this because, by choice of the Portuguese State, public entities are not obliged to provide the same type of accounts as any small, medium or large company is obliged to provide. Public entities are not required to provide the type of information to which we require private companies. This is not only unfair as political decision-makers are making politics blind. In all the State budgets, new working groups, new observatories, new bodies are approved, without ever knowing how much they will cost and, above all, how much they already cost the present bodies that should often be doing exactly the same thing.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u65	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u66	So my question is, when will the data that exist today for all private entities become available to public bodies and Directorates-General? This is because I know that this opacity is useful for those who like to exercise power without scrutiny, but it is not useful for democracy. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u67	You now have the floor to answer, Mrs President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have already talked about the last time I was here during the discussion of the State budget on the importance that the Government attaches to the existence of this information database on employees of the Public Administration. at that time, I had the opportunity to tell him that there had been a problem with the previous procedure, but also to assure him that by the end of 2023, the State would have this information available. That is exactly the same date I keep, as I told you in November. The importance of information for political decision-making is very large and in the Public Administration there is work to be done. That is why this is one of the major investments of the Recovery and Resilience Plan, within the framework of the digitalization of Public Administration, Recovery and Resilience Plan, let me, in fact, tell you and also all Mrs. Members, for which the European Commission has just approved the second request for payment, which we had submitted in September. [[P.S.'s applause.]] the PRR contains many digitisation programmes—in the area of justice, in the area of social security, in the area of public administration as a whole—which will be very relevant for more and better information. In any case, Mr President, both in the synthesis of public employment and in the information that the DGO (Directorate-General of the Budget) makes public every month, there is an enormous amount of information that allows for an informed public debate and that is always a more appropriate instrument for public debate than questions that are more of the sphere of political comment than the sphere of parliamentary debate. Our great concern when we arrived to the government in 2015 was to recover the Public Administration in what had been a gigantic destruction, with the exit of people and people, year after year, weakening the public services that respond to citizens, the public services of proximity, but also weakening the public services and the ability of the Public Administration to know their country, to know their administration and to be able to define public policies that can transform our lives for the better. That is the purpose we are working on, and that is what we will continue to do with the investments of the PRR. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u69	We now turn to the CFP Parliamentary Group, with the floor of Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the circumstances in which we live in our country, the question we want to put to the Minister concerns the rights of employees of the Public Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u71	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u72	If we want to have a public administration that responds to the needs of citizens, this is not done without workers and workers valued in their wages, careers and rights. [[PCP applause.]] It is unfortunate that these are not the options on the part of the Government, because what we heard of its initial intervention in relation to wages, particularly the employees of the Public Administration, does not respond to the needs. A little while ago, the Minister, in her speech, made a reference to the inflationary escalation; but what she brought here is exactly the same as she had mentioned last month and the situation is not the same, it has worsened, it is getting worse day after day and so it will continue in 2023.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u73	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u74	And the government's answer, what is it? It is important that workers become impoverished, that they be forced to continue to lose purchasing power. This is deeply unacceptable, because what is lacking to the workers, in the valuation of their wages, is what the government has, and much, in tax exemptions and benefits, in subsidies for the economic groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u75	Hands wide!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u76	The Minister said that balance was important, that such an agreement was a balanced proposal and that budgetary sustainability is important. And the sustainability of the workers' lives?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u77	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u78	What about stability? What about your security? What about trust? And the guarantee that this year and 2023 will have the conditions to continue to fulfil the responsibilities and commitments they have made? This is why the Government does not respond, by political choice, because in the State budget, which it referred to in its intervention, rather than valuing wages, regaining and valuing the purchasing power of workers, the government's choice was quite different. It was indeed a great deal of work for the interests of the economic groups. But I would like to tell you more specifically the following: INE data for November refer to an inflation of 9.9%. Energy products have increased by 24, 8 %; unprocessed food products by 18, 4 %; accumulated inflation from 2009 to 2021 by 12, 2 % and by 2022 we are talking about nearly 20 % of accumulated inflation in recent years. And what the government is talking about is an increase in the wage mass by 5 to 1 %? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u79	Payroll!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u80	payroll, it's not even salary! Mrs. Minister, this is very serious! The question I would like to ask you, Mrs Minister, is whether the Government will in fact insist on this loss of purchasing power, pushing workers into impoverishment, or whether once and for all it will move forward with a real negotiation process with the representative structures of workers, so that wages can recover purchasing power and are effectively valued.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u81	In reply, you have the floor of the Minister of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u82	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, when we discussed the State Budget, I had the opportunity to present the Government's public administration strategy. It is true that the Portuguese Communist Party does not agree with it, but it is also true that this strategy of increasing the income of families in a balanced way and continuing to have balanced public accounts—because they are the guarantor not of the public accounts themselves, but of the way we can do, of improving the incomes of families—was the political option borne by the Portuguese, and that is why the government applies that. It is not worth limiting the Government's response to the problem of inflation to the updating of public administration salaries. It is important and therefore we have sought to ensure that, throughout the legislature, the path we define allows to recover from the real loss of purchasing power that may exist, but it is not the only answer. That is why it is relevant that the lowest wages and the minimum national wage rise above the inflation expected for this year, that income is limited to a 2 % update and that the value of public transport does not suffer an increase.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u83	The transport pass can't buy milk!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u84	It is also important, therefore, the extraordinary capacity that the labour market in Portugal has guaranteed not to give in to the difficult moment that the economy lives, with the creation of 550 000 jobs since 2015, with a 24 % increase in net monthly income up to the third quarter of 2023, with the very significant reduction in the number of people in part-time employment with what Parliament is preparing to approve on the Dignified Work Agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u85	People are impoverished working!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u86	It is also very relevant to the work we are doing and the measures that, together with housing policy, we have developed in order to help families live better — the social rate of energy, the increase in family allowance, which, in fact, we have continued to increase even more — provided that the CFP understood that there are no conditions to continue to follow this policy of increasing incomes and improving the living conditions of families, as it did until last year. [[PCP protests.]] As far as our answer to public service is concerned, you can naturally disagree with it in your legitimate right and that is even very healthy for our democracy, but what we cannot say is that there has not been a real negotiation process. We have sought, since the first hour, to develop an open negotiation with trade union structures, which goes beyond the annual salary update, which implies some topics that, as you know, have been on the agenda for a long time, such as the review of the single pay table and the revision of SIADAP, which we will start next January, but on which one of the problems was already solved, which was the one of the points that were lost at the time of career progression. It is an open, very serious negotiation path, and we want it to be extended to other dimensions, such as the organization of working time. Therefore, Mrs. Member, we can always disagree, but that the negotiation process has been frank, serious and intense, and so it will continue, that cannot deny. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u87	Mr Paula Santos, from the CFP, has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u88	Mr President, in fact, the CFP does not follow options that lead to impoverishment, to the loss of purchasing power on the part of workers, because that is what the Government is doing.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u89	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u90	Is the Minister referring to the public accounts and the balance that is necessary when we talk about the wages of workers, but to transfer EUR 3000 million to the companies in the energy sector, there is no problem with the public accounts anymore? Oh, my God! This is the big issue that is on the table: the transfer of resources from work to capital. And what should be being decided here was something else. In view of the situation in this country where inflation is 9, 9 %, but unprocessed food goods, for example, rose 18 %...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u91	Or more!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u92	... and energy increased by 25 %. We are in winter and many families don't even have the conditions to warm up, because they don't have the economic possibilities to do so. And does the Minister speak of balance, of public accounts, when the living conditions of the people, families, and workers are getting worse and worse? Oh, my God! Actually, you don't have the PCP for this. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u93	Mr Minister, prices will continue to rise in 2023 and what is evident here is the insufficiency of the options taken by the Government to prevent this worsening of living conditions and this impoverishment. Still this week, the government decided to allocate more € 240 to families of greater vulnerability. Do you know what this reveals, Minister? In addition to being a timely approach to the structural problem we are experiencing, it reveals that the government has not taken the necessary measures, i.e. the recovery of wages. It's just that prices will increase every month...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u94	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u95	... and what responds to workers, to all workers, including employees of the Public Administration, is the valuation of wages.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u96	Put that money in wages!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u97	Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to raise another issue. With regard to TRU and career progression, I mean that it is essential to value careers. But this can't just be for the words, it has to be done in concrete. And I would like to ask the Minister what the Government intends to do so that, indeed, replacement, valorization and career progression will be a reality. Today, when a worker enters the Public Administration, he does not even have the prospect of reaching the top of the career, because that is not possible. Therefore, having valuable careers is a question that needs to be resolved, because this also enables the public administration and public services provided to citizens to be valued. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u98	In reply, you have the floor of the Minister of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u99	Mr President, the measures that the Government took yesterday in support of families, 1 million families, reveal that the government is fulfilling what it has committed to. [[Ui!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u100	And it was as follows: when inflation varied over the year 2022 than the international institutions did, the government undertook to follow this development with support, which was at one time for all people with salaries up to €2700 or now for the deprived families. When we look at the evolution of wages that we expect for next year, it takes into account the inflation that has existed, with increases for the lowest wages in the order of 8 % and then with a varying value. Just as inflation does not affect all families in the same way, the protection and growth of wages are not done in the same way. That is what they reveal the measures we took yesterday. I believe that the Portuguese Communist Party does not object to the fact that, at the moment inflation evolves more seriously than expected, we follow and update the support we had planned.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u101	Increase wages!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u102	In the Government Programme, one of the main objectives we have assumed was to increase the weight of wages in GDP ( gross domestic product ). [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] What we have proposed, in the context of social consultation, and what we will do in the Public Administration, throughout the legislature, over these four years, is precisely to ensure this objective of increasing the weight of wages in GDP. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That was the commitment we made, including — as they will read in both agreements, indeed — to be able to look back at the evolution of the expected wages due to the effective evolution of GDP and inflation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u103	It is a'suppose'! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u104	Mrs. Minister, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u105	I will finish, Mr. President. She also referred to the subject of career development. This is the theme that we have on our agenda from January 2023, that of being able to look at SIADAP, revising it in order to accelerate progression in general careers. That is the compromise we have and on which we will begin negotiations in January. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u106	We now move on to the Left Block Parliamentary Group. Mr. José Soeiro has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u107	Mr President, Minister, has just recovered the idea that one of the main objectives of the Government is to increase the weight of wages in GDP. We know that inflation in November was 9, 8 %. Between July 2021 and October 2022, the price index — therefore inflation — increased 11, 4 %. The Minister spoke here of the income agreement, the agreement for the salaries of the Public Administration, but what we know, and it is objective, is that GDP grows more than wages, real wages are returning and there is a real and permanent loss of workers' wages, which is neither compensated nor in dignity, nor in purchasing power with spot support. while we know that people are losing purchasing power yesterday, the Prime Minister announced that, after all, he will have a EUR 1000 million strike in relation to the deficit he had planned. while people are losing purchasing power, because of inflation, the government continues to say that it remains committed to reducing the huge imbalance in the distribution of income between work and capital. What we know is that between 2020 and the time we are living, the weight of wages in GDP has fallen 0, 4 % and, for the year, wages will fall 2, 4 %. This means a much greater transfer of income from work to capital than happened in the troika period. Much bigger! So, Minister, I would like to ask you the following: in 2022 and 2023, how much will wages be lost in GDP? In other words, how much will this inequality increase, with the measures of the government? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u108	In reply, you have the floor of the Minister of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u109	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what I think we have is a disagreement about what the policy of the right accounts brought to the country, because the honourable Member thinks it has brought strikes and the government believes it has brought the ability to develop more public policies and to create more social responses. That has been what since 2015 the policy of the right accounts has brought to the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Or how do we think it was possible to climb the way we took the family allowance? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u110	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u111	How do we understand that it was possible to strengthen, as we have strengthened, the capacity and number of SNS professionals? Oh, my God! How does it feel that it was possible to continue to recover the number of workers who had ceased to exist in our public school and who once again existed? Oh, my God! It was thanks to the politics of the right accounts, it was thanks to the interest that our country no longer had to pay for its debt. I thought that when the Left Block recognized about its own party the importance of the right accounts, it was because it also recognized for the country the importance of that balance, but not after all. [[BE's protests.]] It is because there was a time when the Left Block understood and gave the Portuguese the ability to understand that, over four years, a path is defined and that, year after year, we will meet this objective. What I have said to the Member of the CFP is exactly what I have said to the Member of the Left Block: the Government has made this commitment. If you read both the agreement signed at the centre of social consultation, as well as the agreement we have made with public administration unions, there you will read that the goal is to be able to revisit the path that we define there, whose accounts are public and that, in our perspective, will strengthen the weight of wages in the country's wealth over these four years. He tells me that this is not happening in 2022, or that it is not happening in 2023. Our commitment is that, throughout the Legislature, in this time horizon, we can achieve the goal that we define. And, as I said, we have always manifested ourselves, including in writing, available to revisit the path we have made, according to this objective that we have maintained. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u112	Mr José Soeiro, from the Left Block, has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u113	Mr President, Madam Minister, I note that it does not contradict the forecast that for the year the weight of wages in GDP will decrease by 2, 4 % and therefore we will be faced with the greater transfer of labour income to the capital of this millennium. As for certain accounts, yes, we will talk about certain accounts, because the Minister of Finance assured in this Parliament a few weeks ago that the deficit would be 1, 9 %. We thought they were true accounts, but yesterday the Prime Minister came to say that, after all, it was not that the deficit was going to be smaller and that there were EUR 1 billion, I repeat, EUR 1 billion off the projected deficit. Mrs. Minister, there was room, but wages would lose real value. And even the salary agreement for the Public Administration, which is under its direct protection, means that, on average, wages will lose real purchasing power.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u114	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u115	In other words, public administration workers will be impoverished, but the Prime Minister yesterday came to say: "No, we have more EUR 1 billion than we thought. Do not keep on seeking. ” There was room to comply with the pension law, it was proven. There was room for social security to comply with the pension law. What was the Socialist Party's policy? It was to suspend the pension law and say « we will compensate with extraordinary support, paid in October », but which has as a consequence a real and permanent cut in pensioners' income and suspension of the pension law and increase, which was pensioners' by law. What is this? Oh, my God! This may be a lot of things, but it certainly is not a left-wing policy, certainly it is not a policy to strengthen the social state and social policies! But the Government has come to announce — the Minister has already mentioned it — yesterday, at the departure of the Council of Ministers, the adoption of the decree for extraordinary support. What guarantees the dignity of people is a decent wage, social rights and substitute income of wages, which are social rights, is not to have, depending on how the government manages its budgetary photograph, spot support that does not interfere with the structure of inequality and that is not rights. Even on unemployment, the unemployment allowance rules still have all the cuts that have been made. I mean, everyone, no, except one, but they still have the cut in the period of granting the unemployment benefit. In the social unemployment allowance, which is one of the universes that will be covered by the measure of € 240, the government did not change even the measure of the troika for the social unemployment benefit, did not change even the reference and the condition of resources for the social unemployment benefit. We have social protection in unemployment which has been profoundly degraded. If you want to move structurally in the conditions of workers' dignity, move in wages, pensions and social protection. We have a policy of impoverishment at the moment, which is a real loss of wages and which will not be compensated for these extraordinary support, which, above all, are overcome by relative injustice. A worker who is not covered by the family allowance of 1. the e of the 2. the steps will not receive this support, even if you have the same difficulties, an income to pay or a benefit that increased 100 €, 200 €, 300 € or 400 €. The Minister says that these support is the way the Government is following the inflationist phenomenon. Mr Minister, this is not to follow the inflationist phenomenon; this is support that the government is distributing according to its own needs to manage the deficit, but that does not mean dignity, nor changes in structural inequality, which is the effect of government choices, when it compresses wages and cuts in pensions. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u116	In reply, you have the floor of the Minister of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u117	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if we want to look at what has happened since 2015 to the salaries of the Public Administration and to inflation, we can also look at that.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u118	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u119	Between 2015 and 2021, inflation rose by about 7, 6 % and public administration salaries 12, 1 %. We do not look at reality and choose the exact time period to which we seek to answer. That was, as I said recently, what I thought the Left Block understood between 2015 and 2020 and which, by the way, forgot. We define a path, a path that is sustainable. ‘Sustainable’ does not mean that it has margins or that it has a space that is not used at all. It is a space that has been used to lower the price of social passes, it is a space that has been used to increase family allowance, it is a space that has been used to guarantee free manuals, it is a space that has been used to lower the value of propines, it is a space that has been used in things that have become positive in the lives of Portuguese and Portuguese. That's why it's good to have certain public accounts. At the end of these years, if we continue to want to put a label between what is left-wing and what is no longer, what I can tell you, honourable Member, is that voters who consider themselves left-wing also knew where the left-wing policies were that better protected their future.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u120	Don't! That's not what they said!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u121	They didn't say they were cuts in wages in real terms! That's very clear!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u122	That's what we have on the table. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u123	We have, until the end of this legislature, a path that, as I said, allows us to meet the main objective we have set in this matter, in our Government Programme, which is to increase the weight of wages in the total wealth of the country, and we are available to look at the path we have defined and correct it, if necessary. But, Mr President, if sometimes we do not do exactly what was planned, that is because we grew up more than we originally planned and not because things are worse than we originally planned. So what I mean is this: the government, for this year 2022, which is in a very volatile situation that everyone recognises—all but the Left Block, who already knew exactly how the year was going to end— has defined a methodology. I would like to say that we have added layers and support measures in the area of energy, transport and support for families, and what we have done, ensuring precisely the dignity that Mr spoke about, was to update the minimum wage to the highest ever value and update the IAS (indicating social support) to 8%, precisely so that social policies can monitor this wage update. We will continue our path, which is respect for the workers, which is respect for the space of trade union negotiation and that is growth in the country and improving the lives of families. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u124	You now have the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real of the PAN to question the Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u125	Mr. President, I welcome you. Members of the Government, the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Madam Minister, today we agreed with one of the biggest specialists in climate change to warn us that the climate is angry with us, and I would say that right. We just look at your first intervention and see that you didn't, unless you were asked by this House, a word for the issue of fillings, a serious problem that is affecting our country, to realize that it's not just the climate that should be angry, so we all have to be. On the whole, I would like to ask you a few questions. We must not forget that the Minister said that the damage would still be assessed, but there is something that the Government can and must do, regardless of whether to wait for the process of lifting all the damage — in this regard, we all agree that it is necessary to do — but in an unburricated and simplified way, so that the aid will arrive as soon as possible to whom it needs. I am therefore talking about the evaluation by some municipalities that have already estimated the damage by around EUR 20 million, EUR 14 million and other lower values. But when we look at the Social Emergency Fund, in this case the Municipal Emergency Fund, what we see is that it has an amount of EUR 3 million. Now, Madam Minister, it seems to us that this value is manifestly insufficient for the calamity that is being experienced and that it will have to be strengthened. And, of course, the question I ask you is whether or not the government will substantially strengthen this fund to deal with the support that municipalities will need to help the people. On the other hand, in order for the same thing to be activated, it is necessary to declare the state of calamity. Loures has already asked for it and what it is necessary to realize is what the government will do, because, of the two, one : or declares the state of calamity, or, then, has to do a process similar to what happened in the Serra da Estrela... [[In the meantime, he took the presidency of Vice-President Adam Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u126	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u127	I really am concluding, Mr President. As I was saying, either the government declares the state of calamity, or makes a process similar to what it has done for the Serra da Estrela, so that this mechanism can be invoked extraordinarily and also to ensure that municipalities can exceed the limits of indebtedness.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u128	If I may, I would like to thank the Minister for the Presidency, the Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Members of Parliament. Secretary of State, the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. I give the floor immediately to the Minister of the Presidency to answer the questions that Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has asked her. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u129	Mr. President, I greet you too. Madam Member, what the Government was able to guarantee, on Friday last, to the municipalities affected by the first night of time and which, after that, necessarily, extended to all others who also suffered the effects of these rains, was that it would not fail to resort to any of the national or European responses, depending on the size of these disasters. As you know, there are criteria for making use of different aid schemes and the government will use them all. It will update the Municipal Emergency Fund, if necessary, take additional measures, because there are certain types of damage that are not covered by the types of the Municipal Emergency Fund, and will take the decisions that the Council of Ministers needs to take in order to be able to act on these mechanisms, which do not lack the definition of the state of disaster, only the Council of Ministers is in need of approval of the measures it wants to take, assessing the context and the implications of the storm damage. That's exactly what we're doing. Yesterday, there was already a new meeting at the CCDR in Lisbon and we are already receiving the survey of the municipalities. I would like to take this opportunity to tell you that, as you well know, there are structural work dimensions in these territories that need to be continued, which have European funds dedicated to this effect, because the only thing we certainly have is that the pace of this kind of storm will accelerate with climate change and we must be prepared to respond to it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u130	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor now to put the questions he understands.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u131	Mr. President, Dear and Dear colleagues, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs Minister, have been on the ground to see the effects of the fillings. What you saw is what you also tell us about the land: shops that, by the middle of its height, were covered with water; a health center that does not yet work; unfortunately, a life to regret, a fellow citizen of ours who died in the basement where she lived with her husband; and many, many examples of merchants who are thinking about abandoning their activity branch, because, above all, this happened at the worst height of all, that of Christmas, which is the one in which they would have most income. This isn't normal, but it'll be more and more normal. So the question is this: while we try to find solutions to speed up the aid to which we have suffered the effects of these fillies—and there have already been several questions, which I will not repeat, on that— we have to think about what we can do to, from now on, because this can happen again, already this winter, we have a form of action that is sent forth, but also credible and reliable, from the point of view of documentary scrutiny and of the expenditure of resources that are all, to act always in these situations. I would like to know if there is any reflection on this matter. In particular, we have the mission unit for the new Green Pact, approved in the Budget for 2022. As far as it is from our knowledge, the office to create it is ready and we have a few days until the Budget for 2022 is fulfilled, and, among its tasks,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u132	Look at the weather!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u133	... we must precisely identify and designate priority areas of action, in terms of prevention, preparation and mitigation of the effects of climate change. We all agree that we need to combat long-term climate change, but that does not help us to resolve issues about drainage, dams or barriers, which have to be built if possible next year.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u134	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u135	I will finish, but I believe that we are all seeing the picture of the times and, knowing that the Presidency has changed, a certain consistency is expected in the application of these times. [[Protests of CH Deputies.]] ...and less protests than those who have abused the most in those days.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u136	Time's up!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u137	Finally, Madam Minister, I believe that I agree with this: the increase in family allowance is one of the most direct ways in which we have to help the most vulnerable, not with spot support, but with structural support. [[Protests of CH Deputies.]] We heard yesterday that there are 800 million, that is, 4 tenths of the deficit that are beyond what the government itself thought was reasonable to have deficit in 2022, which means that, for example, with 270 million, we can increase family allowance by 30%. Will the government consider this measure?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u138	You now have the floor to answer, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u139	Mr President, what I saw in the municipalities I visited was indeed a great capacity on the part of the authorities, with the collaboration of firefighters, civil protection, the military, the institutions of the Ministry of the Environment, to recover, with a very impressive speed, the first impact of these damage. What we are committed to is also giving our rapid response capacity right now. The honourable Member is right: knowing that these types of phenomena will be more frequent, we may need a structural response that can be more quickly activated. I believe that the most important thing right now is to respond, but I think it is a reflection that we need to make, in order to have instruments pre-prepared for rapid action in the face of these situations. Mr President, the House has just approved the State budget for 2023. Our expectation is that its implementation will significantly reduce child poverty, with the increase in the family allowance we have made and also with the provision for the childhood we have created, and here we will be going to correct what needs to be corrected. For now, we have a budget with very high social support, with the updating of the IAS to 8% and the extension of the social benefits we have created, and that is the way we have to go. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u140	We will now move on to the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. We have two gentlemen. Registered Members, who will manage the 9 minutes that are assigned to them in the way they understand. You have the floor immediately, Mr Carlos Pereira, to put your questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u141	Mr President, I welcome the Ministers and the Ministers. State Secretaries. First of all, as a previous note, I wanted to leave a word of appreciation and importance for these sectoral debates, because they allow in fact to deepen topics with the right interlocutors, those who are, as is said in good Portuguese, with the « hand in the mass»,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u142	Watch out for that! The PS with the ‘hand in the mass’? Oh, my God! ... Watch out for that!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u143	... thanks to a contribution from PS and PSD that seems very relevant to me. I would like to begin by saying that I will focus on matters relating to European funds, European support. Finally, before that, I would like to make some comments on some comments made by the other parliamentary groups, and of course I will not focus on any of the comments on the left, the Bloc and the CFP, for obvious reasons, insofar as they do not agree with Europe, therefore it makes no sense even to talk about programmes originating in the European Union, so I will concentrate on the right, particularly on the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u144	It's not the right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u145	We must remember, first of all, something that seems very important to me. The PSD has brought the usual, expectable questions, so let us say, as regards the implementation, and we all know, because we follow this process—and there are Members who have been accompanying this process for a long time, that of the PRR in particular—that the PSD has never mobilized much for a programme of this nature after the pandemic. You never even got excited about it. We saw Mr. Prime Minister António Costa in Brussels trying to push for such a program, but, finally, the PSD swirled into the air, showed no interest in it. In fact, reading some news on the PSD website — nothing better than going to the most appropriate source, I think they will not say this is wrong — it is easy to see this: « Rui Rio: « The government is from the beginning of the pandemic waiting for the ‘European miracle’ ». This is not from someone who is truly interested in having a program that can somehow recover the country. But, moreover, one PSD member says: « Stability Programme is an early confession of the failure of the Recovery and Resilience Plan. » Nor does it seem to me that this is a sign of enormous enthusiasm for this program...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u146	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u147	...or even an effort to ensure that this can be interesting. We also have another PSD leader saying that the Portuguese have not fallen into the sink of the rain of millions in Brussels. So once again, it is clear that we are talking about a programme — and we have had PSD interventions to demonstrate it — why the PSD has never been truly interested in it and for which it has not even had a decisive contribution to it. This deserves to be emphasized.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u148	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u149	The second note is to say that the PSD, when it realized that the PRR was going to be a reality, appeared in public and said: "We agree, but we have a different program. We do not agree with that programme, we have a different». And they did a program—it is a good thing, in politics, to do something as it should be—the program is done, in fact, by the current parliamentary leader, it is also on the PSD website, and — they appear, Portuguese! — I have already said this, but it is worth saying it again at a time when we are talking about the PRR and the PSD bench is being scandalized, the PSD program has interesting things. For example, for the PSD, the contribution to the National Health Service should be 1000 million ; now for the PS, it is 1400 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u150	Yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u151	Those who say that more money is needed for health, etc. in the case of the PRR, they propose 1000 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u152	Implementation : zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u153	In the case of Digital School, PSD proposes 400 million; PS has already proposed 559 million. [[Protests from PSD MP Fatima Ramos.]] That is, the PSD proposed much less than the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u154	Implementation : zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u155	For companies — and the PSDs took so many months to say that the PRR did not look at companies, it was a failure in terms of the economic fabric — the current parliamentary leader proposed, in his study, 5000 million; the PS already proposed 6 billion. Ending with loans at a time when money was actually needed to feed the economy, the PSD proposed 1555 million;...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u156	Looks like The Price Right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u157	... already the PS proposed 2770 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u158	It's always a little bit!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u159	What about the execution? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u160	Therefore, it seems very relevant to me to say that you speak, they speak, but when the time comes to help people, to help businesses, to help the National Health Service, to help the public school, they propose far less than the PS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, you are proposing even more in the cuts to workers, in the cuts to wages, in the cuts to pensions. That's what you guys are doing very well!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u161	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u162	I would also like to make another comment which seems very important to me. Mr. Minister, when we continued with the PRR-related process, we realized that the PSD was something frightened, because, after all, it could go well. When we presented the PRR, the PSD soon came to the public—again again, I found this on the PSD website—with one Member saying: « Government has hidden austerity measures » in the PRR. When they were seen, after all, they were not austerity measures, they were reforms. They were all there and they were exactly what the PSD said there was no reform! The gentlemen said there were no reforms in the PRR, but they were there; they said they were hidden, but it was shown that they were not. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On this matter of the PRR and this saga that goes here, I conclude by saying that we realize that today we are in a difficult situation, that things are really difficult, that the war is creating, and can create, problems to the execution, but we anticipated this very: we made a change to the Public Contracts Code, we asked for the help of the PSD, and the PSD contributed, but when the time came to vote, it abstained. This was a first sign that they might seem to be interested in accelerating the PRR, but in practice they were not so interested. But worse: we tried to do something that seems obvious, which was to extend the expropriation regime also to the PRR, to ensure, of course, that we could speed up a process that is difficult, which we know is difficult. What did the PSD do? Members joined in and called for the unconstitutionality of this expropriation regime to be declared. It is true that the Constitutional Court said they were wrong, but your contribution to speed up the PRR was to stop the PRR. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u163	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u164	I conclude by saying the following: it is not worth talking about execution, because we still remember when you did the PT2020, in which, for two years, they distributed 500 000 € and made zero competitions for the authorities. So, we're talking about execution! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u165	In reply, you have the floor of the Minister of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u166	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the truth is this and it is simple: for those who understood that there were only orders from Brussels not to discuss, there would never be anything good, that it was impossible to transform European policy, that there was no alternative not to be met without speaking, it is natural that it seems surprising that the Prime Minister had to launch an idea, to fight for it, to bring all the Prime Ministers, the whole European Council, to agree with it and that it is now on the ground, with a lot of Portuguese work on the subject. For those who have never believed that it was possible for something good to come from Europe and that Portugal had the ability to build it, it is natural that they have looked at the PRR with the same suspicion that they are now actually putting into practice. This morning, it was always repeated that the PRR was not being fulfilled, that there was not a single credible institution to say so. Therefore, I recommend to all Mrs. PSD Members who are reading the European Commission decision today on the second Portuguese payment request, because they will see there written that Portugal has fully met all the milestones and targets it was committed to. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Here are the words of the President of the European Commission and of several European Commissioners, recognizing this, the way we have done, which has obstacles, which have difficulties, but we are here, as always, to overcome them, to speed up, to overcome the problems. The only thing we have for sure, besides our willingness to solve the problems, is that we will never have the PSD next to the government to solve any problem, just to alert to the risks, to talk about failures, until, finally, they give up this argument and find a new problem to repeat exactly the same procedure. That's what happened when they said there was no money for companies. Now, seeing the mobilisation capacity of the entire country around the Mobilizing Agendas programme and the Government's willingness to strengthen significantly with the new PRR funding, what do they say? Change the subject, because of that it's not really worth talking about anymore. What the Commission recognises today is that, between the two requests for payment which Portugal has already approved, we have 17 % of the total RPP targets achieved. This is the sign of the execution of the PRR. They are sorry, then, to say that you have listened carefully to me and that I am very concerned, because it is nothing that I have repeated here. There are pressures, there are access pressures to raw materials, there are price increases pressures, there is today a need to update the values that had been predicted in the RPP due to inflation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u167	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u168	... and we will be here to, in a serious dialogue, as a respected interlocutor, defend those who are the interests of the country also in this matter. The honourable Member gave some examples of PRR reforms. Two of the most relevant will actually be voted on in the next few days here in the Assembly of the Republic. One of them concerns the Dignified Work Agenda, the improvement of working conditions, because it is already the time when we believed that the country's future was a fundamental race in the rights of workers, but this is a Dignified Work Agenda that improves the living conditions of workers, that protects them and that acts decisively on phenomena such as temporary work. The Law of Professional Orders also seeks to respond to a recommendation for decades, which is made to us by the most diverse institutions, and which, now, there are conditions for, in this House, to be able to resolve, guaranteeing access to professions as a fundamental right for the lives of workers. What is most relevant to the execution of the PRR, which are not even the numbers, which we say here, not even the milestones and goals? It is the possibility to make a digital transition in health, which we missed so much during the pandemic, and each of us, with our mobile phone, can switch to new contact platforms with the SNS, improving the quality of response and improving the ability of the services to respond to us. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u169	It is the digital transition in education, with the delivery of computers to students, but, above all, the ability to switch to an evaluation that is done digitally and to school textbooks that can be digital. It is the capacity for social security services to grow on digital platforms to reduce the need to use social security services to solve the problems. It is the ability to expand our network of citizen stores and citizen spaces. These measures, on the part of the quality of life of citizens, as well as measures to decarbonise companies, improve their digital response capacity, also for small trade, improve innovation capacity and transfer of knowledge to our companies, are these the PRR projects. After we respond to the fulfillment of milestones and goals, here we will be to respond to what is most fundamental: the transformation of the country, the economic recovery after the pandemic, the creation of a country where job opportunities are stronger, where wages are better, where the digital and climate transition is done fairly. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u170	I now give the floor to the Member of the PS Parliamentary Group, Pedro Cegonho.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u171	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members: First of all, allow me - allow you to greet the Minister of the Presidency in the manner in which, quickly and in a timely manner, she ran to the territories which were subject to the weather in the last weeks of December, visiting them, and together with the city halls of the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, quickly began the assessment of the damage, or the assessment of the impact of the full on the territory, so that these losses can be minimized and the impact they had on the lives of people. I would like to focus on a historic agreement which, as I said at the time of the discussion of the State budget, would be one of the foundations of the fulfilment of the Government's Programme for the Valuation of Public Administration : the Plurianual Agreement on the Valuation of Public Administration Workers, which was now signed between the Government and the trade unions and which reiterated another historic agreement, which existed only in 1999, in another Government of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This historic agreement brings two new components, which give more security and certainty to employees of the Public Administration: it is a multi-annual agreement and it is an agreement that provides for monitoring, monitoring and permanent negotiation mechanisms, in a working schedule with the unions. This agreement is a good example of how collective bargaining should be used to resolve relations between employers and workers. Therefore, Madam President, taking into account that in 2023 we will have an overall valuation of the salary mass of 5, 1 % — around EUR 1300 million — in view of the fact that the remuneration base of the Public Administration will be € 761, 58, which is equivalent to an increase of a remuneration level or 2 %, I ask the Minister whether or not there are lower income levels that will be updated by about 8 %. I would also like to ask the Minister whether or not there are employees in the civil service whose increase is more than 5 %, corresponding to one third of those employees of the Public Administration. And finally, I wonder whether, as a whole, the proposed average increase is about 20 % or not, thus contributing to the objective of increasing the overall weight of wages in GDP. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u172	In reply, you have the floor of the Minister of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u173	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what we defined in the Government Programme, as a priority of this Government for Public Administration, was precisely based on a path of valuing wages, valuing careers and rejuvenation in the Public Administration. However, in a balance between these three dimensions, this is what we have sought from the beginning of our negotiations with the unions. It is in a collective bargaining space that we must find the answer to the questions we had in open: what is the best way to a rejuvenation capacity of the Public Administration and to improve and accelerate our recruitment capacity? What conditions we have in order to do what we have been doing long ago in all conversations, we all heard, whenever we visited a school, a health centre, a court, any public institution, i.e. the need to recognize the differentiation between careers, to combat the compression that the increase in the minimum wage had brought and also to recognize the longevity of these careers as something to be recognized. This was the way we made, trying to define an annual salary update that would prevent us from continuing to compress the base of the careers of the public service and, on the other hand, defining a path for the revision of these tables, strengthening the general career of superior technician, distancing the career of technical assistants from the career of operational assistants and, in the operational assistants, preventing us from reaching the end of this legislature, having all the operational assistants with the same salary and making a differentiation for those who have been over 15 and for more than 30 years. in this House, we must value when we make multi-year commitments, on the horizon of the legislature, able to make a path that is defined, which is known to all, which is predictable and to which everyone can look as a path that can walk. This path has more value, because besides, we know that there are a set of progressions and promotions to run normally, that there is no interruption of this path, that there is no choice between wage updates and career progression, being for this year that 121 000 public service workers can progress in their careers, knowing in advance that they will not lose points with this progression, according to what we also have in the agreement.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u174	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u175	We are now opening the way for negotiation of the other points that we have defined in our agreement: the revision of SIADAP and the review of careers not reviewed as priorities at this time. It is this work that we will start in January, in a climate of conviction that it is in the centre of collective bargaining that are the best solutions, which creates confidence as to the way we can do and also create the conditions for public administration to look at phenomena such as the reorganization of working time, telework or the week of four days, as a negotiating instrument between the State and the employees of the Public Administration. This is the way of valuing wages, in which we have always believed,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u176	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u177	... we defend it in our Programme and we are here to fulfill it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u178	Thank you very much, Minister. We thus conclude the first round and we will move on to the second round. By the way, let me inform you. Ladies and gentlemen, we will conclude this second round around 1 p.m. and 30 minutes, following the statutory votes, so we will have a very long working day. I therefore immediately call on the PSD Parliamentary Group, in particular Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u179	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, Minister of the Presidency, there is a chorus of criticisms, doubts, reservations about the implementation of the RPP. I repeat : there is a chorus of doubts, reservations and criticisms about the implementation of the PRR, Mrs. Minister. It's not worth denying! It's not worth hiding! [[PSD applause.]] And the origin of these criticisms, of these reservations, of these doubts is the most disparate we know: they come from the President of the Republic, the Council of Public Finance, the Technical Unit for Budgetary Support, the National Committee for the Monitoring of PRR, the European Commission, the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development )...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u180	All credible entities!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u181	...and the Governor of Banco de Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u182	Of whom do you like so much!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u183	And the government says: "No, it's okay, it's all running as planned, it's all running as programmed, we're scrupulously fulfilling what we're committed to." Therefore, the Minister has even announced today that the second instalment has been authorized. But, Mr. Minister, the money from the first instalment didn't even come to the companies, and it's not worth denying it either. The companies reached only EUR 71 million, Mrs Minister, EUR 71 million! This is 1, 9 %, 1, 9 %! [[PSD applause.]] And she says: 'The most important thing is not the numbers we have mentioned here.' Yes, Mrs. Minister! Yes, Mrs. Minister! And you know why? As long as we have implementation rates with payments of 1, 9 %, the transformation of the country, the transformation of the economy, of which the government speaks so much, will never happen. Therefore, Mrs Minister, of both: if the program is well-designed, if the program is well-defined, explain why there are these delays. Or, said otherwise, if there is no delay and the money does not reach the economy, the money does not reach the companies, the money does not reach the institutions, it is because the program is badly designed, it is badly sketched, and it is poorly programmed. Both of them, Mrs. Minister! Both of them, Mrs. Minister! Money doesn't reach the economy, money doesn't reach the companies and it's because it's late, or it's because it's wrong. Tell us where the true possibility is? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u184	Thank you very much, Mr President, the Presidency Minister will already tell you and answer your questions. Please, Minister of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u185	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of almost 2 hours of debate, I will try a two-way answer. First of all, I will quote an old PSD minister who said: « Portugal has never had problems with implementing European funds, it has always executed fully, it has always been from the first countries to exhaust its money. Having this historical pattern and therefore not being the implementation rates a historical problem in Portugal, that is why I am counter-competitive, because if we compare with other countries, this is a common problem, it has a lot to do with changing the context that happened, either with the structure of the European funds itself » — Miguel Poiares Maduro. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But there is more, sir. We can also make use of credible institutions, as your banker recently said. So the European Commission said this morning:'Portugal has fully met the 20 milestones and goals it was committed to. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President of the European Commission — and I apologize for the translation into 'direct' — you are pleased to announce good news to Portugal today. The European Commission believes that Portugal has completed the necessary reforms and investments to receive an important payment by the European Commission. Mr President, a programme is designed and implemented as necessary. I will give you the example of the mobilization agendas: several institutions — companies, universities, public institutions — decide to create a consortium to develop a new product and present a project, which is evaluated by an international jury and chosen among multiple projects, being selected and signed; there is an advance for companies that have already delivered what is necessary to deliver, such as declarations of non-debt to the state, etc. — I suppose you do not intend to exclude such procedures! — and at that time the consortium receives the advance; as it implements the project — let us imagine that it will build the factory that will develop such a product — it will receive, six months after six months, the other money. This is the normal way of any public investment project, not even just the normal way of projects with European funds. Therefore, assuming that the PSD does not want to exclude what is mandatory in the financing of any public or private institutions and does not want to prevent institutions from developing their projects, planning their implementation, building the factories or developing the products that they have to develop, I ask: what is the issue of the PSD? The question is to repeat that this start of funds is delayed — which, as Mr. ex-Minister Miguel Poiares Maduro says, always happens at the beginning of any European fund — and then, when the execution is visible in health centres in the lands of this country, in schools recovered, in computers available to families or in energy efficiency of buildings change to another criticism. The only thing the PSD will not do, and we have seen this over the past few years, is tell what would be its way, what would be the alternative and where Portugal would be if it were the PSD to govern. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u186	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, I have already realized that the government has great satisfaction and joy with this news. The entrepreneurs, these, are still very sad, but, you know, they're ungrateful! Money doesn't get there, but it's just ingratitude. However, the Minister did not answer me. Is the program really late or wrong?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u188	In reply, you have the floor of the Minister of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u189	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the programme had a timetable, with a second payment request to be delivered by September—and it was; it would have to be evaluated by the end of the year, and it was.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u190	I get it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u191	It has been approved, and that is the best indicator of the implementation of the funds. That is what the European Commission has said. In the PRR, money only reaches the country as we meet the goals we set. Portugal has fulfilled and will receive the source of funding; the next phase is followed. What you are asking is that I tell you that we should have transferred money from equipment that is not yet built - is the only thing I can conclude from your question! It is the only thing that can be concluded: that money should arrive before projects are developed.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u192	The words are yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u193	That is the agreement, that is the methodology and there were open competitions. I am going to give you an example: there have been open competitions for social equipment and there are some that are already in the early stages of construction—I believe there is already a close to being inaugurated—but there are others that are still in the project phase. It is the norm of any public investment, any European fund. Therefore, if I wonder if I feel we should be committed to the implementation of the RPP, I will say yes. If I wonder if I know that in 2023 it is necessary to speed up the implementation of public investment, my answer is « yes ». If I wonder if we are late, i.e. if we do not comply with what we were committed to, I reply: we are not, Mr. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u194	Even for the PSD Parliamentary Group, you now have the floor to ask questions, Mr Luís Gomes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u195	Mr President, Madam Minister, I am sorry to wake you up from this socialist utopia, because the worst possible thing is that there may be a government speaking without the clear notion of what is happening in the country. We are going to talk about the Public Administration: how is it possible for the Minister to say that she has recovered the functioning of the Public Administration when her services continue to be a barrier in access to citizens, requiring prior marking? [[PSD applause.]] How does the Minister understand that the Public Administration is working in an exemplary way when there are mafias — mafias! — who sell access passwords to the services of the shops of the citizen? [[PSD applause.]] Madam Minister, how can you say that the Public Administration is working in an exemplary manner when you say that you will now guarantee 50 % of the services without prior marking? With what indicators? In what way? These are the issues I am putting for now. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u196	In reply, you have the floor of the Minister of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u197	Mr President, Mr President, I no longer know what I will do to the adjectives the PSD has invented that I have used in my speeches.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u198	Oh, didn't I say anything like that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u199	None of these adjectives were used by me. None! What I have said — and I will show you — is that during the years of the PSD government the number of public administration workers has fallen brutally. It's a fact, it's unforgettable. [[PSD protests.]] And that is why when we look at the number of central government workers, we see that today there is an increase of almost 10% compared to what was in 2015, after a brutal decrease in the number of public servants during your government.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u200	And worse public services!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u201	That is why we have more than 24 % doctors in health services than in PSD time.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u202	And more queues!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u203	That is why we have more than 188% of scientific research personnel than we had when the PSD left the government. That is why we have 18% more workers in schools than we had in your time. [[PSD protests.]] That's what I said, that's what I'm saying. [[PSD protests.]] I don't know if you guys are. Members are interested in hearing the answer or just asking the question for a video on Youtube. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u204	I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who listen to Mrs Minister, since the Minister has also listened carefully to them. You would like to continue, Minister. [[CH Member Protests Bruno Nunes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u205	What I said was that the Portuguese Public Administration today has more than 80 000 workers than in December 2015. That's what I meant. [[PSD Member Protest Sofia Matos.]] Therefore, Mr. Luís Gomes, of the two, either: or the PSD entered a denial period in view of everything he had said for years—that there were more public officials,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u206	Teachers!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u207	...that the main priority was to eliminate state fats, workers, of course! — or have at least to explain whether this would have been your priority or not. [[PSD protests.]] The honourable Member asked me a question relating to an area which is not of my competence, but I will answer because it is obviously related. As I have already had the opportunity to clarify, Mr. Secretary of State for Digitization and Administrative Modernization — who has within his competence the monitoring of public service — gave guidance that all the services received, in order to resume 50 % of the services in presence format, because I believe that we all agree that the scheduling of the services is an instrument that improves the quality of the Public Administration. This guidance has been given and is currently being corrected by the, I must say, very few examples that existed of non-compliance with these guidelines. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u208	Mr. Joaquim Miranda Sarmento asked for the word I intend to speak with?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u209	Mr President, it is to request the distribution, to the Minister, of the Memorandum of Understanding...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u210	But you have to invoke the regimental figure, which I believe to be an appeal to the Bureau, but I don't know.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u211	Yes, Mr President, to make an appeal to the Bureau, you are absolutely right. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u212	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u213	Mr President, I would like to request the distribution of the Memorandum of Understanding of the Troika signed by the Government of José Socrates, which, page 15, point 3.48, provided for a reduction of public officials in central and local administration. [[PSD applause.]] ...and still, in 2015, public services worked much better. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u214	We will thus make the distribution requested by Mr Joaquim Miranda Sarmento. [[PS protests and PSD and CH Member Pedro Pinto counterprotests.]] I remember the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, today's parliamentary work will be long. [[Pause.]] I think the conditions for continuing... [[PS Protests and PSD counter-protests.]] They're not. [[Pause.]] Now, yes. The PSD Parliamentary Group is still speaking and Mr Luís Gomes has the floor to ask a question to the Minister of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u215	Mr President, Madam Minister, yesterday once again the Parliamentary Group that supported it used the compressor roll to prevent the Minister for Territorial Cohesion from coming to Parliament giving a word to the country so that the people who were struck by the storms could see what the government's strategy was to eliminate the damage and damage they suffered over these weeks. The fact is that in these weeks we have found that you have emptied the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion, having passed over the Minister of Territorial Cohesion in contact with, on the ground, the autarchs and the populations on this issue. I therefore take this opportunity — since the Socialist Party has prevented us from doing so as a matter of urgency, in the Commission — to ask: Mrs Minister, what will you do differently to meet those who are actually going to be the government's commitments to the people? Is it the same as they did with regard to covid, where they promised municipalities in debt situations the financing of EUR 150 million for the expenditure on covid? [[PSD applause.]] [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] Will it be the same in the municipalities of Caramulo, which you have signed the agreements to pay the damages two years after the weather? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u216	Will it be the same, Mrs. Minister, to the announcement that you were making, with pump and circumstance, to the Serra da Estrela? It is that, so far, the municipalities and populations are looking at the stars and are not seeing the government's money to pay their losses. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u217	In reply, you have the floor of the Minister of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u218	Mr. President, I will try to manage my time. Mr President, I have already said that my presence on the ground corresponds to the presence of the entire Government on the ground, with the various public bodies that have been there — the Minister of Territorial Cohesion to social security, from national defence to the environment, from the infrastructures of Portugal to all the services that have been on the ground — and the commitments we have made here to seek a quick and speedy response, which supports the municipalities in this recovery, are assumed and we will be here to carry them out. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u219	Mr Luís Gomes asked for the floor for what effect? To ask more questions to Mrs. Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u220	Exactly, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u221	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u222	I just wanted to remind this House and the Minister, in particular, that she did not answer me regarding the mafia system that sell passwords for the service in the shops of the citizen. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u223	In reply, I now give the floor to the Minister of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u224	Mr President, Mr Member, as I said, this subject of monitoring the operation and coordination of the Citizens' stores is my colleague, the Secretary of State for Digitization and Administrative Modernization,... [[It's from the government!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u225	... so it is with him that questions with this level of specificity must be asked. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u226	Mr. Eurico Brilliant Dias asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u227	Mr President, to make an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u228	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u229	Mr President, the opposition parties sometimes stumble upon their own desire to create political facts. Mr Luís Gomes said that the compressor roll had not allowed Mr. Minister of Territorial Cohesion to come to Parliament, but the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group had submitted a request not only for Mr. Minister to come here but also for the presidents of the regional coordination and development committees, after the clarification that each municipality will make its own needs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u230	That matter has not been discussed!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u231	The PPD/PSD Parliamentary Group insists that it wishes to submit requests which it knows do not have the slightest good political sense, in order to ensure that its compressor roll argumentary may have some basis. My gentlemen, you could have used your right to have the Minister come and not used it. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group must not agree with all the opposition proposals,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u232	What opposition? The opposition is enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u233	... much less when they are not even politically reasonable. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u234	Present the request a month later!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u235	Mr President, I would like to ask you next time to request an inquiry to the Bureau on the conduct of the work to be addressed to the Bureau, because in this way we enter into a dialogue between parliamentary groups which is obviously not beneficial and, above all, destabilizing the normal functioning of our work. Until now, the PSD Parliamentary Group is also calling for the floor. Mr Luís Gomes, what is the regimental figure in which your request for a word applies?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u236	Mr President, it is to make an inquiry to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u237	So let it be a question to the Bureau about the conduct of the work, because otherwise, Mr President, I will have to ask you to cut the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u238	It is really to clarify this House, Mr President. Mr Eurico Brillante Dias spoke of a proposal which was not even discussed yesterday at the Commission's office.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u239	That's the one! That was not discussed or voted on!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u240	Therefore, this proposal did not exist; it was not discussed or voted yesterday at the Commission's office. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u241	I cannot now deny the floor to Mr Eurico Brillante Dias, of course. Have you asked for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u242	Mr President, to make an inquiry on the conduct of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u243	So let it be a rigorous and correct interpellation. And address the Bureau, please, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u244	It will be a pleasure to address you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u245	You too, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u246	I must say, Mr President, that we cannot remain in this situation of 'truly misleading me'. The request was distributed yesterday. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u247	I think this matter is healed!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u248	It has been distributed, it has not been discussed or voted on! Be serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u249	Let's move on. The PSD still has time, it has 2 minutes and 57 seconds, and the Minister also has 37 seconds. Therefore, by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulo Rios will speak to the Minister. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u250	Mr President, this should probably be the last speech of the PSD in this debate, so I am now and for this reason making a reflection and an appeal. First, a reflection on something that is happening throughout the government, part of the Prime Minister and across all sectors, which is this ability to completely deny reality, evidence. Anyone at home listening to this debate will ask a simple question:...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u251	You're going to ask what the PSD is for!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u252	... after all, is there a problem, or isn't there, with the PRR? « There is, there is,» they say. Entrepreneurs say that «there is no, and we do not receive», but entities say that there is a problem here. Who's at home doesn't understand! This ability to deny reality is not only Mr. Prime Minister, it is not only Mr. Minister, but it is difficult to fight because it is reality. Then I wanted to appeal to Mr.Minister, the Socialist Party and the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group. It is completely visible, factual, reiterated that the PS constantly hinders the exercise of the right of opposition. [[PSD applause.]] The Socialist Government, instead of using the majority to govern, uses the majority to prevent the exercise of this supervisory body and has repeatedly prevented the coming, in particular, of ministers to this House from providing clarification. The PSD just asked for this week...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u253	The request had been submitted.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u254	You did not, Mr... let's go to the truth, that the truth is always better. The PSD has been prevented from requiring the Minister to come to Parliament to explain how most of the measures covered by the Ministry of Economic Affairs were possible and did not reach the companies. [[Protests from PS Hugo Costa.]] Another request that has been refused! Therefore, our appeal is this and it is simple: Mrs. Minister, speak to them, speak with Mr. Prime Minister and arrange there, as they do not do your work, to allow us to do our own. We want to hear you, we want to hear the explanations, and I say more to you, since the report of the Court of Auditors which is expected will contain content which, because of its relevance, will deserve our attention—attenance as always—the PSD will certainly ask the Minister to come to Parliament for clarification. Please, Socialist Party, don't hide the Minister behind the curtain, let her come because we want to hear her. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u255	I was going to give the floor to Mr. Minister of the Presidency to answer, but Mr. Hugo Costa asked for the floor. Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u256	Mr President, it is to make an inquiry to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u257	This is too much!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u258	I have to give you the floor, for sure.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u259	Mr President, again, just to restore the truth: firstly, a request was approved in the Committee on Economic Affairs to hear the Minister for the Economy and the Sea on this matter, which is his competence, being rejected the request concerning the Minister of the Presidency, for not having jurisdiction over the matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u260	Was this an appeal to the Bureau? For God's sake!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u261	Thank you very much, especially for your briefness, Mr. I think we are in a position to give the floor to the Minister of the Presidency, who has 37 seconds. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u262	Mr President, I shall be very brief. The PSD is swinging: now it says that Mr. Prime Minister writes to the President of the European Commission, recognizing all the pressure this situation creates on the PRR, is the recognition of a problem; now he says that the Government and the Socialist Party do not recognize the problem. We recognize the problem and are working to implement the PRR. So far, there is no delay and we are working with the European Union to meet the challenges that this environment, in particular, poses to the implementation of the RPP. It's pretty simple, it's pretty clear, if we want to see it. As for the comings to the Assembly of the Republic, I am always available to come here.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u263	And next week he'll be here again.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u264	What I recommend to you, Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira, is that you visit the decree-law approving the Organization and Operation Regime of the XXIII Constitutional Government and seek to suit the requests to the powers of the ministers. Within my competences—which are not few, as the honourable Members say. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be here. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u265	That's not true, you know it's not! You have interministerial coordination!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u266	The PSD still has 31 seconds, the Minister is that she no longer has time to answer. Anyway, my question is...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u267	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u268	Mr Paulo Rios has the floor to speak to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u269	Mr Minister, this suddenly seems to have slipped into an alternative reality. The Minister had the inter-ministerial responsibility for coordination.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u270	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u271	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u272	It's in organic law, it's a matter of reading the law! He had responsibility and, in fact, spoke many times about measures to combat cowardice as a minister... [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] Mrs. Minister, look, we are each left with your truth and the law says what it says. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u273	With this last speech by Mr Paulo Rios, we give the floor to the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. To speak to the Minister of the Presidency, I give the floor to Mr Ricardo Lima.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u274	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs Minister, we have been able to hear here many of the storms and opinions of the opposition parties. The subject is too serious for so much demagogy. And it is too serious for so much demagogy, even more so, by many of those who intervened completely unaware of reality on the ground. Many of the Members who spoke today did not leave the comfort of their homes, or here from the Assembly of the Republic, to get to the ground to know the reality. Mr President, allow me, therefore, as someone who has been on the ground during those three nights, as author in Loures County, someone who knows the reality and what happened in one of the most affected councils, to thank you and congratulate you for the institutional solidarity and speed with which the Government has responded to this question. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And the government was quick, yes! It was fast because, on Thursday night, a few hours ago — less than 24 hours! — of the weather scheduled a meeting for Friday, 9th, which took place less than 48 hours after the events.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u275	Go to Monforte and see what happened!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u276	This is a reality, but it is also a reality that it is necessary to quantify, as municipalities recognize. contrary to what has been said, there is a need to quantify to ensure that there is transparency and rigour in the allocation of support that has to happen — with the necessary speed, yes, but with transparency and rigour.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u277	Transparency? in that bench?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u278	And this has never been opposed, in any way, by the municipalities, as recently heard. In fact, on Wednesday night to Thursday, some of the municipalities that we heard today and were given as an example said that they did not want support. I repeat : they said they didn't want support! Many of them were the tow of the intervention from Thursday night to the President of the City Hall of Loures in the Night's Journal, because later they came to say: "Yes, we also want support. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u279	Before they did not want some support and now they claim and demand speed in the process and in the allocation of subsidies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Grant allocation, yes, but with speed and transparency. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u280	In reply, you have the floor of the Minister of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u281	I don't even know how you're gonna answer this! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u282	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what we have been looking for, in the two meteorological events we have seen in recent days, was to ensure that that the first time—that is the time of Civil Protection, the emergency response, the destruction of roads, the cleaning, the monitoring of water and the entire process—was to take place following the competencies that camera presidents have as municipal civil protection commanders; and, from the first hour, we will be available for dialogue in terms of agreements. It has been recognized by all of you. and the Presidents of the Chamber at that meeting, which was always a shared effort between the responsibilities of the municipalities and the support that the Government was providing. As I had the opportunity to reaffirm yesterday in Loures, and yesterday in Oeiras, the Government is available to act on all mechanisms, at European or national level, to contribute, at the level of municipal infrastructure and equipment, in terms of trade support, in terms of what has been identified by municipalities as the main damage, to contribute to a quick solution. We all know—and that is why we are so committed to the process of decentralization—that there is an answer that is best given in the context of proximity. This is what the parish boards and municipal chambers have done since that first night of temporary: to ensure housing solutions, emergency, to people; to see if there are conditions for people to return to their homes the next day or if they need additional support; to get in touch with social security; to go solving all emergency problems. The Government will be here to contribute to its support, to make use of all funds and to build legal forms of support for what has not yet been necessary. This has been the case in other crises, in other times, and it will be the same now. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u283	Mr Hugo Costa, from the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, spoke to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u284	Mr President, Mr Ministers, Mrs and Mrs. State Secretarys, first of all, for the truth, since the Democratic Social Party has spoken about the absence and rejection of demands, in addition to, on the subject in particular, the Socialist Party has submitted a request to the Minister of the Economy and the Sea, on Wednesday, the Minister of the Presidency will be in the Economic Commission to discuss matters which fall within the competence of the Committee on Economic Affairs. Next, as regards Community funds, they should be looked at by three instruments at the same time : the remainder of Portugal 2020, PRR and Portugal 2030. On Portugal 2020, the first question I ask the Minister is whether or not Portugal compares very well with all similar countries at the level of implementation of Portugal 2020, and whether it is also possible to complete its implementation in 2023, as the Government aims. Also on the Recovery and Resilience Plan, I would like to ask the Minister whether or not it is normal in a Community fund process to have implementation procedures which previously have applications and a set of legal procedures which are mandatory. This is because it is not surprising that anyone who, on Monday, Wednesday and Friday, calls for more implementation in the Community funds on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday is against all procedures for the Community funds to be implemented more quickly. This is the truth. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Then, as regards some institutions that were mentioned here, it is strange that the day the Banco de Portugal came up with the growth forecasts for 2022 - 2023, which instead of talking about this, came to speak of a statement by the Governor of the Banco de Portugal. Yes, the Banco de Portugal institution today has seen the growth of our country rising to 2022 and 2023, which is also due to the multiplier effects of PRR and Portugal 2020. On Portugal 2030, I leave one last question: how is the transition between Portugal 2020 and Portugal 2030 being worked out and how is Portugal 2030 funding already on the ground, even before it is approved? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u285	In reply, you have the floor of the Minister of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u286	Mr President, Mr Deputy, Portugal has, as I have already mentioned, a tradition of good implementation of the Community funds. This is the case right now, Portugal is one of the countries closest to total use, with an implementation of Portugal 2020 which is six points above the European average, and the overall programme has already reached very close values to the target. What we are planning for 2023, the last year of implementation of the funds, is to be able to use all the instruments at our disposal from the recovery stock exchange to a final reprogramming of the framework in order to ensure our commitment to fully implement Portugal 2020. With regard to Portugal 2030 — today is one of those days when we are only talking about PRR, but there we will come to the moment when, long after we are working on it, the questions will be dedicated to Portugal 2030,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, that all the programmes were approved yesterday by the European Commission ;,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, Therefore, Portugal 2030 is on the ground today through an extraordinary mechanism of anticipation which has already made it possible to launch EUR 892 million in competitions, approve EUR 626 million and have EUR 247 million implemented. With these instruments and their full use, with very close work with the authorities, the CCDRs and all the institutions, we are able to seek to do what is expected of us, which next year we will close Portugal 2020 with full use and launch Portugal 2030 successfully. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u287	To ask questions at the Socialist Party's bench, Mr. Jorge Botelho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u288	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, in fact, what was most spoken here today was in the execution of the PRR, but, as Mr Hugo Costa said, we are working at a single moment. The PRR emerged after the covid and the Minister had already been concerned to remember the role of Prime Minister Antonio Costa in shaping this measure by the European side, when many disagreed — and it is a substantial value, of more than EUR 16 billion by the PRR — but, as the honourable Member said, we are working on three models and three programmes: in the closure of the PT 2020, in the implementation of the PRR and in the launch of the PT 2030. It is important to say, to exhaustion, this matter: implementation! The Government has the capacity to implement. The PT 2020 is currently paid by more than 80 %. This is important to say, when we still have more than EUR 1 million... it is EUR 5 billion that are all contracted and require execution, because we know that works are not done in one day, especially when many authorities and many entities are involved. Yesterday the Council of Ministers approved the governance model of the PT 2030, in which there are already expectations. It is important that this should be done, that the agents, municipalities and the CCDRs should be involved, with strengthened competences — in which they are also working — for the POs (operational programmes) to be able to manage quickly. At the PRR, things are happening. What you can't want is that in the second year of executing the PRR, the rates are as if we were in the last because that doesn't happen anywhere. The government has worked hard, has worked well, has involved entities, has taken action. The Minister of Economy, who works with the mobilising agendas, the Minister in the area of planning, the Minister of Territorial Cohesion, has all worked very hard. For what? To praise, so that a set of entities implementing the funds will do so with confidence, because the government is working to meet its responsibilities. At present, the contract with the RRP is 100 %; the value contracted and approved is more than 60 %; the amount paid today is 7 % and the EUR 1, 8 billion that have been approved by the European Union this morning by the Commission — as the Minister has given us — the payment rate will reach 17 %. On the other hand, in companies alone, the value contracted and approved is EUR 2615 million,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u289	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u290	...which, obviously, will take your time. It's not 71 million, they're already paid. These 1, 8 billion, surely, will exponentially raise this value which has been stressed here with so much problem. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u291	In reply, you have the floor of the Minister of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u292	Mr President, honourable Member, a Government is committed to fulfilling its programme, to meeting the challenges facing it and to overcoming the difficulties. That is what we have done and that is what I sought to highlight in my initial intervention. in these eight and a half months, since this government has taken over, all the objectives that we have had before us in this matter of planning have been met. It was necessary to sign a partnership agreement with the European Commission on Portugal 2030, and it was signed on 14 July ; then it was necessary to approve the programmes which will operationalize the next Community framework, and they were all approved yesterday — on 30 November, only seven Member States had their programmes all approved ; it was necessary to have a governance model and start for the final regulatory phase of the programme, and here we will be to comply with what I believe, in my first coming to Parliament, still in the debate of the Budget for 2022, and that was the following: during the first quarter of 2013, we will have the first warnings of Portugal 2030 launched. We tried to ensure that we would arrive there with an implementation capacity in Portugal 2030, through the anticipation mechanism, at the same time. I do not hide that the pressure is great because often the institutions that have to run the PRR are the same ones that have to run the end of Portugal 2020 and the beginning of Portugal 2030. Therefore, it is very intense work that we are trying to develop and 84 % of Portugal 2020 is already running today. Of course, we must always continue to respond to those who said it was impossible to reduce the deficit and increase wages and social support, which the European Union would never create an instrument based on reforms and investments and on their implementation, which always fails. Here we will be able to make the effective evaluation of more overrun obstacles, more reforms implemented, more already realized investments that transform the lives of Portuguese. Those who say that it is never possible, continue as they are, always limited to this speech. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u293	You now have the floor to ask questions, Mrs Irene Costa, from the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u294	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, whom I welcome, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, wanted to address the issue of Census 2021, the results of which were disclosed last November. I would like to stress that the Government has made a clear commitment to economic and social recovery, highlighting a structural concern about demographic challenges. In fact, the response to these challenges constitutes a strategic axis of medium- and long-term intervention for the Government. And if the Stability Programme, submitted by the Government, reported that population projections point to a decrease in the population living in Portugal, the fact is that the results of the 2021 Census were in fact confirmed this projection, revealing that Portugal lost about 2, 1 % of its resident population. The same census centres have also shown that, within the context of migration, it was not enough to compensate for the reduction of the Portuguese population, that we have an aged country and that we continue to have territorial asymmetries. As the Government has seen, the demographic transition is actually underway, but we know — and the Portuguese know — that the concern of the governments of the Socialist Party is the people,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u295	Again? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u296	... that people are always at the heart of their political decisions. in this sense, we have already presented a package of measures and responses to these challenges, such as the Agenda for Deserving Work, the conciliation agenda, the commitment of free day care for all or accessible housing. We also know that CCDR reform will be a path to more sustainable development...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u297	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u298	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, because the ability to act on the different fronts of the demographic equation will be decisive in minimizing the consequences of current trends, she asked that, in this context, she could address what has been done and what can still be done to respond to these demographic challenges. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u299	In reply, you have the floor of the Minister of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u300	Mr President, Mrs Deputies, the census data actually reveal what everyone has seen for many years, and that needs concerted action by all public policies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u301	Now it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u302	The idea that there is only one political measure that promotes birth is a childish idea, which has no correspondence to what it really needs to do. A short time ago, we discussed the importance of information and knowledge in the definition of public policies, and it is worth visiting how much has been written on this subject. The Government has defined, from the outset — particularly from 2019 onwards — the priority to respond to the demographic challenge and the reduction of inequalities with a set of policies that are currently on the ground and which are also part of the RPP's priorities, particularly in employment. The existence of more employment, less precarious and with better wages is one of the elements that appears, systematically, to achieve that goal of families may have the children they want to have. So everything that has happened on the labour market in Portugal, both with regard to increasing employment and increasing wages and reducing precariousness, is a contribution we also make to this. In the housing, he defined the new generation of housing policies and a new bet, because having a family home and not delaying home exit is a priority. It is one of the fundamental instruments of the PRR, which requires a commitment from all, and also from the municipal chambers, for its implementation, being a fundamental element. But also in social policies: strengthening family allowance; ensuring free school textbooks; seeking to improve conditions in schools; lowering tips; increasing social benefits, both those relating to family allowance and those relating to the role of IRS (tax on income of natural persons) in creating better conditions, so families can have their children they want to have.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u303	Not all of them can have!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u304	The answer to the demographic challenge is always slower than we would like to... I apologize for skipping a fundamental part, the theme of free daycare and the increase of the daycare network and preschool.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u305	That's the proposal for it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u306	It is an ever more time-consuming work than we would like, because that is what is called a'structural reform package', to give families better living conditions, because without it we will not face the demographic challenge. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u307	We now turn to the questions of the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party. Mr Rui Paulo Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u308	Mr President, Mr Ministers and other members of the Government, Mrs and Mrs. Members of the European Parliament Eva Kaili was arrested last Friday last week by the Socialist Euro MP and Vice-President of the European Parliament. After his arrest he was immediately suspended from all his duties in both Greece and the European Parliament, and this week he officially lost the position of Vice-President of the European Parliament. In Portugal, this sad case was strongly condemned by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, João Gomes Cravinho, who even expressed great concern about the allegations of corruption, which call into question the European institutions. But about the cases of corruption involving high leaders of the Defense, when the minister himself was the pastor of the folder, nothing has to say. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u309	Moreover, it was Minister Cravinho himself who, as Minister of Defense, tried to conceal an audit that reported irregularities and promoted a leader, even knowing that he was already under suspicion of corruption.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u310	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u311	In other words, in a similar case, the duality of criteria is too obvious. The government is condescending with its and demanding with those from outside,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u312	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u313	...and the defamation with which it does it becomes insulting to the Portuguese. That is what keeps the Portuguese from politics and degrades democratic institutions. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. President, Mr. Ministers, Mr. Members, the state of institutional and political degradation in which this government is found is remarkable. Considering that only nine months have passed since its takeover, the number of cases and homes—as the Prime Minister so likes to call them to devalue them—it is in such order that every week a new scandal seems to arise to strike the government. The recent resignation of Secretary of State Miguel Alves is paradigmatic in how the Government, in particular the Prime Minister, has dealt with these cases. Miguel Alves, who was a faithful colleague of the Prime Minister, Antonio Costa, along his political journey, was kept until the last hour in his portfolio, until it was absolutely unsustainable to keep him in government. When all the opposition demanded his resignation, when so much was known about the cases in which he was involved and when the most elementary good sense indicated the door of the street to the Secretary of State, Costa maintained confidence in his man, in a clear attitude of « I want, I can and I command».
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u314	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u315	Finally, the Secretary of State resigned only because he was accused by the Public Prosecutor's Office, and the Portuguese asked: were the facts not too serious? And was the status of the defendant no reason more than enough to be dismissed? The PS repeats that "to politics what is politics and justice what is justice", but what this case shows is that if justice does not pronounce itself, politics does not withdraw illusions and ethics, in the middle of it all, goes to the trash can.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u316	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u317	Mrs Mariana Vieira da Silva, as Minister of the Presidency and number two of the Government, I ask you: how can the Government maintain political confidence in a minister who tried to hide an audit that reported irregularities and promoted a leader, even knowing that he was already under suspicion of corruption? Finally, Minister, can you elucidate us on the ethical standards to which the government is subject to its rulers? Do they really exist? If so, what exactly are they? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u318	In reply, you have the floor of the Minister of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u319	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the issues which, at the time of your intervention, you put in relation to an ongoing investigation into people's defence sector, I believe, quite well-identified, I believe that the Arrival has called for the coming of Mr Foreign Affairs to Parliament and that he will come here next Tuesday. I therefore believe that the questions you have asked me will be addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who immediately volunteered to come to the Assembly of the Republic. As for the more transversal questions that I am asking, I would like to say the following: to live in a rule of law and democracy means that the institutions with competence for research have complete independence for this research and that we should expect these investigations to be conducted and to have conclusions. Here, in this House, political evaluation is made. This is the House itself to make this political assessment, which must be done. As regards ethics, it is something that this government sees as being of the greatest importance, which it practices every day, which it defends in all conditions. I don't think this constant confusion between news, ongoing investigations and cases...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u320	They're real!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u321	... contributes to a democracy in which the Portuguese believe. Research, the independence of research, the conclusions and the right each one has to presume his innocence, that is, they are fundamental to our democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u322	And the 300 000 € of the Camara de Caminha, where are they? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u323	Mr Bruno Nunes will now use the floor to ask questions on behalf of the incoming Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u324	Mr. President, Mr. Ministers, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, when, as in the last speech, Mrs Mariana Vieira da Silva spoke on the issue of transparency which this Government so praises, and after hearing, also during today, the Socialist Party says that I came to ask directly who has the hand in the mass, until I was confused about the cases that have happened in recent times. Mrs. Minister, very directly on the issue of SIADAP, you say they will resolve from January, but do not explain exactly how. In addition, the question of PREVPAP remains open and, in relation to the deficiencies within the State organization, we now also have an increase of weaknesses in local administration, with the need of municipal chambers to hire workers at precarious level to fulfill and complete the tasks that VV. They were assigned to them through decentralization. We have also heard that—now, with digitisation, it will be! — the older will have the opportunity to schedule consultations and access the SNS. Mr.Minister, we are still talking about the visit to Tres-os-Montes and in Tres-os-Montes there is no mobile network, most municipalities do not have a mobile phone. But what internet access, what? In the meantime, you replaced the Minister of Territorial Cohesion and went to Loures — and very well! —, council and land where the Arrival, Town Hall and Land where André Ventura was a councilman and where I am a councilman as well. In addition, it is the same municipality that has four operating cars for the PSP, in 11 teams. On full days, PSPs were required to be transported by volunteer firefighters, because they do not have operational cars. We are here, next to Lisbon, and you know exactly what is going on. Loures is also the council for which the Communist Party, in recent days, has said: "We have done work, we have work in the field and we demonstrate, because we have done the work of the dog. Do not keep on seeking. ” The « controller », who is a figure that still exists in the Communist Party, who goes to the chamber and municipal assembly meetings to take notes and assure the Central Committee that they comply with the orders, has forgotten to inform that in the area of Sacavem the fillings continue. I do not know if they are waiting for the World Youth Day and that His Holiness the Pope transforms water into wine to try to make it profitable, because it was a shame the deviation that existed in the work of the dog.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u325	You want to compare to what it was? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u326	Speak now, Mr President, about what you talked about yesterday, about what you were talking about, about the years in which the Communist Party allowed constructions in full beds or swamp areas, as happens, for example, in the area of the Child, which was completely flooded. The responsibility also has the name of Bernardino Soares and eight years of communist management in Loures, you understand? So coming here with this conversation has a lot to tell you. But, Mrs. Minister, very specifically, you went to Loures and said you were going to help; today you said it would be from day 15. Mr. Minister, I just need you to say whether it is true, or whether the arrival is lying, that what was agreed was that, in relation to personal goods, the government will give zero; in relation to private houses, the government will give zero; in relation to companies, the government has agreed, and the Minister, with the chamber presidents who will calculate the invoice on the basis of the same period. Given that last year, by this time, restoration and many companies were still closed due to the covid, I ask: what period is homologous? It is true or it is a lie that you have told the mayors of the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon that subsidies and government investment can go up to — even! — 60 % of the value required for investment? Given that there are municipalities, as is the case with the municipality of Loures, which already have EUR 20 million calculated—and will increase, and much! — Where is there money to pay for all this? And the "up" is how? Are 5 %, 10 %, 50 %, 60 %?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u327	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u328	I will finish by saying that what you have done, managing for the telejournals, is completely shameful. It is not worth going to Loures de galochas and making statements to the press when, in fact, to the closed door, the promises are « ball ». [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u329	In reply, you have the floor of the Minister of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u330	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, one thing we should try to do is not make sure that things were said at meetings where we were not, because normally it is not right.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u331	But look what's true! You know it's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u332	What did you get up to? It was agreed that the municipalities would remove the damage. Without this it is impossible to define the set of things that you said were already defined.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u333	Up to 60 %, your information!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u334	It must be borne in mind that there are already instruments, such as the Municipal Emergency Fund, and that have rules. In addition to the existing instruments, the government has been able to define new instruments on the basis of the damage.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u335	Is it a lie what I said? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u336	Therefore, it is not possible to state that commitments were made when what was taken was a working methodology for now defining support. That's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u337	All I said is true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u338	What did we identify at the meeting? We have identified areas where there are already legal instruments defined for support, such as the Municipal Emergency Fund and others, and these already have rules. We are available to increase support and change these rules if necessary and therefore the very concrete answer to the questions you have asked us.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u339	I asked concrete questions, unlike others!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u340	... is that the money is not yet defined by the government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u341	You know they are! You know it's been woken up!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u342	We now turn to the questions of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group. First of all, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u343	Mr President, Madam Minister, I can conclude with the answer you gave me in the previous round—and confirm whether my understanding is correct—that at the end of 2023 we will have a microdata base similar to that of the staff but for the public service, with the same information and with the same availability for academics and researchers to be able to analyze the public service.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u344	In reply, you have the floor of the Minister of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u345	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know, but I think that is now the fifth time the Liberal Initiative asks me a question about this system, and I will answer. What is expected is that there is a database, called SIOE + ( Information System of the State Organization ), which has this information, has the microdata and, like what happens at this time with many of the administrative data of the Public Administration, allows that, through a platform that the National Institute of Statistics develops, called « National Data Infrastructure », these data can be worked out by the INE and, following the rules that exist in general statistics, used by researchers. By complying with these rules, exactly in the same terms as the information that comes from the Simplified Business Information and the report and data from the staff tables, these data will, of course, first be at the service of the National Institute of Statistics and then, in the same terms as it is at present, of the other researchers.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u346	Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u347	Mr President, Minister, can you also confirm to me that in this database we will have a granularity of the type of expenditure of public organisations and the level of granularity for public organisations? What do I mean by this? I wonder if we will have the structure of expenditure and revenue from each direction, from each of the observatories receiving public funds.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u348	In reply, you have the floor of the Minister of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u349	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know — because he has asked me for many months now — the system I have just referred to is a public employment area, which is the area that protects it and that is what he is asking me to compare with what exists with the private sector. I am not responding to areas and competences relating to the Directorate-General for Budget, of course. I am replying on the dimension that safeguards it, which is the public employment dimension, and that is what the system allows and compares, as you said, with the information that exists for the private sector in terms of staff frameworks.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u350	Mr Guimarães Pinto continues to use the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u351	Mr President, Madam Minister, in several speeches you have defended the simplification of proceedings, the decomplication—which is a cause I hope we have in common! — However, after so many years in power, we still have a bureaucratic public administration and with many unnecessary processes. I could tell you a number of examples, but the one who might be more shocked by the people who have to relate to state bureaucracy is that even today, we have public bodies that, in order to proceed with any process, ask the citizen for a document that only the State can issue. In other words, we have the State itself asking the citizen to obtain a document that the State itself issues. This goes as ridiculous as the case, which was told to us, to a person who was applying for a job at a university and needed to deliver a certificate of qualifications that had to be issued by the university itself, in fact, in the same office where he would have to deliver that document. So what this person had to do was ask the person he was talking to to to issue him a diploma, a certificate of qualifications, to deliver him — to whom? — the same person to whom I initially asked for it. This is obviously a ridiculous example, but that is what we have in the Public Administration, even today. It would not be very difficult to implement a system in which the various State bodies could, when they need a document from another State body, not ask the citizen not to spend money and time looking for that document, but, on the contrary, to ensure an internal process for this to happen. I think we talked about that in the past. Can you commit to a date when this ceases to happen in our country? In other words, is it committed that a public body does not ask a person to seek out another public body a document that it needs for any process? It is often the case that the deadlines for the delivery of a public body do not meet the delivery requirements that another public body has. This makes life difficult for people, adds bureaucracy—and all this is context costs that do not allow the country to continue to grow—and, above all, it has an excessive weight on people's lives.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u352	In reply, you have the floor of the Minister of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u353	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult for me to do this until I am aware that, having responsibilities for the most transversal coordination of the Government, it is supposed to answer questions from various areas — but, when we come into the level of detail in which you are entering, I must draw attention to the fact that the law on the organization and functioning of the Government says that the protection of the Agency for Administrative Modernization and all competences in the area of administrative modernization is no longer with the Minister who has responsibility for the Public Administration — which I am, as in the previous government — but with the Secretary of State for Digitization and Administrative Modernization. Look, Mr. Member, I can reply to you, politically, with great calm,... [[Protests by the Member of the IL Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]] ... telling him that, in 2015, as we commit ourselves, we resumed the exercise of having, every year, the Simplex and that it is visible in many measures: from IRS automatic to pension at the time, in cases where it is possible, the possibility of automatically renewing the citizenship card, until the licensing process approved by the Council of Ministers 15 days ago. On that, we can discuss. But what I am asking — I am sorry — is simple: this is a sectoral debate and I am prepared to answer on all areas in my custody, but questions about administrative modernization should even be addressed to the Secretary of State accompanying these matters. And it is not, believe it, out of will, because when I have information here, I have always tried to answer, but this is why it is a sectoral debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u354	Mr Guimarães Pinto continued to use the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u355	Mr President, Madam Minister, when I hear you speaking in simplification and understatement I hope that it will not only be to obtain the rewards of this work and also to be responsible for the complication, by the "Complex", which still exists. There is one last question I would like to ask. I know that it is up to you to manage the RPP funds, so you should know this : what will be the effect on GDP growth in 2023 on the implementation of the RRP funds? Do you already have that perspective? What impact does it expect to have on GDP growth, specifically, the application of RPP funds?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u356	In reply, you have the floor of the Minister of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u357	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is indeed an area of my competence. I was here looking for the particular number, which I'm not finding. I'll try to answer the next question, no problem. What we know is that, for example, the implementation of cohesion policy funds during the year 2021 represented 1, 8 % of GDP. It is clear that, in the context of our lives, the importance of public investment and, therefore, of what is being financed by the PRR and the structural funds, is gaining weight. I promise to go back to this number when I find it here.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u358	Then call!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u359	Mr Guimarães Pinto continues to use the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u360	Mr President, I would just suggest that we wait a while until the Minister finds the answer to the question, because it is quite useful. I understand that it takes time.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u361	All right. I would therefore ask the services which defuse the time now spent by Mr Guimarães Pinto, since it was an inquiry to the Bureau on the conduct of the work. And I now give the floor to the Minister of the Presidency, who has just discovered the number.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u362	It's 42!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u363	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the figures I have, and which are part of the information we have made available in the Big Plan Options for this year, indicate that GDP can grow by 2025, 3, 5 % above what would be the case without the existence of the PRR, and that this can also translate into public accounts an improvement of 1, 5 percentage points into the budget balance. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u364	You have the floor now, yes, to ask questions, Mr Guimarães Pinto.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u365	Mr President, Minister, we are talking here about about 1, 2 % additional growth per year by 2025, as a result of the PRR. However, the forecasts of international organisations for GDP growth next year point to something between 0, 5 % and 1 %. In other words, without the PRR, without the European funds that do not depend on the competence of the government in the coming years, or at least in the next year, the economy would not only be growing as it would be declining. This makes me very concerned, because in this House there is much talk about the execution of the PRR, but there is no talk about what will happen in the post-PRR. It is that, at this moment, what we have is an economy addicted to European funds,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u366	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u367	... which only grows because we are receiving European funds, which in 2023 will grow only because of European funds. The Minister admitted here that without European funds in 2023 the country would not grow, on the contrary, we would go into recession, but that should not be a cause for pride to anyone. One day the PRR ends, one day the European funds decline, and what will happen to the Portuguese economy after that? What will remain of these funds, in an economy dependent on European funds? How are we going to grow after 2025? What reforms are being made today with the RPP funds that will allow us to grow after 2025? [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u368	In reply, you have the floor of the Minister of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u369	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me divide my answer into two parts. The first part is to tell you that of the EUR 6 billion planned for public investment and the central government in this State budget for 2023, 34 % will be co-financed by European funds, 18 % by the PRR and 16 % by the other European funds. Therefore, it is not true what is usually said, namely that the only investment that exists is that which comes from Europe. It is very important; in the past, in times of crisis, it has been even more important, but now we have a greater balance between the public investment that is made at national level and the contribution of European funds. But, sir, we have a difference here. He believes that the effect of the PRR on our society is measured only by the direct effect that these investments will have on GDP, but that is not the position of the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u370	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u371	the PRR is part of a set of reforms and investments, because we believe that when, for example, we increase the number of students with higher education, in areas related to science and technology, with information technologies,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u372	Then they emigrate!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u373	...we are contributing to the country having more opportunities. When we create conditions for the country as a whole — companies and public administration, as foreseen in the PRR — to make an investment in digital transition, this means that the country will have new opportunities, more opportunities to make this economic transition that we will live in conditions different from those that happened in the past. I would like to tell you, Mr President, that one of the most revealing examples of this is the Mobilizing Agendas. When we have a set of institutions that are added together to transform, to create new services and new products, what we are building is future — a future in which our companies do more, do better, can sell higher value added products out there. Finally, I point out what is our great divergence and the main component of the PRR: all this only contributes to a better country and can grow more if it is done with social cohesion. Therefore the social dimension and social resilience of our PRR is perhaps the most significant within the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u374	We have moved on to the CFP Parliamentary Group, having the floor to put questions to Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u375	Mr President, Madam Minister, I would like to bring you here another issue, also within the scope of the rights of employees of the Public Administration regarding the problem of precariousness and PREVPAP. This is because we have discussed this matter, we have referred to the need to conclude PREVPAP, to integrate into a career with public ties all workers who perform permanent functions, but the problem is that time is passing and these situations are still not resolved. We know how PREVPAP has been going through, with restrictions, with several delays and we know that it is not completed. The CABs ( Bipartite Evaluation Committees ) are not functioning and the processes have been closed. But the truth is that there are workers who are still waiting for the opening of the competition, there are workers who are still waiting for a decision. We are talking, for example, about the workers of RTP ( Radio and Television of Portugal ), who are waiting for the opening of the competition and there is no prospect; we are talking about a significant number of specialists in schools, who are waiting for the opening of the competitions for entry into the career. But I would like to ask you another question, because we were aware that workers hired under a programme designated as "protected employment" of the IEFP (Instituto do Employo e Formation Professional) were not covered by PREVPAP and that they were not even integrated into the Public Administration, even though they were performing permanent functions. So, Madam Minister, what is the reason for this problem to continue to be systematically postponed, unless completed and for the workers to continue in a situation of instability, uncertainty, not knowing when this process will be completed?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u376	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u377	So the question that I put to you, Minister, is: what is the clear, concrete commitment that the Government assumes for the completion of this process? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u378	To reply, Mr. Secretary of State for Public Administration, Inês Ramires.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u379	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Paula Santos, as soon as this government took office, one of the priorities was to approve the pending proceedings. In other words, in the area of our competence, one of the first things we did was to approve all pending processes. The next stage which the honourable Member brings here, which is the opening of the invitations to tender, is dependent on the employers who now have to open these invitations to tender. We are not aware of this issue of IEFP, but I remember that the delimitation of PREVPAP had a temporal universe defined with requirements also defined there. Combating precariousness remains a priority of the State. It is, in fact, the appreciation agreement we signed with the unions and I remember something I have already said here in this House: there are virtually no governments that can be proud of having carried out so many measures to combat precariousness, such as those of the Socialist Party, alone or with them. Between 2017 and 2020, we created about 35 000 permanent jobs, with a 7% higher increase in the workforce, which reflected their reflection in terms of reducing term contracts. The next moment, we had the covid, which has baffled the accounts a little bit, and this is the moment, following these term contracts that have increased due to the covid, in which we have a new look at the term contract and it is pointed out in several government areas that we will continue this fight. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u380	Continues in the use of the word, Mrs Paula Santos of the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u381	Mr President, I do not know what to say because, in fact, we asked a very specific question, but we did not get an answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u382	It's...! Oh, my
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u383	But I would like to tell you the following, Madam Secretary of State: workers do not need well- meaning words, they need their problems to be solved in practice.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u384	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u385	If the trial has advanced what is missing? I mean, we know what's missing, but what prevents it from being completed? Why are competitions not open if we are talking about public administration structures that are protected by the government? Therefore, there is a need on the part of the Government of course to adopt the measures, the guidelines, what is necessary, for the completion of these processes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u386	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u387	The Secretary of State also made reference to the fact that the fight against precariousness is a priority. I'm sorry to tell you, but you don't notice.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u388	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u389	In the Public Administration, it is estimated that there are about 90 000 workers with precarious links, for example, school technicians are estimated to be around 2000. In other words, it was advanced with PREVPAP, which we considered should have been much more comprehensive than what it was, a group of workers was integrated, but all the problems of workers with precarious links had to be solved.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u390	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u391	However, the fact is that, in parallel, the government has always continued to hire workers with precarious links — that is the reality! — which are fundamental to ensuring public services and their operation every day. I say more: more workers are needed to ensure that public administration and public services are closer to citizens and that delays, waiting lists and all the constraints that exist today in the various public services where a citizen goes to deal with their problems. Now, that is the answer that is necessary. I would therefore ask the Government, in fact, to be concrete in those who are its options, because we do not need rhetoric, we need options, concrete measures, solutions to solve these problems. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u392	To reply, you have the floor of the Secretary of State for Public Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u393	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I begin by answering the question of specialist technicians. This is one of the subjects that we are going to address in this fight against precariousness, because many of them have been out of PREVPAP, even if they have the conditions. I have spoken with a number of them, Mrs Deputies, so I fully understand the issue and it is one of the areas in which we want to intervene on a permanent basis, i.e. ending with the precariousness of the bond. But when it comes to the 90 000 term contracts, or if they are estimated to be precarious, I have to give you another number which is: about 90 % of the term contracts within the Public Administration are due to the dynamics of careers, such as in the area of education, higher education, the Armed Forces. Therefore, we have the notion that, in fact, temporary needs have to have a temporary response, as was the question of covid which significantly increased contracts to term. When we're talking about permanent needs, we'll respond on a permanent basis. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u394	I give the floor again to Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u395	Mr President, we have learned that when a worker plays a permanent role and must indeed have an effective link, the response that the Government has to give is « career-specific dynamics ».
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u396	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u397	That is what will solve the problem of these workers! Is that what you're talking about? Yes, the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State. Members of the Government, what is needed is to combat, in practice, precariousness,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u398	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u399	... with concrete measures and solutions, but it is also necessary to value careers. We have recently referred to the question of careers, progress, the need to value those who work in the Public Administration, which are exactly the issues that need to be resolved with concrete aspects that have to be translated into everyday life and in strengthening rights and valuing the wages of workers themselves. In my remaining time, I would also like to address one last issue on this subject, also about the consequences of the storms that have hit many populations in our country, not by instrumentating the issue, of course, as others choose to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u400	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u401	We address this issue in a serious way, in fact, how serious it is also our intervention at the level of local power...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u402	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u403	...to solve concrete problems of the populations that are already having results.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u404	It's the difference!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u405	If there had not been such interventions, the situation could have been much worse.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u406	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u407	However, I have heard the various elements that have brought to this meeting, but the concrete question I would like to ask the Minister is: what are the commitments, what are the means that the Government will allocate for the recovery that is necessary following the damage caused by the storms? We are talking about the damage caused both in the infrastructure and in the municipal equipment, we are talking about the damage caused by small traders, in the economic activity, and we are talking about the damage caused in the homes of families. What does the government have to give these people? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u408	In reply, you have the floor of the Minister of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u409	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, the government's commitment is very simple and it was the one that was assumed before all the authorships who had, last week and then repeatedly, the damage to the full. The government participates in the effort that municipalities will also have to do—and that is what municipalities have recognized in these dimensions. It is taking part by helping with the instruments that exist, such as the Municipal Emergency Fund and others, strengthening them or even creating new instruments, which will probably have to happen in the area of local trade where there is no instrument specifically prepared to respond to events of this nature. Now, the government will try to approve this even during this year of 2022 so as to be able to have an unbureaucratized and quick process to get the support, which, of course, complies with the normal rules of any public support and which I think no one in this House will withdraw. This support will be centralized, but also sectoral in these more micro areas.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u410	Sectoral? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u411	Therefore, we are on the ground to support the municipalities in this survey and it was these guarantees that we gave at the meeting and, presently, both I and the Minister of Territorial Cohesion that we were in affected councils.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u412	What about the families?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u413	This support is always based on the link between the municipality and the central state and, of course, there are elements such as the emergency response, where the response of the municipality is much faster, more powerful, more capable of being intervened quickly, with the support of social security that, in fact, if you visit the Loures municipality, will notice that it is already underway. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u414	That's costing!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u415	We now move on to the bench of the Left Block and, to ask questions, Mr José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u416	Mr President, Minister, PREVPAP is 2017 and it is almost odd that we are discussing this programme that should have been completed several years ago. The Minister has already been here, the requirement of the Left Block, to present a point of view and has also promised to update the website, so she would like to ask you, Minister, if you can send to Parliament the updated data, body by body, on all processes, as they were evaluated and if the contests were opened and, if so, when. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u417	To reply, Mr. Secretary of State for Public Administration, Inês Ramires.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u418	Mr President, Mr President, on PREVPAP, which I have now spoken about, I would like to repeat again: within what are the competences of this government area, one of the first acts practised, even by the Minister, was the approval of the processes that were pending.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u419	At least you have an answer, I didn't have it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u420	Therefore, at the moment, the next stage, which is the opening of the competitions inherent in these approved vacancies, is in the responsibility of each of the areas. It seems to me that almost all the CABs, the monitoring committees, already have their reports, but the closure of the entire process, and that the site was initially in the sphere of competence of the Ministry of Labour, because that was where the programme began, had this problem of mismatching with the update. However, we will provide all the information that Parliament is asking us to give. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u421	Mr José Soeiro, from BE, speaks again.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u422	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I would like to stress the question: when will the website be updated and when will it send updated data by agency to Parliament? I wanted you to compromise. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u423	To reply, you have the floor of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u424	Mr President, honourable Member, the website will be updated in terms that I can commit myself to the Ministry of Labour, so I hope that at the beginning of next year it will be able to be updated. As for the data, in January, we will bring all that we have updated from the centralized information. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u425	Mr José Soeiro of BE has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u426	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, we are then waiting for January to make such an assessment. Mr Minister, recently we were talking about inequality, impoverishment, distribution of income, the consequences of government choices on the weight of wages. The Minister replied to me that the Government's objectives are four years old, that we do not have to look only for next year. He then shifted to the subject of the right accounts, but I also wanted to insist with the Minister on the following: what is the government's forecast on the weight of wages in GDP in 2023? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u427	In reply, you have the floor of the Minister of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u428	Mr President, Member of the Commission, the agreement signed in the form of a social agreement contains all the rationality and all the figures that the Government has sought to propose to the partners on the path which it considers necessary in view of the prospects for GDP development, which are public, and what would be necessary for wages to increase during that same period, year by year, in order to meet the Government's essential commitment: the increase of wages in GDP. Even today the Banco de Portugal has just confirmed a higher GDP growth than expected, and therefore the numbers that it will find now do not allow me to make the accounts in its presence of what that will mean, but what do they allow me to do? They allow me to make the commitment — which we have already made in writing with the social partners and with the public administration unions — that, being our goal, we will find the way we set out to achieve it there. The honourable Member says that I say it's four years old and I say nothing more. No, that is not what I say, I say that we have set an objective for the legislature and we have also defined a path in function, as you know, of forecasts of the GDP we know. However, if they change, we may have to change this path if wage developments really exceed what is in the Social Concertion Agreement, which can also happen, as you know. So this is the compromise that we have to sit back every year, look at the numbers we expect to know, recognizing here in the first debate that I had with you, Mr President, that this year, due to inflation and GDP growth due to a recovery after the pandemic, this will not happen. I don't quite understand where I come from, besides telling him: the goal is four years, it's set a way to get there, which we will succeed, if we need, to achieve it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u429	Mr José Moura Soeiro, from BE, continues to use the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u430	Mr President, Minister, the government says it wants to increase the weight of wages in GDP, that it wants to take that step forward, but every year it takes a step back. This year, the weight of wages in GDP has already worsened and, for the year, it will get much worse. That is why I ask you about the forecast of wages in GDP for next year, but the Minister is unable to answer. We do not want to compromise with a number because it says « our goal is to increase the weight of wages in GDP », but what they are doing every year is to reduce it. This is the contradiction of government. What is really happening is a structural impoverishment, while the government is sailing ahead in the management of inflation, with extraordinary support that do not recover the wage. Therefore, there is impoverishment and increase of inequalities. The question about the weight of wages in GDP is basically a question on which is the model of Country, of economy, of work that this government wants. The Minister either either does not answer me or, then, diverts the conversation to the right accounts, which are not an economic model, which are not a strategy. We can have certain accounts with enormous inequalities, poverty and precariousness or we can have certain accounts with balance in the distribution of income, wage gains for workers and regulation of work, which is not what we are having. What is happening is not just loss of wages and increase in inequality. There are whole groups that have no answer! For example, a person, a young or less young person who earns 1000 € is out of the outstanding benefits announced; it does not have to pay the income of 700 €, whether to live in Lisbon, Porto or other city; if you have a loan, that loan will rise to 150 € or 180 € in your monthly allowance; it will not have an increase in salary. An increase of 5, 1 % — below inflation has been announced! — which has been agreed with the employers and with the UGT ( General Workers' Union ) in the context of social consultation, but the generality of companies is not increasing wages by 5, 1 %. Moreover, most of the people, these precarious workers, these'milieurists' are not even covered by collective bargaining! They are in companies where there is no union, where there is no committee of workers and they will not be covered. And the income agreement which provides for the 5, 1 % — which is a impoverishment, below inflation — does not mean that employers make these increases, as we are seeing now, just ask the workers. Therefore, these people have no answer in extraordinary support, they have no answer in housing, they have no answer in the income agreement. Madam Minister, the problem is that this economic model, this government enthusiasm with the public accounts and the self-satisfaction of the Socialist Party, for these people, is not enough! I wanted to finish with a note about the fillings. I want to record our solidarity with the victims, our recognition to whom you have responded — civil protection, elected locals, firefighters. However, we hope that the words on support mechanisms will have consequences, because what we saw in the pandemic was great promises and announcements of measures that were later translated into zero execution, as happened with five of the support to the economy that was announced or with the brute delays or with the rules that were always changing. So I hope this is not the case in response to the weather and its consequences, but we will also be here to assess, monitor and demand answers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u431	In reply, you have the floor of the Minister of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u432	Mr President, Mr Deputy, I am quite surprised by the report that you are doing what has happened in this country. This is because the weight of wages in GDP was falling significantly by 2015, in fact by 2016, because sometimes policies are slow to take effect. Since then, it has grown every year, with an exception, which are the years of the pandemic. I imagine that I do not have to explain how good it was for the Portuguese, despite a very significant fall in GDP during the pandemic, that the measures designed by the Government to support employment and wages have allowed wages to remain despite the denominator to change. So I can't understand the description that's been going on over the last few years, and that's what's keeping us away from it. [[Protests from BE José Moura Soeiro.]] Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. The weight of wages in GDP has been recovered since the beginning of this government. What's going on? It happens that this crisis causes the path we have set to achieve our goal has been delayed, but we will be here to recover it! My commitment is simple, and we will be here to follow you, ensuring that you can rest because your concern is at the heart of my concerns. Now, there is something I cannot help but notice: all the discourse that the Left Block makes here about the impoverishment of Portuguese society is absolutely equal to that bench there. She pointed to the bench of the PSD Parliamentary Group. [[PSD protests.]] And we are very clear when we see that, for those who were so concerned with identifying where left-wing policy is, the report on support, the report on impoverishment, the report on wages is the very same thing done there, Mr President. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u433	Mrs. Minister, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u434	Therefore, Mr, we will be here to continue the path started in 2015, the recovery of wages and the improvement of the living conditions of families. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u435	Mr Inês de Sousa Real has now the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u436	Mr President, Madam Minister, even with regard to the PRR, there are two dimensions that I cannot fail to mention in this second round. A first relates to the renegotiation of the execution of the PRR. We know that there is EUR 16 billion to be allocated. The NAP has repeatedly questioned the government about this money and the need for it to be allocated to the adaptation of the territory, which is one of the areas very forgotten within the RPP because we cannot confuse mitigation with adaptation. And knowing that Portugal will be one of the countries most affected by climate change—it is enough to see how full we are now talking and that we are going to be hit the door more and more frequently, as the Minister has acknowledged—and that extreme climate effects have already lost the country the equivalent of 5% of GDP in the last two decades, I wonder if, for the Government, adaptation to climate change will be a priority in this renegotiation. Are you going to be on the agenda or not? On the other hand, with regard to the execution of some funds, particularly on the axis of the fight against the energy crisis, we have found that only 19 % of the planned funds for energy efficiency of buildings have been implemented, only 12 % of the planned funds for sustainable mobility have been implemented and, worse, none of the planned funds for the decarbonisation of the industry has been spent. So I ask you what analysis does of this assessment, why this delay and what the government is going to do to mitigate it. Finally, I would like to ask you another question, Mrs Minister. These full evidenced a fragility in the performance of civil protection with regard to animal relief, which the NAP had already denounced. Taking away the animal protection associations that were on the ground, there were few cases where animals could be rescued in a timely manner. So, when is their inclusion in the civil protection plans and proper training for the different agents on the ground?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u437	To reply, Mr. Secretary of State for Planning, Eduardo Pinheiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u438	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the PRR, and as already mentioned here, the reprogramming we have been running, which would always occur, on the one hand, by the increase mentioned here and which is EUR 1600 million — is the value we are talking about — but also by the increase due to the REPower EU, which is around EUR 700 million. Then there is a third dimension that has to do with the moment, the situation we live in, and the solution does not go through a new PRR, which has been created for a concrete objective, but by adapting it with small nuances regarding its implementation, particularly in time, even if it meets the deadline of 2026. It is in this sense that we are working with the various government areas to do this analysis. It is a housework and we will start negotiations with the European Commission from January onwards. Therefore, it is with the identification of priorities made by the various government areas that we do this work. With regard to the implementation of energy efficiency in particular, I must say that this is one of the cases which has had good implementation rates from a financial point of view. In particular, with regard to sustainable mobility, in addition to works of great size that are known, whether from the metro of Porto or Lisbon, there is also the acquisition of buses. The works, by their size, are in progress, but, as you must imagine, we cannot pay beyond the advances before having their cars. Therefore, the process is in progress. In the acquisition of buses, we are also in a very advanced process, but if there is an area in which we all recognise that we have difficulties, it is precisely in the provision of these equipment. Therefore, the process will make its way and we have the guarantee that everything will be executed until 2026. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u439	To speak on behalf of the Free, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u440	Mr President, Mrs Minister, recently complained that it was only about PRR. Let me point out to you that the money from REPower EU — EUR 700 million — serves for things that are very necessary. Of this money, EUR 140 million is to isolate and cover homes of low-income families, where it rains, and they have to start to be executed next year. We need particular attention to be paid to them, because that means that, in the next winter, there are people who can be protected and who are not here. But let me make the transition from the rain inside the house to a subject that I have already spoken to you during the Budget and of which I need to speak again, because of the gravity that you have acquired in the meantime. We have already talked about the Trade Square, because of the ministries that are going to leave there, but today, I wanted to talk to you, because we know that a significant part, and of the noblest, of the Trade Square, the Torreão Poente, three winters ago, has no coverage. So when it rained in a few hours, 10 % of all that was supposed to rain during the year, within the Tower Bridge of the Market Square, it rained like it would have rained here if there were no coverage. And it's not a less important building than this one. Let me tell you: the competence of this Tower Poente is from the City Hall of Lisbon, not from the government, and goes through, in fact, PS and PSD. What I want to do here is not to attribute guilt, but to call everyone to responsibility — City Hall of Lisbon, State, civil society too — to speak together and to worry about it! [[PSD MP Protests António Proa.]] We don't have to worry only when there's a overthrow and we're news in the international press because we have a rainy crown jewel. It may be because of my professional deformation, but also because of this professional deformation, I would not be well aware if I did not warn that a national heritage—and more than national—of humanity, although it is not yet officially—is at risk.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u441	Look at the weather!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u442	The honourable Member has to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u443	I shall conclude, Mr President. That's all they're leaving me, too. I don't understand, on a subject that should join us all, what is the reason for the controversy not to let me stop talking.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u444	He's out of time again!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u445	At a time when there is the transfer of the ministries and the commemoration of the 50 years of April, what I ask you, Mrs Minister, is that you touch the alarm and that a ministry and authorities on a joint mission to save the heritage and protect it for the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u446	Do it again!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u447	The gentlemen. Members who begin to interrupt a speaker when the speaker starts to exceed time only prejudice the conditions for concluding that speaker's speech. [[CH protests and L-protests.]] It will respond if the House permits — Mr State Secretary of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, André Moz Caldas.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u448	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Rui Tavares, is recorded here, which signals to us about the Tower Bridge. The state's heritage is the responsibility of another government area, the relationship with local authorities as well, but the importance of what it presents to us all, and it is clear that the issue will be properly addressed. As regards the questions that have been raised about the aggregation of ministries in the General Deposit Box building, still this morning was published in the II Series of the Journal of the Republic the order that determines the establishment of the working group. This process will now have a significant acceleration and the timetables with which the Minister has committed herself to the parliamentary debate — I think, indeed, that with you, the Council is perfectly up to date. In the heritage which is under the responsibility of the government area of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, there have been interventions which I invite you to visit. We have ensured the maintenance of all the heritage we have to bear. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u449	We thus conclude this item on our agenda. We say goodbye to the government and we move on to the second point of our agenda and proceed with the vote on the Rules of Procedure. I call on the services operating the system for the quorum registration period and on the Members. Members who proceed to the register. [[Pause.]] I wonder if any Member of Parliament or some Member of Parliament has not been able to register. [[Pause.]] Mr. Duarte Pacheco came at an accelerated pace, but in time to be registered. We have a quorum, so we shall then proceed to the vote. We begin with the vote on draft resolution No 318 / XV / 1. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to Brazil. [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PS, the PS, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the NAP and the L and votes against the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u450	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u451	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u452	It is to inform the Bureau that I shall make a statement of vote in writing on behalf of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u453	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We now vote on Parliamentary Inquiry No 5 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Possible parliamentary investigation committee to ascertain the potential interference of the Prime Minister in the autonomy of the Banco de Portugal to protect the daughter of the President of Angola. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the CH and the IL and abstentions against the PSD and the NAP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 306 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends the evaluation of the implementation of principles of restorative justice for criminal mediation. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the IL, the CFP, the PAN and the L, against the CH and abstentions of the PSD and BE.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 298 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — By the condemnation of the World 2022 in Qatar. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L, votes against the CH and abstention from the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u454	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u455	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u456	It is to inform me that I will make a statement of vote in writing on behalf of the PS bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u457	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We now vote on the Resolution Project No. 252 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the protection and appreciation of the Forest Perimeter das Dunas de Ovar. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L, votes against the IL and abstentions from the PS and the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u458	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u459	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u460	It is to announce that I will make a statement of vote on behalf of my own.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u461	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u462	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u463	I think it will be for the same purpose, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u464	Yes, Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that I will present a statement of vote on behalf of the Members elected by the Aveiro circle.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u465	Can you decline your names, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u466	The names of the Members who will present the statement of vote are as follows: Bruno Aragão, Cláudia Santos, Filipe Neto Brandão, Hugo Oliveira, Joana Sá Pereira, Porfirio Silva and Rosa Venâncio.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u467	The multiplication factor of the number of subscribers exceeded the speed of sound propagation. Be registered, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. We shall now proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 96 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Exemption from attempting to reconcile the divorce proceedings without the consent of the other spouse in cases of conviction for domestic violence crime ( amendment to the Civil Code and the Civil Procedure Code ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the CFP, the BE and the NAP and with the abstentions of the PSD and the L.]] We move on to the final overall vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Budgets and Finance on the Proposal for a Law No 40 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to review the legislation relating to the activity of collective investment agencies. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against the IL, the PCP, the BE, the NAP and the L, and abstentions against the PSD and the CH.]] We must also vote on the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture and Fisheries on the request for urgent procedure in the course of the proposal for a Law No 23 / XV / 1. a ( ALRAM ) — For the financial accountability of the State for the use of air resources in the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( amendment to Decree-Law No 45 / 2019 of 1 April ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the CH, the PCP, the BE and the L, the PSD and the NAP and the abstention of the IL.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on an opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, which I would ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u468	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Aveiro — Judge General of Espinho — Judge 2, Case 629 / 19.3T9ESP, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Joaquim Pinto Moreira ( PSD ) to give written testimony as a witness within the scope of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u469	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We are thus at the end of our work. The next plenary meeting...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u470	Mr. President, I'm sorry, but I can't register.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u471	And Mrs. Marta is afraid only now that you understand?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u472	Mr President, as you may hear, my microphone is not working properly. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-12-16.u473	An out-of-time boycott to Mrs. Marta Feared, IT. You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. I was drawing attention to two important things, namely, the next plenary session is on Tuesday, 20th, and it includes a voting period. The session began at 3 p.m. and, as a first point, an urgent debate called for by the Arrival on "Suspects of corruption in the Ministry of National Defence". The second point follows the general assessment of the Law Proposal No 47 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Regulates the contributions of temporary solidarity on the energy and food distribution sectors in conjunction with the Bill Nos 383 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Extraordinary contribution on profits, combating speculation and monopoly practices, 384 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Establish an additional rate on extraordinary profits, 389 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Prevents payment of equity and bonus payments by credit institutions and 399 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Determines the distribution of excessive profits of licensed energy undertakings to operate on the national market to their customers who have received public financial support between 2008 and 2022. On the third item of the agenda there is the joint debate, in general, of Bill Nos 144 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Alter the Legal Regime of Territorial Management Instruments, Decree-Law No 80 / 2015, of 14 May, 387 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Amends the Legal Regime of Territorial Management Instruments in order to ensure processes for the development, modification or revision of the most democratic, participatory and respectful territorial programmes and plans of the environment and will of the people and 393 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 80 / 2015 of 14 May approving the revision of the Legal Regime of Territorial Management Instruments. At the fourth item on the agenda, we have the joint discussion of Resolution Projects Nos. 276 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — By suspension of extradition agreements with the People's Republic of China and Hong Kong, as recommended by the European Parliament and 286 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government undertake urgent assessment of the implications of the National Security Act applicable in Hong Kong, adopted by the Standing Committee of the National People's Assembly of China on 30 June 2020, in the relevant agreements concluded between Portugal and Hong Kong, within the framework of asylum, migration, visas and residence policies and in the fundamental rights of the Portuguese community residing in that territory. The fifth point is generally discussed in the Proposal for a Law No 87 / XIV / 2. a ( ALRAM ) — About the allocation of insularity allowance, together with Bill Nos 350 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Eliminates inequalities in the allocation of the fixation supplement to staff of the Prison Guard in functions in autonomous regions ( fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 3 / 2014 of 9 January ) and 391 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Ensures the insularity allowance for all public officials of the Autonomous Regions of Madeira and the Azores. At the sixth item on the agenda we generally have the discussion of the Bill No 95 / XIV / 2. a ( ALRAM ) — By valuing the ultraperipheral condition of the athlete student — The first amendment is made to Decree-Law No 55 / 2019 of 24 April 2019. vote on the seventh and last items of the agenda. I wish everyone a very good weekend. The sitting is thus closed. [[It was 13 hours and 59 minutes.]]
