ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have quorum, all parliamentary groups are represented and we are going to start our work. The session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the galleries to the public. The first item on the agenda is the assessment of Bill No. 243 / XV / 1. a ( IL), generally in conjunction with Resolution Projects Nos 188 / XV / 1. ( IL), 189 / XV / 1. a ( IL) and 224 / XV / 1. a (IL) as well as, in general, with Bills Nos. 289 / XV / 1. a ( PAN), 292 / XV / 1. a ( BE), 300 / XV / 1. a ( CH), 302 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) and 303 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ). To submit Bill No. 243 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — End of the limits for fixing vacancies for international students in private and cooperative higher education establishments and Resolution Projects Nos 188 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Recommends that the Government review the financing model for higher education establishments, 189 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Recommends that the Government evaluate the Legal Scheme of Higher Education Institutions and 224 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Recommends that the Government anticipate the results of the National Public Higher Education Access and Entry Competition for the academic year 2023 - 2024, has the floor to Mrs Carla Castro.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u2	Did the PS MPs all sleep? Don't you put on the alarm clock? Oh, my God! [[Shame!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u3	I would ask Mrs Carla Castro to make her speech. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today is the day we tell families and students that we do not want them to know again how to enter the university at the top of the hour. Today it is time to tell the higher education institutions that we care about their sustainability and that we want to enforce the laws that have been ignored and change those that have to be changed. I begin with a question: what does private universities have a 30 % vacancy limit for international students? Troubled? Oh, my God! It is that this is the first proposal that the Liberal Initiative brings today to an end with this limitation. The collection of foreign students benefits universities, because it powers own revenue and promotes the quality of education, as it benefits the national economy. It seems to us a completely unjustified obstacle to the internationalization of the institutions themselves, which are directly funded by their students and which enjoy financial, administrative and pedagogical autonomy. Why the government's limitation? The following proposals from the IL are to review the financing model of higher education establishments and evaluate the legal regime. The financing must be made with a formula that determines the budget allocation for the various institutions, a formula that—see! — dates back to 2006, but has not been applied since 2009. I mean, it doesn't work, but it doesn't change either. It doesn't make sense, you have to go through it. But legal violations don't stay here. The legal regime has also been awaiting an evaluation for 10 years, which is noted in the law and its need is unanimous in the educational community. Question : Is that what we are moving forward with? Finally, an essential proposal, because I do not believe that we all in this House do not recognize that this needs to be changed. We need to give a clear signal to students and families and anticipate the results of the National Public Higher Education Access and Admission Competition, already for this school year, of 2023 - 2024. That is, we need to know earlier from the university entrance. Every summer the story repeats: students start to sign up in July and only know the results in mid-September. In practice, this means that thousands of new students have about one week to deal with registrations and, if they are displaced, accommodation. This causes anxiety, absenteeism from parents, changes and hasty decisions. With the data necessary for the already computerised process and numerous solutions available, this enormous response time is not justified. It changed the time, but it didn't change the response speed to the students. It does not help the PS or the government to say that everything is planned or planned. It's also in the law and it's not being done. It is necessary, yes, to act, to do, to take these steps. It's time to approve these projects, it's time to signal to students and families who are at the center of politics, it's time to do and not delay. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u5	Madam Member, the Bureau does not record entries for requests for clarification, so that I give the floor to Mrs Joana Mortágua, to present Bill No. 292 / XV / 1. a (BE) — Alter the nature of the financing of higher education institutions by extinguishing the foundational regime. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Higher education currently has 433 000 registered students and the number of students to apply for social assistance has risen more than 16 % in September last year. These data reveal a huge desire of Portuguese youth and Portuguese youth to attend higher education, their families to bet on their higher education, but also an increasing difficulty in meeting the frequency costs of universities. The school year is beginning, and among so many new students, there are already those who are willing to give up, according to what has been alerted by student associations. Everything indicates that the rate of leaving higher education this year will be higher than the previous years, much worsened, by the difficulty of income, by the increase in prices, because the residences are about to be built, because there are no rooms to rent, because the few rooms that exist are too expensive and because the scholarships of school social action are consumed mainly by the tips. The State supports with the hand of social action and takes the hand of the propines. Portugal is far below the investment by student, which exists on average in the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) and it is clear that we need more investment in public higher education institutions. The Legal Regime of Higher Education Institutions ( RJIES) created by the Socialist Party in 2007 promised to create autonomy through the foundational regime. Fifteen years later, we see that the pressure for public higher education institutions to pass to foundations did not solve any of the problems of autonomy and created new problems. 15 years ago, the government appealed, expressed financial incentives, but these financial incentives never arrived or were never fully transferred to the institutions. The foundational model revealed a poisoned present, and the biggest poison, as we see now, was emptying public responsibility for the financing of public higher education. As a result, many institutions see their financial sustainability at stake. Many are obliged to find 50 % of own funds, which means, on the one hand, debridging the State and, on the other, putting the institutions under constant financial pressure. This leads, as is natural, to an increase in the cost for students, due to the increase in propines in the 2nd. o is 3. the cycles and rates and emoluments, and also leads, as it is good to see, to the alienation of heritage. While students are desperate to find a home, there are universities that are alienating heritage to build hotels. The universities of public higher education today depend on precarious teachers and researchers and cannot guarantee basic things such as student housing. This is the main consequence of the underfinancing of public higher education, and the main reason for underfinancing was the foundational regime, the Legal Regime of Higher Education Institutions. What the Left Block proposes is that all legal regimes of the public institutions should be equivalent to each other, because we believe that this is the necessary step to hold the State accountable for its investment. This is the necessary step, too, for the end of the tips. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u7	I now give the floor to Mr. Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro, of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, to present Bill No. 300 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Alter Law No 62 / 2007 of 10 September establishing the Legal Regime of Higher Education Institutions, densifying the need for evaluation of the RJIES. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Higher education has reached the historic peak of 433 000 enrolled students this year. I'll bring three questions. First question: what is the relationship between the undeniable statistical success of higher education and the quality and usefulness of the courses taught? This is one of the most perverse taboos of higher education. Second question : in Portugal, the current historical cycle of the greatest ever expansion of higher education coincides with or does not coincide with the historical cycle of strong aggravation of public debt, impoverishment and fragility of institutions? I'm talking about teaching, but I could be talking about justice, economics, security and out there. Unfortunately, it coincides. Something is deeply wrong in higher education. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u9	The poorest and most mal-governant countries on the planet today suffer from the same problems. Mozambique and Angola are examples of this. Third question: what should we demand of young university students? We must demand that they be friends of knowledge and to undo misconceptions that threaten it: what is and is not scientific or analytical knowledge; what separates science from common sense, in particular, what separates science from ideology and political and ideological manipulation;... [[Congrats from the CH.]] ...that principles must guarantee the unconditional freedom of students in higher education institutions—I am speaking of intellectual freedom. Since the 18th century, the notable scientific achievements have resulted from intellectual freedom born of unequivocal autonomy between the faith, the Church, and the reason, of the university. Current higher education sinks into misconceptions born of the toxic mixture between power and reason. Politics has colonized university. The doctrine is killing intellectual freedom, scientific rigor, institutional autonomy of higher education, the prestige of universities. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The symptoms are terrifying: the ISCTE is of the Socialist Party,... [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u10	...the Social Studies Center, Coimbra, is the Left Block,... [[Congrats from the CH.]] ... the PCP has stitches in virtually all universities. [[PCP laughter.]] The financial asphyxiation of higher education and the asphyxiation of knowledge are two sides of the same coin. It is impossible to solve the financial problem of universities without solving the problem of knowledge, hence the Arrival submit to this Chamber a draft review law, five every five years, of the Legal Regime of Higher Education Institutions. The original diploma in 2007 was enshrined in Article 185. the, that the law would be reviewed five years after its entry into force. It's been 15 years! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Portuguese are smart. As in the past, of the Inquisition, they will discover that the nets of power have always been and will be in the hands of the owners of the heads. Between the 19th and 20th centuries, the mental control of societies passed from the Church to school, that is, to the state and top of the pyramid, to the mental control of peoples, to the cathedral to the university. It was when the left took the universities to rob the heads of each new generation. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Today, the most common Portuguese give signs of knowing that they live in the most subversive dictatorships: "left-minded dictatorship". A university that neither perceives nor lets perceive the phenomenon is the enemy of the permanent search for truth, is the enemy of the search for an ideal society and that no young university can tolerate. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u11	To submit drafts of Law Nos 302 and 303 of the CFP,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u12	PS Deputies have arrived now! Open... [[Just now?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u13	They don't like working!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u14	Can you please allow the House to work? [[Pause.]] Thank you very much. To submit Law Nos 302 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Measures to support students in higher education within the framework of school social action and 303 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Elimination of tips, taxes and emoluments in public higher education, has the floor of Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u15	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP brings to debate two proposals. The first proposal concerns the elimination of propines, taxes and emoluments in public higher education, ensuring the freeness of education, as our Constitution recommends. In the current context of worsening the living conditions of families, with the speculative increase in the price of essential goods and without the corresponding recovery and recovery of purchasing power, it becomes even more urgent to reduce access and frequency costs related to higher education by eliminating propines, rates and emoluments, while strengthening the mechanisms of school social action. The tips constitute an obstacle to access to higher education, especially for the children of workers. It is more than proven that the propines do not serve nor have ever served to increase the quality of higher education. In fact, they have been used to close the underfunding of higher education institutions. The government's deresponsibility in public funding has been associated with increased direct accountability of families through the payment of propines, fees and emoluments. In many higher education institutions, transfers from the State budget do not even cover current expenditure. Sometimes they do not cover the costs of the remuneration of their workers. A few days ago it was reported that Portugal is one of the OECD countries that less invests in higher education. The CFP has been showing the need for a new higher education financing law to ensure the proper financing of institutions for the fulfilment of their specific mission, with quality. A new law guaranteeing an investment budget for quality, as well as the institutional response conditions to issues such as adaptation for the inclusion of students, the guarantee of accessibility for people with disabilities or reduced mobility, the updating and modernization of spaces and equipment or the consideration of classified or grading heritage, also taking into account their territorial reintegration. The second proposal we bring concerns the strengthening of social action in school, by extending access to scholarships, to ensure that all students are able to attend higher education and that none abandon them due to socio-economic motivations. We propose an increase in the number of scholarship recipients, increasing the income of the eligible aggregate in order to cover all students who are included in the third step of the family allowance, as well as the extension of the allocation of the automatic scholarship to all students who enter higher education through specialized technical courses, thus ensuring that these students are not discriminated against in front of others, even being in equal economic situation. It is also essential to invest in residences, ensuring student accommodation for students who are displaced. at this point, there are enormous delays in the requalification and construction of the homes that are necessary. Given the increase in living costs, given the insufficient response due to school social action, given the reduced offer at the level of student accommodation, many of the students who entered higher education this year may not have the conditions to attend the course for which they have just entered. This is an extremely important and worrying issue, because it requires increased investment at the level of higher education. To ensure that all students have access to the highest grades of education implies an investment in higher education, as I have already mentioned, implies a national and collective investment, not an individual investment of the student attending. Investment in higher education is essential for the development of the country and has a return to the productive, cultural, artistic, scientific and technological plane. The adequate funding of higher education institutions, through the State budget, and the freeness of higher education are fundamental to putting an end to inequalities and discrimination between students, being also conditions for deepening democracy and for creating and merging knowledge at the service of collective development. Equally relevant is the need to put an end to the foundational regime and to the prospect of marketing and privatization of higher education that is underlying it, as the CFP advocates, as well as to establish a model of democratic management of higher education institutions that ensures genuine autonomy in the organisation, participation and democratic management required by the Constitution, involving teachers, researchers, students and employees. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u16	Presentations were made of the bills and the Bureau did not record any entries for the debate. Let us, then, proceed to the closure. Mr. Rodrigo Saraiva asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u17	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u18	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u19	I would just like to confirm whether, at this point, we are discussing issues relating to higher education, the Socialist Party and the Social Democratic Party — for this reason I see! — they abstain from participating in this debate. Is that what's happening? It was just to confirm. [[PS and PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u20	Mr President, what happens is this: Mrs Inês de Sousa Real also has initiatives to present, but she is meeting with the Government, in consultation due to the opposition parties on the proposal for a State budget. So when the honourable Member arrives, she will present her project. [[Protests by CH Member Pedro dos Santos Frazão.]] However, on the basis of this warning, I find that registrations are under way and we will therefore proceed with the debate. For an intervention, Mrs Maria João Castro of the Socialist Party is inscribed and has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We discussed nine initiatives that refer to many central subjects of higher education, to projects on the financing law, the Legal Regime of Higher Education Institutions, the access regime and school action. We affirm the fundamental: it is crucial to bet on higher education, which is the engine of scientific, cultural, technological and economic progress for the production of knowledge, innovation and wealth, to combat inequalities. Data from recent years indicate an extraordinary increase in the number of students. More than half of the young Portuguese 20-year-olds attend higher education,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... which represents a 25 % increase between 2015 and 2021. A path towards democratization is also being made, with the extension of the social base of those who enter. We have more migrant students, more luso-descendants, more students with specific educational needs, more foreign. This has been a systematic and coherent path of the PS, implemented from 2016 onwards in the legislative contracts signed between the Government and higher education institutions, with a view to collective accountability. These contracts have introduced stability, predictability and strengthening of funds into the system in order to ensure an effective process of European convergence by 2030. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u22	The current contract, which ends in 2023, establishes an annual growth in the budget of the institutions, ensuring that they can organize their processes in advance. In compliance with this legislative contract there will be an increase of more than 3 % by 2023. Through a stable and planned framework of public funding, it is aimed at diversifying teaching-learning, strengthening research activity, promoting articulation with companies and the Public Administration, strengthening internationalization and expanding the social base of participation in higher education, increasing direct and indirect social support to more students, with more money. This is a path that we defend and that, above all, we have materialized in actions. So we frozen the propines and then we lowered their value for the current €697. Imagine, if we hadn't done it, how much would a student pay today to enter higher education! [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have increased the number of scholarships, which in recent years has risen 30 %, and we have also increased their value. More bags, higher bags, lower tips, this was the way made. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is on this path that it is important to list some concrete measures of social support that we have taken to respond to the current situation: the increase in the eligibility threshold in the award of scholarships; the new addition to the study grant, at a maximum of €250, to support students in the travel between their home and the place where they study; the updating of the accommodation supplements for displaced students up to €288; the allocation of a housing supplement for students moving from the country of residence in emergency for humanitarian issues; the significant reinforcement of the master's scholarships, ranging from €871 to €2750 in support of the payment of propines; the strengthening of the financing of the National Plan for Accommodation in Higher Education, with the aim of exceeding 26,000 beds up to 2026.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u24	We know that there is still much way to go and many problems to be solved, and we know that there are improvements to be made in many central areas, such as the financing model and the system's own architecture. Therefore, we will not imperil the discussion on the financing formula — a review which, in fact, the Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education announced here and whose work is under way — nor on the evaluation of the RJIES, a very important instrument, but which, over time, needs to be evaluated. I conclude: the commitment of the PS to Portuguese is to defend the quality of higher education, capable of meeting the requirements of a constantly changing society, and we will do so without fear of an open and frank debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u25	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Alexandre Poço has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: We are in this debate...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u27	No proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u28	... with one word, « concern».
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u29	No proposals, that's two words!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u30	And we're worried about three reasons. First of all, because, in the beginning of this school year, the feedback we are receiving from students, associations and all the news about the beginning of the school year 2022 - 2023 indicates a great concern about the ability to attend higher education. There is, for example, a fact that this House cannot ignore: we had almost 50 000 students placed in higher education, but when we check the registration—that is, when we know how many of them, who have been placed, actually enrolled— we find that more than 10 % have not made their registration. On the other hand, we are also concerned about the cost...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u31	Did you compare the numbers?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u32	Mr President, we have heard very recently. Mrs. Members, I said that, on the other hand, higher education institutions are also concerned about the increases in energy cost, with the increase in the cost anticipated by 2023 in all their expenses and, until we see, we have no guarantee from the Minister of Higher Education regarding the increase in the budget by 2023. This second concern only reinforces the third because the Minister of Higher Education himself, Prof. Elvira Fortunato, said a few days ago, in an interview, that she was also concerned. Now, if the students are placed, but more than 10 % do not register, if we know of the difficulties many have in getting a room—we have had this discussion here and we can come back to you again, because it is already a finding for all, including, I think, for the Socialist Party, that there is no accommodation capacity for the displaced students—,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u34	... we also leave a challenge: there are protocols with private accommodation units, is or is not the government available to carry out a contract, for example with the authorities, with the IPDJ (English Institute of Sport and Youth) or with the Movijovem, which holds youth hostels? [[Protests by PS MP Miguel Matos.]] In other words, this concern is intended to respond to a need for higher education students today. I know that the Socialist Party — and we have had this discussion here many times — continues to play with the 15 000 beds and repeats: « 15 000 beds, 15 000 beds, 15 000 beds».
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u35	Unlike the gentlemen, who closed their beds!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u36	But we cannot spend our lives promising a resolution for 2026 when what students need is a bed for today.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u37	What is the increase in the value of the propines that you propose? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u38	On the other hand, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very important for the Socialist Party to say clearly whether it will enter this school year with an effective response, for example, in an area that had no answer in the State budget for 2022. Now that we are three days from the presentation of the State Budget for 2023, I wonder if this is what we are going to have an answer in the area of mental health. [[PSD applause.]] If the gentlemen. Members will hear the students will realize that, in addition to accommodation, there is another serious problem that is currently marking their lives, a mental health problem. In the State budget for 2022 there was no single answer. Colleges and polytechnics do not have the capacity to respond because they do not have the means. It is important to know whether the Socialist Party is comfortable with another year so—so the PSD presented a draft resolution to ensure compliance with the financing law—and, in particular, whether or not the Government is going to increase the budget in a value equal to that of inflation, that is, 7-4 %, or whether it will put a financial truncheon in institutions that will withdraw their ability to help those who need it most, particularly in terms of social action and mental health. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] I know the Socialist Party is uncomfortable, even because they read the interview the Minister gave this week to the Express. If the Minister of Higher Education himself says she is concerned about housing, which is concerned about financing, which is concerned about energy costs, which is concerned about the students displaced, what will not the Portuguese, families, students think? And what will not the other parties think, particularly the main party of the opposition? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have full availability, and that is why we also presented our proposal this month,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u39	What proposal?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u40	... to review the model of higher education financing. We propose a model that cautions the performance of institutions—for a long time we have said this! — a model that increases the number of institutions located within the country, a model that enhances scientific research and strengthens those investing in science.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u41	It's not even enough, it's already being done!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u42	Mr. President and Mr. Members: I conclude by saying that, in fact, whether in accommodation, mental health or funding, Portuguese, families and students can only have one word at the beginning of this school year, « concern ». [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u43	I now give the floor to Mr Rui Tavares of the Free.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Good morning to all and to all. I think I never started an intervention asking where the government is, but one day it would have to be. Where's the government? Oh, my God! I see, or rather I do not see a minister—for more concern than he may have—that he has had the concern and that he has made it necessary to attend a debate on the model of higher education financing and, now, to explain why he says that universities should no longer come down to the value of the tips. There is certainly no more central problem for us and the Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education, we will be discussing now than the model of higher education financing. The Free, thanking, of course, the parties that have put forward initiatives in this area, that is to say what are the great objectives you will have in discussing the speciality if we reach it. The model of higher education financing should be thoroughly revised in Portugal and point to a'trip' in which: there is a tax provision — and yes, I use this word of purpose, because if the Government makes a statement of part of consumption taxes to repair roads, then a part of the tax on economic activity must serve for a strategic fund to support higher education, which, in turn, reverts positively to that economic activity; if it ensures, through the State budget, the operating expenses; and, moreover, a support fund for higher education students for scholarships, restaurants and residences. Because I have no more time, I end by saying, yes, the government must, as soon as possible, invent the public buildings that it already has and where it can build university residences,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u45	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u46	... at least temporary, to solve the problem of higher education students. Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to the parties that have taken initiatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u47	To intervene, on behalf of the Left Block, you have the floor of Mrs. Joana Mortagua.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block has an agenda on student support measures, student support, exchange of scholarships. Today, we are discussing the model of higher education funding and, above all, we are discussing how we can have a higher education that, in the face of any adversity, does not have to walk hand in hand to ask the government for handcuffs, a reality that is not so far away, even in the major universities. The University of Lisbon has already said that it needs to be supported because of rising gas and electricity bills. It's a reality we all know. A university that cannot pay both gas and electricity bills cannot support its students nor give their teachers a decent career. We must also say that this is the reality of most researchers with green receipts — that of precariousness — teachers who work half-time without earning the national minimum wage. We need to discuss whether this is the financing model that serves the public education we want in Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u49	You now have the word, to intervene and present Bill No. 289 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Approves measures to extend the offer of accommodation for higher education students by amending the Housing Bases Act and the IRS Code, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the NAP, it is essential to ensure accommodation for students who, at the moment, have gold-weight incomes, which well summarizes the sad reality of higher education students in Portugal these days, and the government does not respond. For example: at the University of Coimbra, there are beds for only 12 % of the students displaced; in the Port, the income of one room rose 13 % and lived in Penafiel, Lousada or Povoa of Varzim became the new normal, making 80 km per day; in Bragança, the monthly income value rose 21 %; and in Lisbon, a room with a window of less than 400 € is an authentic mirage or fence, there are even those who cover these same values only by one bed or by one expense. These abuses are more than many and there are also questions and questions that are asked to students who are absolutely discriminatory, depending on their origin, ethnicity or even their accent. Anyone who asks for a contract or receipt cannot guarantee access to housing in a safe and even legal way, or is subject to payment of more than € 200 or € 300 and is invited to continue searching. Students cannot be toyed in the hands of real estate speculation or in the promises of a PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan) and of support for student housing, which never arrive again and which do not serve the real needs. Action is needed now to resolve the student housing crisis, because, in this context, the democratity of access to higher education is at stake. We already have parents who see their children have to give up the dream of studying because they can't find a room to stay in. The NAP argues that there are several solutions to mitigate this situation and brings the debate a set of measures such as the fall from 28 % to 10 % of the rate of IRS (tax on income of natural persons) of landlords; the legal forecast of the compulsoryity of all public housing projects provide for a percentage for young people and the housing of higher education students; and the need for the national housing policy to be articulated with the National Plan for Housing in Higher Education. We hope that, in the field of expertise, the other political forces will be available to do this work and the necessary reforms, because the students in our country so require.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u51	To close the debate, Mrs Carla Castro has the floor of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are talking about higher education today. It was time to tell the families and the students that the Liberal Initiative does not want them to know again about university entrance at the latest hour and it was time to tell the higher education institutions that we care about the sustainability of their accounts, the financing of the model and that we want to enforce the laws or change those that have to be changed. We are very pleased to note that, apparently, we will be able to have achievements today, so that we can, in this area too, undertake reforms and start processes that are necessary in higher education. Both the evaluation of the Legal Regime of Higher Education Institutions and the financing model need urgent intervention. There are two issues that we will continue to work on, if our proposals are not approved, and for which we will once again ask this House for due attention. The first is the limitation of 30 % of vacancies for foreign students in higher education institutions, because there is no reason for the government to have this brake on these private entities. Secondly, we reiterate and, if it is not approved, we will continue to fight for a faster placement of students in higher education. Families and students need to know more in time, in order to be able to organize their lives and take away this factor of anxiety and precipitation in the decisions of reallocation and beginning of a new life cycle. It is true that the Liberal Initiative here is going to have solutions, to promote reforms and to improve. Today it was in higher education, other topics will follow. The Liberal Initiative is making a difference and so it will continue. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u53	We thus close the first item on our agenda. We move on to the second point, which is from the assessment of Bill No. 279 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), generally together with the Resolution Project No 218 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), as well as Law Projects Nos 281 / XV / 1. a ( IL), 287 / XV / 1. a ( PAN), 294 / XV / 1. a ( L) and 296 / XV / 1. a ( BE), also in general, and the Resolution Project No 200 / XV / 1. a ( CH). To submit Bill No. 279 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Extension of the day care network and free frequency of daycare facilities and the Resolution Project No 218 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — National lifting of the number of daytime vacancies has the floor of Mrs Clara Marques Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD presents measures aimed at introducing equity, equal treatment and social justice for children and families. I am talking about the measure that we propose to extend the day care network and free of charge of the frequency in day care centres. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Portugal is undergoing a demographic crisis that has been well known. Alongside this crisis, it is also known and recognized the difficulty of families finding vacancies available in day care facilities for their children. This difficulty also adds the cost of existing day care centres, with great weight in family budgets, much more evident in these times of increasing inflation, loss of income and loss of purchasing power. However, these limitations further aggravate the demographic crisis, in addition to being limitations that can and should be overcome by public policies that facilitate the reconciliation between family life and professional life, increase the income of families and the number of day care leavers, these measures that are true incentives to birth. [[PSD applause.]] It happens that the freeness of day care centers, which came into force on 1 September, although being a positive measure, is insufficient and leaves many children behind. For PSD, no child can stay behind, but, as I said, this is what's happening. And why is it happening? Because the government, in implementing the free measure of day care facilities, has excluded the installed capacity of private day care centres, knowing as you know that the public network and social and solidarity sector day care centers do not have the capacity to respond to all children. Despite the fact that the existing vacancies are clearly insufficient to meet the needs, the government has chosen to leave out the installed capacity of private day care centres, with damage to children and their families. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u55	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot accept that, by ideological prejudice, families and children are harmed. We cannot accept that, by ideological prejudice, children are left behind. We cannot accept that, at such a difficult stage as this in which families are in, public policies treat children and their families unequally. [[PSD applause.]] So, first of all, we propose that the freeness of day care facilities be extended to the network of day care facilities that the private sector is able to offer. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is for the children and the families that we present this measure. Moreover, this measure we propose must take effect as of September 2022, the same date when the free-of-charge of the day-care facilities for the social, solidarity and cooperative sector began to apply. Only in this way will equal treatment, equity and social justice be effectively ensured. Finally, it should be said that if the extension of the day care network is indispensable and urgent, only with an updated and geolocalised legislative framework of existing vacancies can the political measures and support for the much-needed coverage of 100 % in day care centres be equalized. We also propose that the Government raise and disseminate the number of vacancies in day care centres, the social and solidarity economy sector and the private sector, by age and parish. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In order for no child to stay behind, we leave the appeal to all political forces to accompany these concerns and to vote in favour of these proposals. So we will all do social justice with families and children. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u56	To submit Bill No. 281 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Ensures the realization of progressive universality in access to day care centres, extending the freeness of day care facilities to the private sector ( Amendment to Law No 2 / 2022 of 3 January ), Mr Rui Rocha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PS and the Government live in the nominal country. The nominal country is wonderful, the nominal country responds to all the hopes of the population and, when it does not respond, there is propaganda, to make it appear that it responds. On the other hand, Portuguese live in the real country, the country of difficulties and the country in which the promises and measures of the PS never really correspond to what has been said. The case of daycare is a paradigmatic example of this difference between the nominal country, the country of the PS, and the real country, the country of people in real life, there is. The PS promised you raised free for everyone. That's the nominal country. But in the Real Country, day care centers are not free for everyone, since of course they are only free for children born after September 2021. In other words, children who were born, for example, in January—when the PS, in an election campaign, promised free daycare for all—do not benefit from this measure.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u58	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u59	Not even all children born after September 2021 have access to free day care centers, for a simple reason: the number of vacancies available is not enough to meet the needs of all children and families. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in today's country, the Real Country, we can have, on the one hand, children of very large families who benefit from the measure of free daycare because they have found a vacancy or were born from September 2021 and, on the other, children of families with difficulties that are not entitled to this measure because they were born at the wrong time, according to the PS accounts, or because they have not found vacancies. This, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is quite unacceptable. However, seeing the disqualification that was being formed in August 2022 two months ago, Mr. Prime Minister promised that private day care should be included in the solution. How are they included in the solution? Nobody knows. What has happened since then? Have there been negotiations? Were there government initiatives to make this inclusion? Nobody knows. How many children are today, even if they were born after September 2021, without access to free day care centers? Nobody knows. Mrs. Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security came to say in this House, in a committee, that she was going to create an e-mail for people to complain. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is with an e-mail for families to complain, that this measure is managed! It is with this leviance that the questions of families in Portugal are treated.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u60	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u61	Today we have a number of legislative initiatives that seem to make access easier, including free day care. However, all initiatives, with the exception of the initiative presented by the Liberal Initiative, have a small problem: families can only resort to private sector day care centres if there are no vacancies in the sector protocoled with social security. Therefore, there are, yes, questions of present ideologies that prevent families from choosing what is best for them. A child who has a private daycare at 500 m from home cannot choose this daycare if there is an IPSS (particular institution of social solidarity) with a vacancy at 5 km from home. Question, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what makes the honourable Members proud. Ladies and gentlemen, sitting in this Chamber, and the government, sitting in the ministries, think they can decide better than their families, who know reality and want the best for their children? The Liberal Initiative does not accept that assumption. If the cost to the State is the same — and it really is the same, in this case we are discussing — the Liberal Initiative has the humility to accept that families decide better than you do. Members and of what the government, sitting in a ministry. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u62	To submit Bill No. 287 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Extends the free frequency of daycare to children who enter private establishment due to the absence of public or protocoled offer, amending Law No 2 / 2022 of 3 January, has the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, public present in the Chamber: As regards free daycare, the NAP brings this issue back to debate and we congratulate ourselves on seeing other political forces join this demand. We insist on these measures because they are of the most elementary justice and must be free of prejudices or ideologies that do not respond to families or, in particular, to the right of access to day care. The truth is that, as it is currently designed, the measure of free daycare leaves 6 out of every 10 children, who, because they do not have public daycare or protocol offer in their area of residence or because they do not have a job in these daycare facilities, will have to go to the private. The choice of the private is not by itself a matter of wealth, but of necessity. As formulated, this measure is a hand full of nothing and a clear social injustice. Despite the government's promises to extend the measure of free daycare to private people, at the moment criticisms and doubts are more than many: in a gesture of distrust over families, it is required to prove that there is no public offer or protocol when this survey should already be made by the Government; it is not said how the support for these families will be processed, not their limits; it is not given the value spent by families between September and December, as if, in private, the school year began in January. And criticism could continue. That is why, in order to put an end to the doubts, the NAP proposes that the right to free daycare should be given to the law and that it should cover all children, go to the public service, an IPSS or a private one. To approve this measure is to ensure that the right to education and reception services in early childhood is truly universal in our country, as established by the Council of Europe, the European Pillar of Social Rights and also our fundamental law. In anticipation of the criticisms of these initiatives, particularly the criticism now made by the Liberal Initiative, I recall that the NAP proposal is based on a criterion of eligibility and not on the allocation of areas of residence, because it is fundamental, I would say again, that this service is truly universal in order to be the most basic social justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u64	To submit Bill No. 294 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Establishs the duty of the Government to collect and disseminate data relating to daycare and public pre-school education establishments and enshrines the universality of pre-school education for children from the age of 3 years, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Free House has the objective of building a public network for day care. This was not the way, it was not the strategy followed by the government, which opted for a gradual free access to day care homes and for, from the age of 4, there was a guarantee of access to kindergartens. Recognizing that the strategy that the Free will would follow is not being followed, which is natural — the Government has the right and the majority to implement its own strategies — what I am proposing is to improve, within the existing strategy, the way we achieve the goals that we all want, that is, that families and children can have access, from early childhood, to day care and to the garden of childhood, in the best available conditions. The Free Initiative therefore aims to remove and disseminate the number of vacancies in all types of day care centres — public, IPSS or private — and the state of the equipment of these day care centres, as well as the assessment of the shortcomings. In addition to being done, this survey must be disclosed so that from there we can start the next academic year with the notion of the state of the art. In addition, the Free proposes that universalization of access to the childhood garden be made from 3 years old, not from 4 years old. It was an objective, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PS, of your own electoral programme, since 2015. There are several resolutions of the Assembly of the Republic which point to this. It is time to pass a bill that basically achieves a goal that is relevant to all of us.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u66	To submit Bill No. 296 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Extends the cooperation agreements for the development of social responses in the nursing Valencia to public entities, Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to child care and day care, we have a number of problems, with different times and reasons. First of all, we have the problem of scarce supply. The survey that exists indicates a daycare coverage rate of only 48 %, which means that most children of the age of attending a daycare centre do not have access to a vacancy. And this includes the social sector and the private sector, that is, there is a scarce offer, in the whole of the total offer of the country. There is another basic problem that has to do with the way child care fits in Portugal. In other words, child care is not part of a public policy of education, unlike what happens with compulsory education or pre-school education. Child care was sent out of the public system, and it was for ideological reasons. For ideological reasons, they were thrown into the sphere of social action, not being a right of children or an obligation of the State, which, in fact, never created a public network of day care centers. The model of social security cooperation for social responses has another rule, which is incomprehensible: it establishes a monopoly of the non-profit private sector for social responses. This is what establishes the PROCOOP (Programme of Celebration or Enlargement of Cooperation Agreements for the Development of Social Responses), a monopoly of the private, non-profit sector for the development of social responses. In other words, the State does not make protocols, it does not make cooperation agreements with any entity other than the so-called'social sector'. If an authority wanted to manage a daycare centre, it could not have a cooperation agreement with social security; if a school grouping, perhaps, wanted to take advantage of a space and develop a daycare centre response, it could not make a cooperation agreement with social security. Why? It is that there are other areas of care, such as continuing care, where the National Network of Integrated Continued Care can establish a cooperation agreement with the private, non-profit social sector, with the private sector and with the public sector, with an authority or with a hospital, to develop these vacancies. In the case of social responses, this is not the case. This means that, when we were able to move forward in the free of charge of day care centres, which is a very important measure for families and, of course, for children, we saw these contradictions: there is no public network, the social sector does not have enough vacancies and those who did not have a vacancy in the non-profit sector, with the cooperation agreement, were excluded from the measure of gratuity. In view of this, what should we do? Immediately, we must guarantee the right to care for all children and that this right to care for them is carried out with the vacancies that exist, without discrimination. Yes, by resorting to the social sector which has cooperation agreements; yes, by resorting to the private sector for profit, when there are no vacancies in this social sector, i.e., supplementaryly and temporarily. contrary to the Liberal Initiative, we do not want to take this opportunity to feed a market, we want to realize a right and, above all, we need to move forward to a public daycare network, change the law of basic education to include daycare in education, build a public network that creates these answers in the future, and move on to frame daycare, child care as a right that must be carried out by the State, because it is a right of all children. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u68	To present the Resolution Project No. 200 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Mr Jorge Galveias has the floor for free daycare throughout the national territory.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u69	H.E. Mr. President, Mr. Members: Today, in the House of Democracy and the Portuguese people, we discuss the freeness of day care for all families with children up to 3 years old. Whether or not the Portuguese know that they are the Socialist Party and its management partners, plus some parties who say they are right, the only ones and great ones responsible for the lack of jobs in day care and that they are not free for all children! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u70	We all know that, for socialism, the family is one of its main enemies and a target to be slaughtered. Those who accuse us of having no concrete ideas and proposals are those who today lead our proposals to present them as the great saving and original proposals in the nation. It should be recalled to all Portuguese that in January 2020, I repeat, of 2020, the arrival presented a proposal for an amendment to the innovative and relevant State budget. Step to explain: André Ventura, in 2020, presented the free of charge of day care centers, the extension of day care for the entire national territory... [[Congrats from the CH.]] ... and the possibility of sharing the messages for all children who did not find a vacancy on the network with cooperation agreements, as well as the extension of the network itself. This proposal, unfortunately, was rejected by the ideological blindness of the Socialist Party, which counted with the washing of hands that was the abstention of the Left Block, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Liberal Initiative. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since 2020 the daycare centers could be free for all children in Portugal. And those who now say defending the Portuguese should have the courage to apologize to the families...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u71	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u72	... because of the difficulties they imposed upon them and which were unnecessary. [[Congrats from the CH.]] They should also have the political honesty to recognize that once again the arrival was right. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we need courage to say that, with the tax burden charged by Antonio Costa, nothing that is offered by the State is free of charge.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u73	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u74	It is the families that, under the highest tax burden, all pay: the fat government and its offices; the TAP; the New Bank; and even the press advisors, according to Fernando Medina, in what most seems to be a form of compensation for favors or debts of gratitude. It's a shame! It is this government, by the voice of the Minister for Social Security, who says that the measure will generously cover 46 000 children. But, Mr. Eurico Brilliant Days, and the other thousands of children? Will your bench continue, like the ostrich, putting its head in the sand? Oh, my God! Will the Socialist Party continue to contribute to the statistics that, in every 10 poor children, 7 children will continue without access to day care? Oh, my God! We know that to the left there are first and second children.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u75	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u76	It is enough to condemn thousands of children to poverty. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Yesterday, the Committee was informed that the Creches and Small Establishments Association continues to await a response from the Secretary of State for Inclusion to the proposals submitted to the Government. Social security launches, with pump and circumstance, a measure of support for families and the result is chaos. Those who do not get a job in the social sector—and there are many thousands of children—are completely on spiders. The various organisms, with their links, their platforms, their complications, do not articulate themselves and the families do not find the answers. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The lead of our draft resolution, to happen, will be the demonstration of the political hypocrisy of the PS, but above all it will be the discredit of the parties who, for the second time, reject a proposal that has copied to the Arrival, as has happened with other projects. Families know they can count on it. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u77	For an intervention, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are discussing a proposal which many have even called « impossible proposal ». It was a proposal that the CFP put into its 2019 programme and that, it is good to say, it was not in the PS programme. An impossible proposal, such as the proposal of school textbooks, which many also considered impossible, but which allowed all children today to reach 12. every year, they have free school textbooks.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u79	Some! My kids don't have!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u80	Well we could have gone further, not the PS resistance, but also the PSD. In particular, with regard to the proposal for the free of charge of day care centres, the CFP has in fact always placed the universality of the right to free of charge of day care centres so that all children could have access to day care free of charge. The PS has resisted, created obstacles, created difficulties, starting with conditions of income, i.e. only for the lowest steps, then came the age factor and today there is a question, which is one child, for example, Maria Alice, who was born on August 16, 2021 and 14 months ago on October 16, being in a room with other colleagues, with the same educator, and unable to have access to the free of charge of the school, gathering the conditions for this purpose. These are the obstacles that we have to raise to the PS. We defend freeness for all children, because it is in freeness that is the solution for all children. But the projects that come here today, particularly right-wing projects, are not to guarantee freeness for all children, are for enlargement to the private sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u81	And what's the problem? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u82	Let the families choose!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u83	And the PS also resisted what everyone here has already identified: there is a lack of a public network of day care centers and it is in relation to that lack that we must make the way. If we all identify that there is a lack of public care, then why don't we make that path, as proposed by the PCP? Oh, my God! It is not with the creation of 30 000 vacancies, as proposed in the enlargement to the private sector, that the problem is solved; it is with the construction, with the creation of 100 000 vacancies up to 2026, as proposed by the CFP. This is where the solution is. [[CH protests.]] And why don't we move on? Because the PS resists, once again, what is not of its nature, which is the freeness of day care. That is why the CFP wants to make it clear: free daycare is crucial for families to decide to have children and is also decisive in the fight against inequality among children, particularly in such a decisive period as access to education, from the very beginning, through the daycare centres. in this sense, it is very important to leave this message to the PS, drunk as they are with your absolute majority: wake up to the problems that our society lives, especially for the problems of children who are faced with parents with low wages, precariously, with irregular schedules, with difficulties in access to housing. All this falls on our children and the PS, drunk with the absolute majority, does not want to reverse this path, of degradation of society and of degradation of the social conditions of our children. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u84	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Mara Lagriminha Coelho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u85	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen: We have discussed seven legislative initiatives on the free of charge of day-care facilities, which the Government has taken and has been in force since September.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u86	Oh, is it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u87	Therefore, our first word is of thanks to the various parliamentary groups that, with these initiatives, join the Socialist Party and contribute to valuing a structured public policy, promoted by the government, to support families and to protect children. The PS defined and implemented the measure of the free of charge of day care centres as a decisive and priority public policy measure for both the country and the fight against child poverty, promoting integration and equal access to opportunities, but also breaking down cycles of poverty. Therefore, we understand that this is a measure that should be seen in a broad context of family support measures and, in particular, families with children, from the Guarantee for Children to the increase of family allowance, the updating of the steps of IRS and the protection of children at risk of extreme poverty. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Together, these measures reflect the government's investment priority in increasing incomes and social policies to protect children. That is why the government did not stand for proclamations and acted! Strengthening this design, since September of this year, free daycare is guaranteed for children born from 1 September 2021 (including), who attend a daycare or love of the solidarity network, which means that the values of the participations that were paid by the families to date are assumed by the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u88	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u89	For children born before 1 September 2021, free of charge shall also apply to 1. o is 2. the income scales of family participation, which already covered 51 000 children,... [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] ... having the families been disbursed from paying, sirs. Members, a total of 29 million euros of family participations. Until 2024, the free daycare facilities will be implemented phased in a phased way, increasing annually another year of daycare covered up to the overallity of children in the social and solidarity network. Thus, it was progressively and responsibly defined as the objective of reaching 100 000 children at the end of the implementation of the measure. That is why we cannot ignore the fact that the various opposition parties are now coming to propose what the government is already doing, and it is doing so not in an imposed manner, but in a coordinated manner.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u90	We proposed - it in 2020!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u91	On the right, we already know what is being proposed, either by the PSD or by the Liberal Initiative, which is to extend already, without negotiation and immediately, to the entire private sector, regardless of whether or not there is a social offer, measure, that would always be dependent on the next year's State Budget. As is known and public, it was announced by the Government, before the discussion of these initiatives, and as a result of the link between the Government and the Association of Creches and Small Establishments of Special Education, the possibility that, by the next year, there should be association agreements to support also the private sector's daycare facilities, in areas where there is a shortage of daycare facilities and they are not satisfied by the social sector. Now, this is a very relevant point that effectively differentiates us from the right. But let's go to the data: in 2021, there were 78 thousand daycare breaks and family daycare units covered by the cooperation system. Still, the objective is to continue to improve the coverage of the social network of day care centres and, for this purpose, we are prioritising investments in day care offers through the PRR and PARES ( Social Equipment Network Enlargement Programme ) in the social network, in the less covered areas. We are also working with the IPSS in converting children's garden rooms into day care rooms. Through the PRR and PARES, contracts have already been signed for interventions in social daycare equipment, with 7200 places to intervene, totalling EUR 64 million. That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that the introduction of the free of charge of day care centres is a measure developed in the context of public institutions and IPSS that cooperate with the Social Security Institute and that takes into account that the social security system is unified, with the participation of IPSSs of recognised public and non-profit interest. Therefore, referring to the initiative of the Left Block, we remember that, either now or in the past, the authorities have collaborated with the IPSS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u92	Sure! But cooperation agreements, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u93	... providing the facilities and, under the management of an IPSS, competing with PROCOOP, which has strengthened the network of cooperation between central State, local and IPSS. More: According to the report The State of the Nation and Public Policy, the gradual introduction of free daycare facilities "in the path of what other countries have done seems to be adjusted, which also enables the effective membership of families and enables the extension of the network, adjusting it to a likely extension of demand". In conclusion, Mr President, if the premise has allowed us to say, in a safe way, that this was and is a structural measure, I would say until structural reform, the conclusions of this debate will allow us to say that the Government is in the right way, in a serious, articulated and responsible way, and with the certainty that, on the basis of our policies, yes, the families are even first, but all the families, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen of arrive. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by CH Member Pedro dos Santos Frazão.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u94	You have two requests for clarification, but you don't have time to answer them. I ask the authors of the requests for clarification if they want to maintain them. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u95	The government is giving up time! Ah, the government's not here!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u96	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u97	in this case, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes of the PSD has the floor to make the request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after you have heard, there is a very simple question to ask. It cannot answer, but of course, it is important that the following should be pointed out: the honourable Member said that the Government had announced that it was negotiating with small-scale schools'daycare associations the entry into force of the free daycare centres in 2023. Yeah, I'm supposed to tell you, first of all, it's a measure that's gonna be late.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u99	I'm late, but it's coming! With PSD, never!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u100	...and then we don't know if he's coming. It is, Madam President, what we know is that these negotiations are closed and the government is not responding to these associations. Therefore, let us hope that families will actually be first and that you will turn from words to actions. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u101	For a request for clarification, Mr José Moura Soeiro, of the Left Block, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u102	Mr President, Mrs Mara Lagriminha, for historical reasons, which I cannot develop, and by an ideological choice, the Socialist Party has, over the past four decades, defended a self-inhibition of the State in the direct provision of social responses, particularly in the area of childhood. The Minister of Labour, for example, believes that social action is a sphere reserved for IPSS. Why? Why can an authority not have a social security cooperation agreement to develop a social response, for example, a day? Oh, my God! Why should a group of schools, if they think they can have this offer, not be able to make a cooperation agreement to develop that answer? Oh, my God! Why can't there be a cooperation agreement for social responses with the public sector? Oh, my God! Why can there be only cooperation agreements with the non-profit private sector or now with the lucrative private sector? Oh, my God! [[Protests by CH Member Pedro dos Santos Frazão.]] But when you think about the extension of day care centres or other social responses, why can there never be a cooperation agreement with the public sector? Oh, my God! Why does this monopoly exist? It's with this monopoly that the left block bill wants to finish. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u103	For the closing of the debate on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Nuno Carvalho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Member of the Socialist Party, you are indeed impressive with regard to your memory... [[PS protests.]] ...and your ability to debit numbers that do not correspond to reality. Today, you are discussing a proposal here that, when a negotiation takes place, the way you start it with day-careers is very simple: what is ours, and the children who are on day-careers and those vacancies, let us discuss them and negotiate them. In other words, your negotiation is like this: what is from the government ; what is from the others is to negotiate, and « let's see how much we're going to take them away». Private day care centers now have children whose parents are not rich. Did you know, Mrs. Member? Oh, my God! Private day care centers, many of them, are in areas in the country where parents have no other option. Did you know, Mrs. Member? Oh, my God! And where is the solution now for the government? It is not, except in this proposal of the Social Democratic Party. This question of the Socialist Party leaves us completely open-minded, because you have announced a universality of day care centres, have been reducing and shortening the measure, and they are always pushing towards the future. The honourable Member has not been able to say how many vacancies for children are now assured, in the negotiations that are under way, she has only been able to say that there is a law that could guarantee this and that should not be applied now. So what we can understand from the Socialist Party is something very simple: it was an election promise that failed. You have used this issue of day care as an election promise. Moreover, this government has a parallel with the Government of Eng.o José Socrates. I even say more: this is an ideological issue. And I will remember here Karl Marx, who is very simple when he speaks of the past: the government of José Socrates is a tragedy; your government is a farce. Mrs. Member, do you want to make ideological options? You are looking for this Marxist ideological option, because, indeed, what we see here is that you have launched a proposal which is not currently being implemented, you have made an election promise and have failed. The honourable Member is not able to launch anything concrete without being against a law that could respond to children who are in private education and in low-density areas. at this moment, you turned your back on entrepreneurs who, with their private initiative, launched day care centers and gave an answer that could deal with the true universality of day care centers. You have only one position here, which is to be in a farce. Your Government and this promise, Mrs Deputies, are a farce, very much the same as what we have seen in the past and, unfortunately, very much the same as what we are going to see in the future. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u105	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the second item on our agenda. We move on to the third point, which is that of the general appraisal of Bill No. 263 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Amend the Penal Code by aggravating the penalties applicable to crimes of rape and sexual abuse of children and introducing the possibility of the application of an accessory penalty of chemical castration, in case of recurrence. To present the bill, Mr. André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, when we wake up, we had this news in one of our main newspapers. The speaker showed the Express newspaper. I would like the whole country to see what we read today in the morning: “Only one third of those convicted of imprisonment” when it comes to sexual abuse of minors. A third! One third of those who attack our children, those who attack the minors, will stop in jail; the other two thirds are in the middle of us, the other two thirds live beside us and continue unpunished living next to us. Mr. President, this is not our ideal project. Our ideal project was plunged by its predecessor and was never allowed, even, to be discussed in this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u107	And very well!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u108	in an unprecedented act of censorship, Parliament prevented the discussion of a project, democratically and freely. The project that we present today brings changes, causes changes, but it is not the project that we would like to present to this House. The project that a democracy should discuss today should go in order to determine whether our pedophiles and rapists...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u109	Jesus Christ? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u110	... may or may not be condemned to be applied to them the penalty of chemical castration, and they do not want to have any chemical castration penalty.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u111	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u112	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u113	But this was the possible project in this possible democracy, in this possible parliamentary framework, in this presidency of the Assembly of the Republic possible and in this possible legal framework. Therefore, it is in this 'possible' that we must act. Every day we agree with more news of sexual abuse in the various regions of the country, in the various economic and social institutions, in the Church and outside it and in all institutions that mark the overallity of the Portuguese social space. In 2021, the crime of rape increased 21% and what we tell our women is « reintegration », « hope, one day they will reintegrate. Do not keep on seeking. ” Pedophilia today represents 40% of total sexual crime. In 2021, according to the data we have, 40% of all sexual crime is related to sexual abuse of minors. Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to do something! We can discuss the rest of our lives, but I hope that the fight against pedophilia in Portugal will not be like the new airport in Lisbon, and we will discuss, for 50 years, whether there is something or something, without doing anything at all. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I would like, Mr. President, to see you. Members would like to see what I have here today too:... The speaker displayed a copy of the news. ... two thirds of the convicted never—never! — enter prison in Portugal and are not subject to any kind of treatment, but almost 40 % of them return when it comes to sexual crime. And then I ask: what do we do against this? We can close our eyes and say "Alas, what barbarians, those of the Arrival! », but that's what people out there want, they want justice to work for those who have never worked. [[Congrats from the CH.]] That is why our proposal is clear. There are studies that say this: in the case of applied chemical castration, the recurrence is low from 75 % to 2 %, I repeat, from 75 % to 2 %. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a possible path: we risk and we can win or fail; we remain still and we will fail our women and our children. [[Ch's applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u114	Today, you've had lunch earlier!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u115	For an intervention, Mrs Inês Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is with great perplexity that we have witnessed, once again, on an issue as important as that of sexual crimes, namely the crime of rape and sexual abuse of minors — the most serious sexual crimes and with so many important issues to be discussed — to discuss a topic such as chemical castration, which has both absurd and unconstitutional issues. We could and should be talking about the consecration of sexual crimes as a public crime; how to contribute to a reduction in the true black figures associated with these crimes; how to extend the limitation deadlines;...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u117	But is it the prescription that prevents recurrence? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u118	... the fact that the majority of those convicted of these crimes fail to comply with effective imprisonment; the prevention and fight against violence, including gender issues, which are transversal to these crimes; or even the recent scandals of sexual abuse within the Church. [[CH protests.]] But no, we're talking about chemical castration, a measure that, as you well know, is unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u119	But why is it unconstitutional? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u120	In fact, what the proponents want is not to bring real measures to combat and prevent these types of crimes, is to do the political show-off that we have been accustomed to. What they want is to show a supposed strong pulse, which in absolutely nothing solves the problem or so-not prevents it,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u121	Resolve yourself with kisses!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u122	...making a board of fundamental principles such as human dignity. [[CH protests.]] We live in a rule of law, ladies and gentlemen. Members, and in a rule of law there is no place for life imprisonments, castrations or other such ideas. We're in the 21st century. When the Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if you're worthy of arriving here, you'll be very welcome! [[P.S. and L.'s applause.]] [[CH protests and PAN counter-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u123	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for silence. For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz, from the IL, and I ask everyone to listen to it with attention and respect.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Sexual crime and, in particular, sexual abuse of minors are themes of the greatest seriousness that contrasts with the lack of seriousness with which the Arrival presents this bill. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u125	First, the Arrival submitted an unquestionably unconstitutional bill, so much that it was rejected and returned for correction. This project provided for compulsory chemical castration, similar to what they had proposed in the previous legislation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u126	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u127	The project we are discussing today would, supposedly, be corrected and eliminate the hypothesis of compulsory chemical castration. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, of the two, one: or it was a completely tangled correction, which is already typical of the Arrival, or what they really want is to pass, in a subtle way, compulsory chemical castration.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u128	You have to read the project!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u129	Only those who do not know the nature of the Arrival— whose populism also consists in creating confusion around such sensitive themes as child sexual abuse—is that they can believe that they have been misled to correct this project. [[CH protests.]] The application of chemical castration provides for the fulfilment of three alternative criteria. One of the criteria is the agreement of the defendant. It is clear that it is not in all cases that the defendant's agreement is required for the application of chemical castration, i.e. the Members. Members accept and admit compulsory chemical castration. [[CH protests.]] For the Liberal Initiative, penalties that act on someone's physical integrity, without their informed consent, are inhuman and, consequently, unacceptable! [[Applause from IL, PS, PAN and L.]] [[CH's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u130	Mrs. Member, I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u131	We wonder if any notion of dignity guides this legislative impulse. [[CH protests.]] Don't! Until he or she acknowledges that the effectiveness of these measures is limited and fallible, even during the time of his or her administration. Efficacy that, even more so, in the words of the Arrival, is non-existent once the drug is stopped. You don't understand! If, in the beginning, this penalty will only be applied to the prison sentence, what is its usefulness? What's the danger? Is the person who is already under arrest, in a guarded environment, going to continue committing crimes? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u132	It's not working!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u133	According to the data of the Ministry of Justice, which today was the title of a newspaper, that only 36% of those convicted of sexual abuse of minors are serving an effective prison sentence, almost two thirds of those convicted would be outside the scope of this proposal, which would still be disproportionate accessory in all aspects, from the outset, because clearly it does not prevent recurrence. And if it does not prevent recurrence, it does not contribute to social peace either! It is thus shown that the arrival does not, in fact, have any concern about social peace. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u134	We've got women! It's the women who care about us!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u135	If the arrival was effectively concerned about preventing and combating these crimes, he had looked at the data, as the Liberal Initiative did. Do you know what the available data tells us? Only last year, about 53% of cases of sexual abuse of children occurred in the family context. Mrs. Members, if they really wanted to fight these crimes, they didn't try to ban sexual education in schools,... [[Applause from IL, PS, PAN and L.]] [[CH protests.]] ... a means for many children and young people to learn what is not acceptable in relation to their own body and also a means to be able to denounce the crimes they are victims of. [[CH protests.]] Do not close children in their families and families about themselves, accept the school as a space for children to be informed and to know that they will be heard. It would be tremendously more important to ensure that there is a speedy and effective justice, effective protection of victims and, in addition to the penalty, a psychotherapeutic and behavioral follow-up of the aggressors. [[CH protests.]] The dignity of the human person is an essential value of liberal democracy. He knows it, but he chooses to ignore it; the Liberal Initiative never chooses to ignore it. [[IL, standing, PS, BE, PAN and L applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u136	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I am renewing the request for silence while the speakers speak, and now I too. I now give the floor to Mrs Joana Mortágua of the Left Block for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u137	It's going to be the same as before!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u138	Listen! Listen! They may learn something! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u139	Mrs. Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, you have to listen. I'm asking for silence! Mrs. Joana Mortagua, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u140	Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, Augusto Santos Silva, I thank and dedicate these first words to you, which could only be misunderstood. Mr President certainly does not ignore that, after the verbal confrontations he has chosen here to assume with the extreme right, in defense of constitutional principles, there was an expectation regarding his attitude towards this and other projects that offend them. In the recent past, his predecessor Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues adopted another position...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u141	Nice choice!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u142	...and, so far, the Assembly of the Republic has not been led to discuss the introduction of unconstitutional penalties, such as chemical castration, in its legal regime. Unconstitutional penalties! This statement does not even have room for contradiction. In addition to numerous constitutionalists and judicial entities, the Supreme Council of the Magistrate also stated, in an earlier opinion on this bill, that it is materially unconstitutional, insofar as "it violates the fundamental right to the dignity of the human person, to the physical and psychic integrity of the person, resulting in inhuman and cruel treatment". I will not enter deep into the debate about the lack of scientific and empirical evidence of the efficacy of chemical castration in combating sexual abuse and, in particular, sexual abuse of minors. Nor will I mention the studies that say that, on the contrary, chemical castration can have other effects ranging from uselessness to perverse effects, such as the worsening of abusive behavior.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u143	But reduce the recurrence!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u144	I will not even try to establish a dialogue on genuine measures to prevent and combat sexual abuse, which are recommended by international organizations, which focus on children and victims. The measures that promote the complaint and blow up the climate of impunity in which the majority of the aggressors live in a society that normalized the sexual abuse of minors in a country where only one third of the abusers are arrested, but this is only the visible part of a much larger reality not reported and undetected. I am not going, because whoever here presents a strict project does it by diverting the view from the reality of sexual abuse in Portugal, namely the biggest scandal of abuse on minors, which are the monstrosities perpetrated by members of the Catholic Church over dozens of years.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u145	But I've already talked about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u146	Chemical castration is also for them!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u147	A Church whose representatives are still entitled to justify themselves with the phrase: «we cannot judge the past with today's criteria», as if the sexual abuse of children had never been condemned; a Church which, even in the face of the evidence of crimes, enjoys the deference of the President of the Republic, to such an extent that it felt obliged to explain itself to the recipient, in the face of the complaints that he was obliged to make. Don't! It is obvious that this debate is not about ways of combating heinous crime of rape and sexual abuse of minors, nor is it about their penalties or deadlines for prescription. That could have been the debate today, but that is not what I wanted. The arrival wanted a controversy about the Constitution that had us, too, diverted the view of reality, the condemnation of sexual abusers of minors and the fight against impunity. The arrival preferred to present an unconstitutional proposal, which knows that it cannot be approved, to enter the serious debate that protects victims of sexual abuse. Don't! We do not accept chemical castration, as we will not accept anything that follows it, when the principle of human dignity and the prohibition of cruel penalties is annihilated. We will not cut off the hands of those who steal, whether it is bread, we will not pass the death penalty, nor will we impose physical punishment on women for behavior that is indecent. [[Congratulations from BE, PS, PAN and L.]] I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that the arrival used the fight against sexual abuse as a weapon of shooting, mere biased propaganda. It has transformed a necessary debate into an impossible debate, a fraud that no one can follow and therefore must apologize. [[Congratulations from BE, PS, and L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u148	Learn! [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u149	For an intervention, as soon as conditions exist, Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are discussing an initiative that violates constitutional principles, which is not admissible in our legal order or in an evolved society, and we know it! The opinions that have come to us contest - in addition to being ostensibly violator of international legislation that prevents these practices - and the Arrival knows - it is! — such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the European Convention on Human Rights or the Council of Europe resolution of 21 May 2010, and all this is known. We know where this project began, how it was evolving and where it wants to arrive, in order to speak at all costs of chemical castration. It is appropriate to say: "Take everything from us, but do not take the chemical castration from us." The system that we have come to, from a criminal point of view, which has taken steps, such as the abolition of degrading penalties for 200 years— still now we have commemorated it— was a path made as a society, an evolution that has to do with various ideas, but which we can synthesize on one side: on the one hand, the State has as its main objective the general and special prevention and that a logic of "eye by eye, tooth by tooth" degrades the common values,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u151	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u152	But that's not what you're here for!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u153	You have to read the project!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u154	...makes us all equal to those we want to re-socialize. No one has the right to take life from another, so neither can the state! [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u155	Is it in euthanasia? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u156	But this is a basic idea, there is also another one, and I wanted to focus on here, because, despite the "heavy hand" style, "thalian law", power even to be mediatically desirable, falsely soothing, at first, a criminal right focused on punishment, on the retaliation of society, is absolutely ineffective, and this is also known. [[PCP, PS, BE and L applause.]] [[CH protests.]] It is because, together with criminal law, it has also evolved scientific knowledge and knowledge, science, tells us that it is an illusion that complex and serious problems are solved by inclusion in a role, in this case in the Penal Code, heavier or more cruel penalties, in fact... It is a deception in which some ride, but they know it is a trick. Crime, different forms of crime—and now I speak in general—are the result of deviant behaviors and depend on numerous factors and must have an effective response. But it is interesting to ask here the following question: if what is effectively known, what is demonstrated by who is studying, who works with paedophiles and child abusers, is that the effective approach does not pass through hormonal treatments;...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u157	But who said that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u158	... if it is known that, in order to end the recurrence, other strategies are needed, why does arrive present a project that only focuses on the approach that is known to be less effective? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u159	Exactly! [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u160	In the case of chemical castration, it may only be unknown to the problem, or populism. The individual's sexual impulse is not the issue. We know that there are other dynamics and that it is not because of not having physical manifestation that the aggressor ceases to practice violence.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u161	And what are they? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u162	The medicines used do not eliminate these impulses. People must be treated effectively to combat this problem. Chemical castration is not treatment! A number of arguments are used here, such as those in other countries. And in these countries, there is no pedophilia? Oh, my God! No sexual abuse? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u163	There's less recurrence!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u164	In Colombia, in the United States, is there respect for sexual and reproductive rights in general and, in particular, for children? Oh, my God! [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u165	What about Germany? What about France?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u166	The reality denies what this initiative defends and its principles. In short, this proposal has neither feet nor heads, and its proponents know that, it has no scientific basis...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u167	Not even your intervention!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u168	... not factually justified and therefore proving its effectiveness, it does not have any feasibility from the point of view of legislating—and the arrival knows perfectly that it incurs numerous unconstitutionalities and inconstitutionalities—and, of course, it is a proposal that is in constitutional inconformity, because it implies an offense to physical, body and psychological integrity.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u169	What about the children? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u170	And this is too serious, the victims — children and families — have the right to see the subjects be treated seriously, and that is what is not done here.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u171	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u172	For a true criminal policy that combats these phenomena are not the proposals of the Reach that serve. [[PCP, PS, BE, and PAN applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u173	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I insist on asking for silence. Anyone who believes to have the comfort of reason for trying, with voice, to prevent others from presenting their arguments. I now give the floor to Mr Rui Tavares of the Free. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by thanking Members Inês Sousa Real, Patrícia Gilvaz, Joana Mortágua and Alma Rivera for the crystal clearness with which they spoke, in front of the voice of jokes and, let's say, clearly, of the machismo of those who... [[P.S., PCP and BE applause.]] [[But what machismo?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u175	... — I thank you, but I have only one minute to intervene, and I would like to be able to use — from there, from that rostrum, they say to respect women for, soon afterwards, in a paradox, disrespect them, when they are in the use of the word. Equivalent paradox is to say that they are concerned with children, when, next, in the parliamentary parts, they have the desirability to use the children and daughters of other fellow Members and Members as an argument, something that someone who truly... [[PSP, PCP, BE, and PAN applause.]] [[CH protests.]] ... respect for children would never have to do. Anyway! It's the debate... CH Member Pedro Pinto made a gesture with his hand, simulating a mouth to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u176	Mr Rui Tavares, please give me one minute. Does Mr Pedro Pinto mind to abstain from gestures that are offensive to others? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]] Mr Rui Tavares, please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u177	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u178	Thank you, what? Oh, my God! Hurry up but it's talking!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u179	I conclude by saying that these were the most serious paradoxes of a debate that also began paradoxically, when the proposer, in the first sentence, soon emptied it. For if two thirds of the defendants fail to pay penalty, because the crime prescribes,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u180	Don't prescribe anything! It's suspended penalty, it's not prescription!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u181	... Isn't that where we have to act? Oh, my God! In other words, would the chemical castration not happen the same as the prison sentence, i.e., would it never be applied? Oh, my God! Perhaps, he should meditate on the supposed definitive argument he then presented when he went to the rostrum. [[PSP, PCP, BE, and PAN applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u182	Read at least read!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u183	For an intervention, Mrs Emília Cerqueira, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to this initiative of the coming — which, in fact, corresponds to a third attempt to be discussed by this House —...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u185	But this one's different!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u186	... the PSD, after the lack of a decision by the President of the House of the Republic - who did not reject it in its entirety, allowed it to be corrected - although with many doubts as to its constitutionality, understood that it should in fact be corrected and discussed. This, because of a question of consistency—as we have allowed the issue of the courts to be discussed for domestic violence, proposed by the Block of the Left, which was notoriously unconstitutional—and also because it is an opportunity to discuss and not allow these soundbits to pass, constantly, from the «we will do justice», with an institute of cruelty, such as that of chemical castration. [[CH protests.]] The PSD believes it is important that this debate should be brought to light and that our role as humanists is also discussed, as a party that places the dignity of the person at the heart of concerns and policies. [[PSD applause.]] This dignity is certainly not the case because we are in agreement and we are complicit in proposals aimed at cruel, degrading and inhumane penalties, as is the case with chemical castration, which is being discussed here today. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important for this idea to be crystal clear and clear, also for the Portuguese: we are here before several « false truths», with the contradiction that this expression seems to have, because the arrive «sell them» as truths, when they are not. It is important that we demystify some concepts and soundbits that we hear constantly, such as that of which « we are going to do justice», that « this is how justice is done» and that « no one wants justice», because what is proposed, in addition to increasing penalties, does not solve the problem of pedophilia, which is a very serious problem. We all have to be an essential part in this fight against pedophilia, sexual abuse against minors, and the PSD will always be with proposals aimed at this fight. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u187	That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u188	But this does not go through a narrowing view of what sexual abuse is, as you well say, an opinion of the Supreme Council of the Magistracy. And that is what this is about, because the arrival makes the connection to a simple lack of erection, which may not prevent a certain type of sexual aggressor from committing other forms of abuse, especially through objects, typical behaviors, also currently provided for in the Criminal Code. What happens is that the arrival has an absolutely reduced vision, reminding us of the Penal Code which, before 1982, provided that there was only violation in the case of vaginal penetration, everything else was not. In practice, this is what you are telling us today. Oh, my God, so far from reality! Just look at the cases with which André Ventura here has been waving us,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u189	André Ventura? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u190	... during your intervention, which had to do with so many other things that you don't. [[CH protests.]] But this is not in the project, which does not intend to solve the problem, but rather to make human policies, which is unacceptable in a rule of law, in a country which has signed the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. That is why the PSD will never agree and does not agree with what they propose to us, because, apart from contradictions, it does not even work.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u191	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u192	It is proven that it is not effective, the only thing it does is inhibit sexual desire — temporarily and while the sexual aggressor is subject to these treatments — to reduce testosterone and thus the capacity of an erection. That's what we're talking about! With this initiative, there is absolutely no solution to any of the problems that need to be solved. In fact, a very serious policy is needed to ensure that there is serious prevention, serious reintegration and that, in the event of the recurrence of the paraphiles we are talking about, there is therapy and treatment, so that, by always safeguarding human dignity, we can deal with this scourge of sexual abuse to minors. For this, count on the PSD, for inhuman norms and proposals, never! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u193	Madam Member, the Bureau shall record an application for clarification. Mr André Ventura has the floor to make it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u194	Mr President, Mrs Emília Cerqueira, said that "the PSD will always be on the side of human dignity but with great struggle against sexual crimes". So tell me there: what is the solution presented by the PSD? It is that 46 years have passed since you are here and have never fought against the sexual abuse of minors. [[It's a lie!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u195	So tell me a measure today that the PSD proposes to reduce the recurrence of sexual abuse. Tell me one! Tell me one! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u196	And do not come with the prescription, which corresponds to 17 % of the cases. Let's go where it matters! The second question has to do with the following: the honourable Member says it is a barbarity, which are underdeveloped countries that have this! I will just tell you — Mrs Deputies, perhaps you do not know — some of the 'underdeveloped and barbaric' countries that have this: France, Finland, Norway and the United Kingdom. What a barbery, my God! We can't even imagine! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u197	And Russia! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u198	In reply, Mrs Emília Cerqueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u199	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for the question. Of course, it made us one more of those numbers we've been used to, but I would also like you to tell me if these countries have managed to solve the problem of sexual abuse, of pedophilia. You didn't get it, did you, Mr? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u200	But they're not barbarians!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u201	It is not with demagogy that problems are solved. The PSD believes in reintegration, means for effective reintegration, and also in clarification, education and always, always, in prevention, with the dignity of the human person.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u202	What is the PSD measure? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u203	As for entering this demagogy game, that, I won't! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u204	They have no action! Zero PSD measures!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u205	For an intervention, Mrs Cláudia Santos, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u206	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the past legislature we rejected two projects of the Arrival on chemical castration, because chemical castration is a corporal penalty and corporal penalties are prohibited in Portugal since our first Constitution, the Constitution of 1822. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] Now, the arrival brings us another project on chemical castration, in a version that is presented as smooth as if it were — a sort of light arrive — that is, it would be a chemical castration for recurrences and only with its agreement. But what is in the project is that there may also be castration of people who are not recurrences. And the norm, as it is constructed, allows the interpretation that there is no need for agreement if there is a recurrence or special perversion. I therefore agree with everything the Liberal Initiative has said in this regard.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u207	But is it proposed? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u208	Let us suppose—and let us assume, because today, we do not want to escape any question—that the dangerous ambiguity of the project is involuntary and that the agreement of the defendant is always required. And, in that case, the question would be: does a chemical castration penalty cease to be unconstitutional if the defendant agrees with it? The answer is a non-rount.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u209	Was it euthanasia? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u210	Let's imagine Antonio assaults people, armed with knives. You seriously hurt two victims. Now, in the trial, Antonio asks him to use his right hand fingers to stop being able to grab knives. He is afraid to be sentenced to many years in prison and prefers to use his hand. Are we going to accept some kind of chemical amputation of the fingers? Is the atrophy of hands admissible if the defendant asks for it?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u211	That comparison is fantastic! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u212	In the Norwegian copy, for example, it was understood that cutting fingers was an acceptable penalty, but in 1815, it disappeared from the Norwegian Penal Code and not with Anders Breivik again admitted it. Or should the court have been able to apply to him, Breivik, a postmodern lobotomy, which would eliminate racist ideas of extreme right, which led him to kill dozens of teenagers in a youth camp of the Labour Party? Oh, my God! We don't think so. [[PSP, PCP, BE, PAN and L applause.]] But let's go back to the project. What arrives is not a treatment, it is a pity, it is not even a treatment decided during the execution of the penalty, as is the case with programmes that already exist, for example, in France. This castration is a pity. The treatments are proposed by doctors after a diagnosis of disease. The penalties are applied by a court after considering the defendant responsible for a crime. At the end of a criminal trial, conviction in a long prison sentence may be involved. To think that, in this process, there may be an agreement free of charge for chemical castration is not to perceive, or to realize that one does not perceive, the nature of the criminal process itself. Today, we should be discussing other things, different from the chemical castration that the Chega itself recognises, and I will quote, «that is not an infallible method». In the last 10 years, in Portugal, 531 convicted of sexual crimes attended, in prison context, programs of rehabilitation of high cognitive-behavioral intensity, and the follow-up study, with a sample of 110 former inmates, concluded that only two of these former inmates were convicted of a sexual crime. In other words, there was a recurrence of 1, 8 %. What we should be discussing, seriously, was the forms of prevention of sexual crime, setting it in its structural causes. Most victims are children and women, most aggressors are men who exercise authority over them, at school, at work, in the church, in the sports complex. Last Friday, in this plenary, we heard a Member of the European Parliament say the following: « Respect, authority and order: the solution to the problems of Portugal as a whole. Too many children and too many women in our country were victims of this representation of authority and respect. Our way is different. [[PS, PCP, BE, and L applause.]] [[CH Member Protests Bruno Nunes.]] It is strange, very strange, that a nationalist party has such contempt for the history of criminal justice in our country, which we are very proud of, too, of its effectiveness in defending society.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u213	And the criminals are proud too!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u214	They give examples from other countries, where there would already be chemical castration: Poland or South Korea. The first example Mr. André Ventura has now given was that of France, but it is not true.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u215	It's true, it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u216	When we open the website of the French administration itself, your official website is there, and I will quote: "Chemical castration is not a sentence pronounced by a judge, but a medical treatment decided by a doctor. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u217	But that's not what you guys want!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u218	In France, there is no chemical castration as a penalty. The French example is not suitable for arriving. [[P.S., BE, and L.]] [[CH protests.]] I conclude by saying that this debate on chemical castration as a penalty is not our debate. This is the debate of the negationists of the structural causes of these crimes. Negationists who refuse to change, whatever it is, up and up and who therefore need to show work, casting down. [[CH protests.]] Our path is another, it is the path of combating vulnerability, of reaffirming human rights, of real concern to the victims, and from that path we will not deviate one step. [[PS, PCP, BE, and L applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u219	It's been a while!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u220	To close the debate, Mr Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u221	It's not time for them to leave yet! Open... [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u222	I ask silence to hear the speaker.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u223	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate we have had here is embarrassing and disqualifying. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u224	It shames the possibility of so many women in this House, in the face of the most horrendous crimes, they prefer to find arguments to be with the aggressors and not with the victims. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It shames and disqualifies a country in which the agreement serves euthanasia, but does not serve for chemical castration. It is a country with grace, who says you can die, but in which you cannot have certain sanctions or treatments.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u225	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u226	It is a country with grace, Mrs. Member, in which one can say that there is no problem in relation to death, but as to preventing a rapist or a pedophile from acting again—alas, my God! — we have to deal with and have an agreement with him. What a shame, Mrs. Deputy! What a shame, to disqualify her so much in this matter. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I told the honourable Member that we only have two victims. But there are two, Mrs. Member, there are two victims who, perhaps, are mothers, are daughters, are grandchildren, they are anything that we all care about. They are victims of the most heinous crime anyone can commit, and to which we today have decided to turn our backs. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] Yes, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, our proposal and our intention are clear, we want chemical castration to be a pity. And I want to say it, face to face, to the Portuguese, because having to choose between any criminal history and that the pedophiles and rapists do not act again, I will always choose the last of these cases and these situations. [[Congrats from the CH.]] History, in this case, is worth the garbage we walk, because it is for the victims who look at us and ask for justice that we have to do. It is not the story that leads us, it is the men and women of our time who lead us, and it is for those who we have a duty to legislate today. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] Mr President, much has been said about an evolved society, but hear the CFP say that in the most evolved societies these penalties are cruel and degrading—I will not give the example of North Korea, which is a confronerant to the CFP! — leads me to say that even in your beloved Russia there is chemical castration. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] Mrs. PSD Members, we have chemical castration in Israel, Estonia, Austria, Denmark, Germany, the United Kingdom, Norway, Finland. Tell the Portuguese that they are barbarians, tell them there that we are much better, although in human development rates we will be far below these countries. [[Protests by PS members Eurico Brilliant Dias and Porfírio Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u227	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u228	Tell them there! Use your words to tell a raped woman or an abused child that we are being too cruel to the aggressor. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] Try to explain this, eyes in your eyes, and you will see why I started this debate by saying that we are only ashamed, as Parliament, of what we have done here today. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. President and Mr. Members : Soon at night, when you see what happened in this House, the Portuguese will know the obvious. They will know that, once again, there is only one party that actually wants justice in Portugal. They will know that there is only one party that is next to the victims and those who suffer. They will know that everyone else prefer notes from history to the heart and body of the victims and the Portuguese. They will know that there are those who fight for justice and those who try to cover up all those who commit these crimes. Mr President, someone said in this House that we should apologize for bringing the chemical castration of paedophiles to debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u229	It was me!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u230	We will always leave this challenge, which will remain for the Portuguese to evaluate: whoever has to apologize is Parliament, for failing the victims of rape and sexual abuse. [[Ch's applause, stand up.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u231	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very good day to all and to all. We turn to agenda item 4, which consists of the discussion of draft resolution No 164 / XV / 1. a ( PS ), together with Bill 61 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), 293 / XV / 1. a ( L), 295 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) and 304 / XV / 1. a ( BE), in general, and still with the Resolution Project No. 228 / XV / 1. a ( CH). To present the Resolution Project No 164 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — It recommends that the Government be given greater scrutiny of the contracts to be concluded, Mr Francisco Dinis has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u232	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: while promoting policies for wage increases and for creating and valuing young jobs — resulting in the lowest number of young unemployment in the last 20 years — it is crucial to ensure that this generation, the most qualified of all, also has greater job stability. This stability needs special attention, in order to reduce temporary recruitment, which, as we know, has a greater incidence on the younger age groups. It's not something new and it hasn't been the focus of our attention. In this context, let us recall the agreement reached in the social consultation in 2018, which resulted in the amendments to the Labour Code, with the reduction of the maximum duration of the fixed-term contracts, with the impossibility of the total duration of renewals exceeding that of the initial period of the contract, or also with the prohibition of the late-term hiring of workers seeking the first job. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Still, we cannot forget the impact created by the pandemic crisis which, causing difficulties in general, has affected particularly young people with precarious links. As such, we must continue to focus our efforts on promoting a decent labour market, strengthening and deepening our commitments. It must be a priority to ensure the legal compliance of the contract concerned and to support it so that precarious situations can be resolved. By continuing to create jobs, especially quality employment, by working as the main pillar of social balance, by working stability and by a quality of life that contrasts with the precariousness felt by our young people, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group presents, by the voice of Socialist Youth, this draft resolution, recommending to the Government that the Act (Working Conditions Authority) increase the monitoring actions of the term contracts, in particular those relating to young workers, in order to ensure their legality in accordance with the amendments to the Labour Code, mentioned above. In other words, greater monitoring of the compliance with standards of reconciliation between professional activity and family and personal life — for example, refers to the cases relating to periods of rest or to the payment of extraordinary hours — as well as the promotion of gender equality and non-discrimination of wages. For the PS, it is important to continue this path of combating precariousness and cement the remarkable advance in the dignity of work in Portugal, ensuring that all Portuguese and Portuguese can enjoy stable, sustainable and valued work. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u233	The Bureau made a request for clarification from Mr Rui Rocha of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group. Let us wait for Mr. Francisco Dinis to arrive at his seat on the bench so he can be careful and take notes. [[Pause.]] Mr Rui Rocha of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u234	Mr President, I have a very simple question to ask you. The honourable Member began his speech by saying that there had been real wage growth and I asked him to explain that real wage growth is this, reporting to the year 2022, where we are, and to the forecasts for 2023. I also naturally asked you not to talk about nominal increases, because we have already had a chance in this Parliament to understand the difference between nominal increases and actual increases. So I would ask you to explain where in the year 2022 and in the forecasts already in place for 2023, taking into account the inflation rates already verified and the expected rates, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u235	In reply, Mr Francis Dinis of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u236	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about labour rights, as much as we try to question the work that has been done, the truth is that it is with the PS that the great head of labour rights I have just mentioned emerges. In fact, it is enough to recall the difference between what was done by the right and what is now being done by the Socialist Party. Let us remind ourselves of the changes that have been made to labour legislation, which have made the precariousness, the facilitation of redundancies and the reduction of compensatory amounts for workers or, quite simply, the cuts in wages. In the opposite sense, growth has been shown to be possible, from improving the conditions of workers and their own appreciation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u237	Since 2015, it is not only in 2022.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u238	Exactly. [[Protests by Mr Rui Rocha.]] As a result of the fight against wage inequalities and the unprecedented creation of employment in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u239	And how much did it increase?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u240	As for young people, we know that we have a government that does not encourage emigration, which views young people as part of the solution and never as part of the problem. [[IL protests.]] Therefore, if there is a party that fights job insecurity, this party is the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u241	You in Socialist Youth must learn to answer the questions!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u242	To submit Bill No. 61 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Combats job precariousness and strengthens the rights of workers ( 10th amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code ), Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u243	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The reality of precariousness, arbitrariness and violation of rights in our country imposes an urgent reaction. Discussing the precariousness of labour relations cannot be limited to mere recommendation, as the Socialist Party does, so that the Labour Conditions Authority will carry out the task of monitoring the serious applications for workers that the PS itself — and, say, also the PSD — approved in 2019. The government knows exactly what is going on — the Socialist Party knows perfectly what is going on — and it does not fight it because it does not want to. It does not combat it and does not make any changes to the law, by revoking the serious rules for workers. It does not combat the reduced effectiveness of the ACT, aggravated by the lack of human and technical means, which neither the reinforcements announced can exceed. What the absence of speedy justice, with high and unjustified judicial costs and obstacles to access to the judicial support of the generality of workers, prevents, in many cases, access to justice and courts itself. What matters is not conversation, what matters is to walk effectively towards a situation of respect and dignity in working relations and recognition of work with rights as a central axis of a policy of economic and social progress. What is needed is to combat the social and economic scourge that has been brought about by thousands and thousands of workers — particularly young people, but that spreads to society as a whole — who cannot continue to be hostage to a predatory model of their work, which imposes on them the delay of their life plans without delay. Therefore, the PCP bill has no recommendations, it has measures. It has serious, concrete and effective measures, identifying the following priority tasks, in the context of amendments to the Labour Code: the recognition of proof of actual existence of work contracts, with the extension of their requirements, thus demarcating the worker to demonstrate the damage to himself and the State, which are otherwise evident; the automatic recognition of rights to his or her seniority, including career recovery, remuneration of holidays and allowances, leaving the employer obliged to deliver the due contributions to social security; the limitation of the situations in which there may be recourse to term contracts; the repeal of the increase of the experimental period to 180 days in the case of workers seeking the first job or long-term unemployed; the revocation of the special short-term contracts; the extension of the period of the prohibition of new admissions through a term or temporary contract, passing on one third of the duration of the contract; the reduction of the number of contract renewals to the right term for the maximum of two penalties; the provision of benefits or establishment of public funds; the provision of benefits and the provision of public funds. This is measures, the rest is conversation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u244	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u245	In short, while respecting its commitment to workers and the people, the CFP presents concrete proposals to combat serious precariousness and to value work and workers. If the Socialist Party, the Government and the other Members are interested in combating precariousness, they will certainly follow the CFP proposals. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u246	To submit Bill No. 293 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Extension of the tasks of the Working Conditions Authority ( amendment to Regulation Decree No 47 / 2012 of 31 July 2012 ), Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u247	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In reality of the work of our country, there is increasingly the use of hooded and false forms of internships to escape the inspection activity of the Working Conditions Authority. In the 2019 work inspection activity report it is said that this practice leads to segmentation of labour and workers' rights, leads to a lack of revenue that social security should be entitled to because of the distortion of the real conditions in which people work and leads to a situation of unfair competition on the part of companies that are willing to use these resources in relation to companies that do not. But we could also add, beyond what this report says, that this practice leads to a deprotection of workers and workers in situations of moral harassment, and even sexual harassment, that later are not prevented or not punished by these false trainees and trainees are not unequivocally covered by the inspection activities of the Act. The bill presented by the Free comes, therefore, to do a very simple thing, which is to give an explicit and unequivocal mandate to ACT to include trainees and trainees in all their activities. It is a matter of justice, it is a matter of care and solidarity for workers and workers in our country and it is a question of prevention in relation to abuses of their rights. We therefore hope that there will be a follow-up to this bill by the other parties represented in this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u248	To submit Bill No. 295 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Increases the guarantees of beneficiaries of unemployment benefits under the rules relating to vocational training by amending Decree-Law No 220 / 2006 of 3 November 2006 to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u249	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This House has already taken a very important, first step in the valorisation of young people at the end of the precarious professional stages, whose process is under way in the field of expertise and we hope that it will be completed as soon as possible. But we need to go further and, therefore, the NAP brings to the debate a proposal that we hope will not go wrong in any ideological prejudice, because the measure presented here must be a cross-cutting concern to all political forces. We are talking about ensuring respect for people who are unemployed, especially for young people seeking first employment. This is a very simple measure, which ensures that vocational training offers made by the IEFP (Instituto do Employo e Educação Professional) are suitable for profile, school qualifications and professional projects, staff of the unemployed. We do so because this is an area in which the social state and, in particular, the IEFP have failed on several lines. There are several cases where newly licensed or teachers in the areas of Law, Economics, History, Marketing or Arts are looking for the IEFP to have an opportunity to enter the labour market and what is offered to them are courses that have nothing to do with their field of studies or with their projects and professional aspirations — areas such as geriatrics, restoration, sawmills or hairdressing and aesthetics, just to give some examples. What they are looking for is an opportunity for work and what they receive is an incomprehensible lack of respect, in which what they are told is that the studies they have continued are of no use and that they have to adapt or give up their dreams. Rejecting these training offers is not even an option for many of the young people, since it will be synonymous with cancelling registration in the employment centre, although they do not have any other support. In the case of unemployed persons with benefit, the refusal will in some situations mean the loss of that allowance, i.e. the loss of a right they acquired because they made the discounts due. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we do not want the refusal, for example, of training in geriatrics by a licensee in Economics to lose the allowance or that the refusal of training in hairdresser by a licensee in Marketing is a cause of annulment of registration in the IEFP. Such situations are unfair and we intend to address this injustice with the initiative that the NAP brings, hoping that they will accompany us.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u250	To submit Bill No. 304 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Change the legal regime applicable to the term of contract by making the twenty-first amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009, Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u251	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party — the Socialist Youth — has scheduled this draft resolution for debate recognizing that there is an increase in job insecurity, that is why the explanatory statement says that 65 % of young people have long-term contracts. In fact, this pattern of precariousness, which has not been transformed and has been aggravated from year to year, as is recognized, happens because of the law; it happens because of the practices of transgression to the law; it happens because precariousness, by disaggregating collective solidarity, by weakening trade union collectives, by making themselves more vulnerable, prevents or hinders the exercise of rights; and it also happens because there is a culture of impunity. There is a culture of impunity because ACT does not act every time it should act and because there are obstacles to access to justice. We have, in fact, a rate of about 20 % of long-term contracts in the entire employed population, which has not changed for decades and which is one of the structural facts of our working reality. The Socialist Party has not changed this pattern and what is proposed here is a recommendation to the Act to do what it already has to do. It is hard to imagine, as much as it takes its head, a more harmless initiative than the one presented by the Socialist Party. However, there would be many things to be said, particularly about youth precariousness. For example, the last amendment to the law that the Socialist Party made, with the votes against the left, extended the experimental period for young people seeking the first job,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u252	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u253	... introducing negative discrimination for young people, because they have the possibility to be framed in the most precarious manners provided for by labour law because they are simply young in search of the first job. Above all, what is the concept of a person looking for the first job? It's a person who has never had an endless contract. I mean, we can have someone who's been looking for the first job all his life. Therefore, this standard that extends the experimental period for young people—which is a kind of parenthesis in the Constitution, because there is no right during the experimental period—is a measure of precaution and discrimination of young people. It would be possible to talk about, for example, the interconnection of ACT data with the Tax Authority to combat precariousness, to assess whenever there is economic dependence and therefore an indication that there is a false green receipt. But the interconnection of data, which was in the Government's bill in October, and which was published in the Bulletin of Labour and Employment, came out of the bill that was now presented in Parliament and which is under discussion. So this wasn't a measure? Oh, my God! It would still be possible to talk about, for example, the turnover rate, which was approved in 2019. For what? The Government and the Socialist Party were saying that it was to penalise companies that resort to forward-term contracts on a rotational basis. It was approved, the government was out of regulation, but it passed three years and there is no turnover rate. Zero! It doesn't exist. The turnover rate has never been regulated. Aren't you talking about it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u254	The Left Block did not agree with the turnover rate!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u255	By the way, I agreed. By chance, we agreed with the turnover rate and what we found regrettable is that, over three years, this had served to make a speech, that nothing had happened and that the Socialist Party and the Socialist Youth did not say anything about it. We can talk about other measures, such as those presented by the Block here, such as limiting the grounds for future contracts. The term contracts should exist only for a peak, seasonality or replacement of a worker who is sick or is on parental leave. They should not contain all the reasons that are in the law today and allow for the generalization of contracts in the long term. Another measure would be to resume the compensations that were cut in the troika period. Now, speaking of precariousness, and I will finish, I would like to know what Socialist Youth and the Socialist Party really think about working on platforms. There is a debate that goes through the country, but also through the Socialist Party, because there was a proposal that provided work contracts with the platforms, i.e., there was a presumption of labour with the platforms. The government, which had submitted this proposal in October, changed it and, giving in to the lobby of multinationals, introduced the intermediary to break down the platforms of making work contracts. The Working Conditions Authority came to Parliament and said that the Government's proposal makes it difficult to recognise employment contracts. They are against and criticized the proposal. Prof. Guilherme Dray — certainly respected at the Socialist Party’s bench — and Prof. Teresa Coelho Moreira, authors and coordinators of the Green Paper on the Future of Work, have come to say that this proposal is not in line with the same. There is a European directive, the rapporteur of which is the Socialist Euro MP Elisabetta Gualmini, which is against the existence of intermediaries and therefore against the precaution proposed by the Government. [[Meanwhile, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u256	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u257	I'm done, Mr. President. on the other hand, we have the platform lobby, right-wing jurists, such as Pedro Lumba, who have already lobbyed in this Parliament, and the Secretary of State for Employment. What does Socialist Youth think? Will you be with the lobby model of the intermediate platforms or will you be with the original model, which was in the Green Paper and in the October proposal, which the Block also defends? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u258	To present the Resolution Project No. 228 / XV / 1. a ( CH ) — In order to strengthen the staff framework of the Working Conditions Authority ( ACT ), Mr Bruno Nunes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u259	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : As for these last questions about what Socialist Youth wants, I mean that neither they know, because they do not know the reality of young people in Portugal, as we saw by the last posts of Socialist Youth itself. [[PS protests.]] Take it easy, but I'd shout! It's not lunch time yet, they yell later to order the bifana. Take it easy! We heard young people from the Socialist Party start their intervention by saying that the Socialist Party promotes wage increases policies. We are at a time when we realize that, in the public service, the increase is 0, 9 %, well below what inflation will be and far below what is the increase in the cost of living. But the youth of the Socialist Party obviously do not realize the difficulty in career progression, as they quickly jump from Socialist Youth to Parliament. They do not realize the difficulty of those who are out there working, years and years, in favor of the state and cannot have a decent career progression. For you, it's actually easy. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Today we have had some interesting interventions and I am also looking forward to seeing what role the Liberal Initiative will have in this draft resolution. The Liberal Initiative today increasingly assumes itself as an individualist and is part of the progressive liberalism of the Left Block. At a certain point, it is so against, but so against society—it is not against the system, it is against society! — which is beginning to be a dangerous ideology in this Parliament, because they want to end with society, as they are proposing. of our part, what we present in the draft resolution has to do with the working conditions in the ACT. Because, to Caesar's wife — and taking advantage of Mr. Carlos César's laughing —... [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u260	It's not me!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u261	It's the father, it's the same! You know, I confuse you all, since your position is always the same! To Caesar's wife — I was saying, using the words of the Minister for Territorial Cohesion — it is not enough, in fact, to be. And you defend the workers in such a way that afterwards the ACT has difficulties in hiring and in the dignity of the workers there. This would be the defense of the workers. It is interesting to see now the defense of the PS, the Communist Party and the Left Block, the management, which for seven years has governed and has its armed arms, which are the CGTP-IN (General Confederation of Portuguese Workers-National Interunion) and the UGT (General Workers Union ) — which represent less than 18 % of the public function, but which are those who are called for social consultation, because you do not respect independent trade unions and want to keep the machine from those two trade unions,... [[Congrats from the CH.]] ... that are, no less, forms of financing of various parties. You do not respect the issue of inflation and think that the public service, with 0, 9 %, will have the problem solved.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u262	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u263	When we defend, in this draft resolution, the improvement of human and material resources, I want to make it clear that we are not talking about BMW. It is not to hire and ask BMW for administrations and directors.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u264	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u265	It is not to do as in the TAP (Portuguese Air Transport) in which the only thing they did was catch a company that is being intervened, and not having any management capacity—which is what you have... [[Protests by PS MP Miguel Matos.]] ...and where it goes to put more young people, like Mr. Member of Socialist Youth. With SIADAP (Integrated Management and Performance Assessment System in Public Administration ), which is something so funny to you, it takes 140 years to reach the top of the career. The speaker posted a printed news. Curiously, and taking in our first intervention today, what you do would not be more than a perpetual prison for the worker. He is stuck to the contracts that you put in career progression, which is a complete fallacy, supported by those who have the workers' « cassette» for 100 years and by others, in addition, who say that «the united people will never be defeated», but who do not respect the people or those who work, despite the « cassette» of the workers. [[Congrats from the CH.]] You know, the precariousness of the population is at the point where the studies say that one fifth of the population is poor. [[PS Francisco Dinis's laughs.]] But you know that you are laughing at 20 years of age that three out of five poor people are working. Therefore, the precariousness, which you have come here to defend, to shout out, that you have resolved, is also in the Socialist Party when you do not solve the situation of PREVPAP ( Programme for the Extraordinary Regularization of Pre-Care Links in Public Administration ), since the time when Mrs Alexandra Leitão said in 2019 that « this is resolved by the end of the year ». It is only that now you have to listen to the honourable Member sitting next to you to understand what we are talking about, because you don't even know what this is, because at that time you were still in high school. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u266	I ask the honourable Member to abstain from considerations which can easily be considered offensive, because that is what determines the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Pedro Pinto is asking for the floor for what effect? [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u267	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u268	Sir, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u269	Mr President, I believe that Mr Bruno Nunes did not offend anyone with what he said,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u270	Don't you? Oh, my
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u271	... but I would like to have seen the same attitude as Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic when Mr. Rui Tavares called the Members of this party and this bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u272	To me!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u273	But the President of the Assembly of the Republic has remained silent, and that cannot be. Do you understand the censorship? Oh, my God! Do you understand why there is a duality of criteria? Here's an example. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr Rui Tavares, everything is allowed. in this bench, nothing can be said, nothing is allowed. Make a script and tell us what Mr. President wants. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u274	They won't shut us up!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u275	Mr. Deputies, as it is easy to understand, one thing is political characterizations, which are free, another is personal offenses.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u276	« Machista», to me, is a personal offense!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u277	The Bureau noted the inclusion of a request for clarification to Mr Bruno Nunes. Mr Rui Rocha, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor to make it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u278	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make one or two comments of a more general nature. We have talked in a number of initiatives about the role of the Working Conditions Authority. We believe that its role is very relevant and very useful, but I believe that it would be to avoid attempts or tendencies to place the Working Conditions Authority as a substitute for what are eminently judicial functions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u279	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u280	This is an alert I would like to make, in general terms. It is an administrative entity and cannot become an entity with powers replacing judicial powers, thereby violating the separation of powers. Then, in particular in the context of a question that has to do with the topic of intervention, I confess that I was a little surprised by this proposal from the Arrival, which proposes more means, more material resources for the ACT. I myself, 15 days ago — perhaps not so much — was in a hearing with the person who now represents the Working Conditions Authority, to whom I asked, personally and directly, if I thought he had all the necessary means to perform his function or not. I was even insisting on how I put the question, and what this woman answered me was basically that she had everything she needed. I insist on asking « but you really don't need anything? to what she answered: “No. We have all the means and all the resources. Do not keep on seeking. ” So, there's someone here who's not clearly seeing the issues. Or we are talking again about PS-induced propaganda, in the sense that there are all means, or we are talking about a, not totally clear, vision of reality on the side of the Arrival, which wants more means when the ACT says it already has them. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u281	To reply, Mr Bruno Nunes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u282	Mr President, Mr President, that was not a good question, but I am going to give you some clarification anyway. The difference between understanding whether the Socialist Party is lying or whether we want to put more means—because it did not realize, in hearing—is simple. You just have to do as we do, get out of the real world, leave Parliament, leave the hearings and committees, go talk to the entities out there and you will clearly realize that there is a shortage of workers and that we are not playing here. In fact, what you are saying is that you heard a representative of the Socialist Party in a hearing, when you know perfectly how the positions are delegated and appointed. So when you come to this question, I continue to be more and more sure that you had a lot, but a lot, reason on the first day you entered this House: your place is there on the other side, and not here on our side. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u283	For an intervention, Mrs Helga Correia, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u284	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We discussed a set of diplomas from the PCP, the Libertad, the PAN, the Block of Left and the Arrival, which were dragged with the draft resolution of the Socialist Party that intends to recommend to its Government greater monitoring of the contracts to be completed. This agenda, in the view of the PSD Parliamentary Group, is another exercise of political demagogy, at a time when Parliament discusses, in the field of expertise, the Dignified Work Agenda. Yes, it is an exercise of political demagogy of the Socialist Party. If not, let us see the facts: on 8 July, we discussed in plenary, in general, the Bill No. 15 / XV / 1. a, scheduled by the Socialist Party, which governs — a proposal to amend labour legislation within the framework of the Dignified Work Agenda ; but on 18, 10 days later, the Socialist Party itself, but this time by its parliamentary group, has introduced a draft resolution aimed at greater supervision of the term contracts, which is currently under discussion. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the most careless could think that this schedule would be normal, but it is not. And it's not why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? Essentially, for two orders of reason. First of all, because the Socialist Party of Parliament recommends to the Government — the government that governs! — that the Act develops actions to monitor future contracts and seeks to ensure greater monitoring of compliance with the standards of conditions between professional activity and family and personal life. The Socialist Party is recommending to a State service, which aims to promote improvements in conditions through legal compliance — the Labour Conditions Authority — to do what it is responsible to do, to carry out the task assigned to it. Moreover, Mr. Members, whom the Socialist Party of Parliament, with this recommendation, intends to, according to the explanatory statement, "that the ACT increase the control actions of final contracts, in particular young workers, by ensuring their legality and supporting young people to get out of a precarious situation". In this regard, it should be noted that it is still curious that the Socialist Party of Parliament, which is sitting here, is concerned about the precariousness created by the Socialist Party that governs — the same Socialist Party that promised to combat precariousness with the Special Regularization Programme of the Precise Links in Public Administration, initiated in 2017. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] Yes, Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias, started in 2017,... [[PSD applause.]] ... and the conclusion of which would be expected by the end of 2018. And it was not the Social Democratic Party that said it, but the Socialist Party that governs it. At the end of 2022, there are still situations to be regulated. Moreover, it is the State itself, led by the Socialist Party of the Government, to place many of these young workers with precarious links in the Public Administration. If not, let us see, Mr Francis Dinis, regarding precariousness—and you did not know how to paste the data! — It should be noted that since September 2015 there are more than 65 000 workers in the future. On 30 June 2022, there were more than 95 000 workers in the Public Administration with the same precarious link, resulting in an increase of more than 32 000 precarious workers since the beginning of socialist governance, with the support of the Socialist Party which is here in Parliament and with the support of the parties on the left.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u285	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u286	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u287	I mean...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u288	Who did PREVPAP? You mustn't be ashamed!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u289	That is to say, Mr President — and I have listened carefully to the Socialist Party — an increase of more than 50 % of the precariousness in public administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u290	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u291	The second order of reason, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is because the scheduling of this discussion, which drags with you a set of bills with profound changes to the Labour Code, is being done outside of what has been the discussion, hurried and stalled, within the framework of the working group of the Dignified Work Agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u292	Stabbed? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u293	Yes, Mr. Deputies. And I say 'cut off' why? Because the Socialist Party of Parliament has to ensure compliance with the deadlines and commitments that the Socialist Party is imposing on it. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we conclude from these agendas that after all you do not want to make these amendments to the Labour Code, because if you wanted to do them truly, you would have to have them presented or would present them in committee.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u294	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u295	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u296	That is why Parliament cannot move forward!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u297	But that's not what you guys are doing! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I also want to say that the PSD does not compact with this exercise of the political demagogy of the Socialist Party, nor does it compact with those who, on the basis of this initiative, try to make a political number themselves. We are also not available nor are we compacted with this agenda of the Socialist Party of the Government, imposed on the Socialist Party of Parliament, in which they want to conclude a legislative process with profound changes to the Labour Code that will impact workers as well as employers. They are subjects that deserve maturation and due weighting. It is not with this kind of exercise of political demagogy that we believe in the image of Parliament and the image of the legislator. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u298	Mr Fernando José has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u299	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : On the initiatives under discussion, I want to start with those presented by the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block. In recent years, the Government has set a set of major priorities in regulating the labour market, with a view to promoting decent work, from the outset, promoting employment and its quality and reducing precariousness. They do not consider the tenderers that the Dignified Work Agenda and the valorisation of young people in the labour market, embodied in the Bill No. 15 / XV / 1. a — which will be discussed on 20 October with proposals from the various parliamentary groups on the subject of strengthening public instruments and policies which have been the subject of the priorities pursued by the Government, with proposals for specific measures in the areas on which the initiatives under consideration are from the outset aimed at combating precariousness with key measures in the field of temporary work. With regard to the Free Initiative, as we know, the task of the ACT is to promote the improvement of working conditions by monitoring compliance with labour standards and monitoring compliance with safety and health at work legislation as set out in Regulation No 47/2012. It is also expressly enshrined in Article 2 ( 3 ). the above-mentioned legal precept that the ACT continues its duties anywhere where the provision of work is found or there is sufficient evidence of this benefit, considering that such provision already includes the supervision of false internship contracts, and that the trainee is considered as a worker, not being excluded from any inspection action promoted by the ACT.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u300	It's better to explain well!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u301	With regard to the proposal from the Arrival, I wanted to say that, for the verification of working conditions, the Government has, in the last year and a half, strengthened the staff framework map of the ACT in 190 inspectors. In 2015, ACT had 307 inspectors and, this year, reached a total of 493 inspectors,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u302	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u303	... the highest ever value that meets, for the first time, the reference required by ILO (International Labour Organisation): 1 inspector for every 10 000 workers. The inspector-general himself has recently confirmed that there is no lack of inspectors, so we do not know what the basis for this proposal is.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u304	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u305	Mr President, I conclude by saying that with regard to the NAP proposal, we consider the proposed amendments to Articles 11. o, 41. o is 49. it is redundant, since this diploma already provides that training must correspond to the profile of the recipient, which is why we cannot follow these initiatives. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u306	To close the debate, Mr. Miguel Matos, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u307	Mr. President, the CFP has signed up.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u308	Had the PCP registered?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u309	Yes, Mr. President, at the last minute.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u310	If Mr. Miguel Matos doesn't mind, we'll sign the PCP at the last minute. In exchange, the PCP promises to use the time it has available and not more than that. Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor then.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u311	Thank you very much for your understanding, Mr President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, some arguments have been made that it is important to clarify and rebate. As regards whether or not it is sufficient for the ACT inspectors, it is sufficient to see that in Lower Alentejo there are four inspectors for that whole territory, with the characteristics known, in particular in the field of agricultural work, with all the phenomena associated with it. Therefore, there is no need to give many more examples about this. On the question posed by Mr Socialist Party, we do not understand what is the problem that the PS has to recognise that, when there is a working relationship, which corresponds to an effective bond, it should be recognised.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u312	It took time!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u313	Why? But, after all, the work of ACT is to defend the worker or is it to defend the employer, the company from having a contract of work and paying the rights to its workers? That is the question. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u314	The inscriptions are like the cherrys, so now Mr Rui Rocha, of the Liberal Initiative, also wants to intervene. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u315	Mr President, as far as the Act is concerned, we have — and this has been confirmed by the PS — a version of the events that are on the ground and then we have the version of those who believe that there is no means. I think that anyone who feels that there is no means has an obligation, which is almost democratic, to present some basis for saying it, that is, on which basis it is based — to say what many are, whether they are cars, whether they are faxes, whether they are phones, whether they are people. It must have some foundation, because not having it is the easiest exercise and also the most populist: it is to throw things over the problem, to throw money, and that we are already, like the PS, a little tired. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u316	Now, yes, Mr Matos has the floor to close the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u317	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Young people are the most qualified generation ever, but also one of the most precarious. Two in three young people born in the 1990s have term contracts, when in the previous generation they were half and at the beginning of the century they were one in three young people. Precautionary is a Portuguese phenomenon, 25 % higher in Portugal than that found among young Europeans, and it is a chaga that reduces our wages by 40 %. That is why the PS — yes, the PS! — it has been determined in the fight against precariousness, particularly with young people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the MP of the PCP Alma Rivera and the MEP of BE José Moura Soeiro.]] While the PSD promoted internships involving young people in unemployment and precariousness, the PS reformed them so that they would result in endless contracts. It was the PS that made PREVPAP, it was the PS that enabled ACT to prevent illegal layoffs and, while the right one romanticizes labor flexibility, that nothing more than romanticize precariousness, the PS did not hesitate to reduce from three to two years the maximum time in term contracts and to include the stages in experimental periods, and much more.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u318	By the way, that was us!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u319	It's been a job with results. Yes, results, gentlemen. Members, halving the proportion of workers with involuntary term contracts. Today, there are several other proposals and we are going to discuss them under the dignified agenda. Because, yes, it was the PS that brought another initiative to combat precariousness, especially in temporary work and outsourcing.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u320	There are things that have to be proved!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u321	The PSD calls all this demagogy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u322	Demagogy, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u323	...but it's clear what you want to do. For us, it is an absolute need to combat precariousness in young people. But little will advance us to make strong labour laws if we are weak with those who rape them and that is why we are now moving from theory to practice. We do not apologize for our age, as we wanted to, but we are going to fight for our generation, to keep young people from being deceived, illegally keeping them in term contracts. [[BE's protests.]] But more: to fight for the payment of extraordinary hours, this year in which the 100 years of the 8 hour day — often not met — are celebrated and to fight for equal pay for equal work, for gender equality at work. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In the face of precariousness, in the defense of young people, socialists do more than words: we make this our time to act! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u324	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u325	Mr President, for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u326	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u327	Mr President, it is to give notice to all the benches of our intention to make an oral request, because we had no chance of doing in writing in good time, so that Bill No. 304 / XV / 1. the, of the Left Block, goes down to the Commission without a vote, for the simple reason that the public discussion period of it has not yet been fulfilled. It is still in public view and, as such, should not be voted on generally before that assessment is completed. I will make this oral request at the time of the vote, but this is the item on the agenda on which the bill has been discussed, I would like to give this information now, so that all benches can be prepared.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u328	Thank you very much for the information, Mr. Therefore, it is registered that an oral requirement will be submitted for Bill No. 304 / XV / 1. a (BE) goes down to the Commission without a vote. We therefore conclude the fourth item on the agenda. We move on to the fifth point, which is contained in the announcement of the motion for a resolution No 4 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves for ratification the Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation between the Portuguese Republic and the Kingdom of Spain, signed in Trujillo, on 28 October 2021, without time for debate, following also point 6, without time for debate, concerning the budget of the Assembly of the Republic for 2023. Both motions for resolutions will then be voted on at the voting stage. Therefore, I ask the services which open the quorum verification period. [[Pause.]] I believe that all Members have been able to register, so I ask the services to indicate the result of the quorum verification. [[Pause.]] We have a quorum and we shall therefore proceed to the vote on the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Members, the first discussion concerns the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the appeal brought by the Arrival concerning the failure to accept draft resolution No 168 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Censorship of the conduct of the President of the Assembly of the Republic for not imposing its institutional conduct on impartiality and exemption from the exercise of office. Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha will read the opinion of 1. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u329	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the opinion is as follows: « In accordance with and for the purposes of Article 126 (3) and (4). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, I should like to inform you that, at this meeting today, this Commission, with the votes in favour of the PSP, PS, PS, IL and CFP, and against the Arrival, in the absence of the BE Parliamentary Group, the DURP ( Only Member Representative of a Party ) of the PAN and the Free DURP, and in view of the fact that their assumptions have not changed, maintain the timely opinion sent to you on the constitutional and regulatory conformity of the Draft Resolution No 168 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Censorship of the conduct of the President of the Assembly of the Republic not to pay its institutional conduct with the impartiality and exemption required for the exercise of office, which had been issued prior to a decision on its admissibility and then approved with the votes in favour of the parliamentary groups of the PS, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN DURP and the L DURP, votes against the CH Parliamentary Group and the abstention of the PSD Parliamentary Group at the meeting of 28 September 2022. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u330	The recurrent parliamentary group has the right to intervene for 2 minutes to substantiate its appeal. To that end, Mr Pedro Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u331	Thank you very much, Mr President. Firstly, I would like to say that nothing moves us, in this Parliamentary Group, against the figure of President Augusto Santos Silva or the President of the Assembly of the Republic. But about the conduct you have sometimes exercised, as a parliamentary leader of the Socialist Party, we have, yes, much to say. Specifically, in relation to the Resolution Project No 168 / XV / 1. a, which we were prevented from presenting in this House, with an opinion of 1. the Commission, I mean that this draft resolution has nothing illegal. Nothing! Even the rejection order does not indicate the constitutional principle violated by the rejected initiative. And it doesn't indicate because it doesn't exist. The Constitution of the Portuguese Republic is omited on a draft of censure to the President of the Assembly of the Republic and what is not prohibited is allowed. That is the great reality and that is what was not fulfilled in the House of Democracy. More: by notorious conflict of interest, it should not have been the President of the Assembly of the Republic to decide on the admission or rejection of this initiative, this draft resolution. This project should have been allowed, as many others are allowed in this House. It's the only thing we have to say. Democracy failed, this Resolution Project No 168 / XV / 1. ( CH) nothing has to be illegal. We have fulfilled everything that was stipulated, but unfortunately we have collapsed in an anti-democratic wall. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u332	The Bureau no longer records any request for a word, so we shall vote on the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the appeal submitted by the CH, concerning the failure to accept draft resolution No 168 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Censorship of the conduct of the President of the Assembly of the Republic for not imposing its institutional conduct on impartiality and exemption from the exercise of office. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L, votes against the CH and abstention from the PSD.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the Draft Deliberation No 7 / XV / 1. a ( PAR) — The first amendment is made to Resolution No 1 - PL / 2022 of 8 April ( List and composition of standing parliamentary committees ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote on the Draft Deliberation No. 8 / XV / 1. a ( PAR) — Suspension of parliamentary committees' work during the budgetary procedure. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let's now vote for draft resolution No 264 / XV / 1. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to Ireland. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u333	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u334	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u335	Mr President, that is to say that we are going to make a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u336	It's registered, Mr. Deputies. The general vote of Bill No 243 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (IL) — The end of the limits for fixing vacancies for international students in private and cooperative higher education establishments. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of CH, IL, BE and PAN and abstentions from PSD, PCP and L.]] We shall also vote, in general, on draft resolution No. 188 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Recommends that the Government review the financing model for higher education establishments. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, CH, IL, BE, PAN and L, votes against the CFP and the PS abstention.]] Mrs. Members, the project we just voted on is low to 8. The general vote on draft resolution No 189 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Recommends that the Government assess the legal regime of higher education institutions. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD, the CH, the IL, the BE, the PAN and the L and with abstentions from the PS and the CFP.]] As in the previous initiative, this project is also down to 8. Let's now vote for draft resolution No 224 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Recommends that the Government anticipate the results of the National Public Higher Education Access and Entry Competition for the academic year 2023 - 2024. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE, the PAN and the L and the PCP abstention.]] The general vote of Bill No. 289 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (PAN) — Approves measures to extend the offer of accommodation for higher education students by amending the Housing Bases Act and the IRS Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PAN and L and abstentions from PSD, CH, IL and PCP.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 292 / XV / 1. a (BE) — Alter the nature of the financing of higher education institutions by extinguishing the foundational regime. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE and L and abstention from the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u337	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u338	Please, Mr. Rui Tavares.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u339	Mr President, it is to inform me that I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u340	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The general vote of Bill No 300 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( CH) — Alter Law No 62 / 2007 of 10 September establishing the Legal Regime of Higher Education Institutions, densifying the need for evaluation of the RJIES. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L, votes against the CH and the IL and the abstention from the PSD.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 302 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Measures to support students in higher education within the framework of school social action. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected, in favour of the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L and abstentions of the PSD, the CH and of the Members of the PS Eduardo Alves, Eunice Pratas, Francisco Dinis, Joana Sá Pereira, Miguel dos Santos Rodrigues, Miguel Matos, Pedro Anastácio and Tiago Soares Monteiro.]] The general vote of Bill No. 303 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PCP ) — Elimination of tips, taxes and emoluments in public higher education. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes in favour of the PCP, BE, PAN and L and abstentions by PS MPs Eduardo Alves, Eunice Pratas, Francisco Dinis, Joana Sá Pereira, Miguel dos Santos Rodrigues, Miguel Matos, Pedro Anastácio and Tiago Soares Monteiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u341	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u342	Please, Mr. Miguel Costa Matos.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u343	Mr President, I would like to inform you that I will present a statement of vote on my behalf and on behalf of the honourable Members. Deputies Eduardo Alves, Pedro Anastácio, Francisco Dinis, Joana Sá Pereira, Eunice Pratas, Miguel Rodrigues and Tiago Soares Monteiro, regarding the vote of the last two initiatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u344	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Alexandra Leitão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u345	Mr President, I would like to inform you that I myself, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves and Mrs Isabel Alves Moreira will also present a joint statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u346	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We continue to vote, in general, on Bill No. 279 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Extension of the network of day care facilities and free of charge of day care facilities. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of the PS, CH, BE, PAN and L, and abstentions by the IL and the CFP.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 218 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — National lifting of the number of daytime vacancies. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft resolution we just voted down to 10. the Commission. Let us now, in general, vote on Bill No. 281 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Ensures the realization of progressive universality in access to day care centres, extending the freeness of day care facilities to the private sector ( amendment to Law No 2 / 2022 of 3 January ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS, BE and L, votes against the CH, IL and the PAN and the abstention from the CFP.]] The general vote of Bill No. 287 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (PAN) — Extends the free rate of daycare to children who enter private establishment due to the absence of public or protocoled offer, amending Law No 2 / 2022 of 3 January. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of the PS, CH, BE, PAN and L, and abstentions by the IL and the CFP.]] We shall proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 294 / XV / 1. a (L) — Establishs the duty of the Government to collect and disseminate data relating to daycare and public pre-school education establishments and enshrines the universality of pre-school education for children from 3 years of age. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and the PS and votes against the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] The general vote of Bill No. 296 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( BE ) — Extends cooperation agreements for the development of social responses to public institutions in the labour market. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and PSD, votes in favour of CH, IL, BE, PAN and L and the abstention from the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u347	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u348	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u349	Mr President, I would like to inform you that we are going to make a statement of vote on the voting of this set of projects on the issue of day care.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u350	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. The vote on draft resolution No 200 / XV / 1. a (CH) — The guarantee of free daycare throughout the national territory. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH and the NAP and IL, the CFP, the BE and the L.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 263 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Amend the Penal Code by aggravating the penalties applicable to crimes of rape and sexual abuse of children and introducing the possibility of the application of an accessory penalty of chemical castration, in case of recurrence. [[Subject to the vote, the PS, PS, IL, PCP, BE, PAN and L were rejected and votes in favour of the CH.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 164 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government further monitor future contracts. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CH, IL, BE, PAN and L and the abstention from the CFP.]] The project we just voted down to 10. the Commission. The general vote of Bill No 61 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PCP ) — Combats job insecurity and strengthens the rights of workers ( 10th amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code ). [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS, the PS and the IL and votes against the CH, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 293 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Extension of tasks of the Working Conditions Authority ( amendment to Regulation Decree No 47 / 2012 of 31 July ). [[When put to the vote, votes were cast against the PS and the PSD in favour of the CFP, BE, NAP and L and abstentions from the CH and IL.]] The general vote of Bill No. 295 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PAN) — Increases the guarantees of beneficiaries of unemployment benefits under the rules relating to vocational training by amending Decree-Law No 220 / 2006 of 3 November 2006. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, votes against the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the IL abstention.]] It is now necessary to vote on a request submitted by BE, asking the Committee on Labour, Social Security and Inclusion, without a 60-day vote of Bill No. 304 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Alter the legal regime applicable to term contracts by amending Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote on draft resolution No 228 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Strengthening the Staff Framework of the Working Authority — ACT. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the BE and the NAP and IL, the PCP and the L.]] We now proceed to the overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 4 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves for ratification the Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation between the Portuguese Republic and the Kingdom of Spain, signed in Trujillo, on 28 October 2021. [[The vote was taken by votes to PS, PS, CH, IL and L and with abstentions from the CFP, BE and PAN.]] Next we voted on the proposal for a budget of the Assembly of the Republic for 2023. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, it is now important to vote on opinions from the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, for which I give the floor to the Secretary of the Bureau Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u351	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Braga, Local Court of Braga — Judge 1, Case No 3133 / 18.3T8BRG, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Hugo Pires ( PS ) to give written testimony as a witness within the scope of those cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u352	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha, please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u353	Mr. President and Mr. Members, in accordance with the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Aveiro, Central Court Cable of Santa Maria da Feira — Judge 3, Case No 3869 / 21.1T8VFR, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Joaquim Pinto Moreira ( PSD ) to provide written testimony as a witness within the framework of the said cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-10-07.u354	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We thus conclude our agenda. The next plenary session will take place on Wednesday, 12 October, at 3 p.m., on the agenda of the following items: political statements, at the first item; at the second point, the debate on Petition No 69 / XIV / 1. a ( Sara Alexandra Flores Gonçalves ) — By closing the shopping on Sundays, along with the Bills Nos. 153 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Regulation of hours of operation of trade and distribution units and 345 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Regulations and limits the operating hours of large commercial areas and establishes a transitional system for the reduction of the normal working period. In the third, and last point, Petition No 209 / XIV / 2 will be appreciated. a ( Mariana Franco Fernandes ) — They request the allocation of the nature of public crime to the non-consensual sharing of sexual content, together with the Bills No. 156 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Strengthens the protection of victims of private firearms by means of non-consensual sharing of sexual carousel content, 157 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Prevents the crime of non-consensual disclosure of intimate or sexual content, amending the Penal Code, 208 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Creation of the crime of unauthorized pornography (fifty-fifth amendment to the Criminal Code and forty-fifth amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure) and 347 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Strengthens the protection of victims of crimes of non-consensual dissemination of intimate content by amending the Criminal Code and Decree-Law No 7/2004 of 7 January 2004 approving electronic commerce in the internal market and processing of personal data. Good weekend and good afternoon to all. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 23 minutes.]]
