ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority. Let us start the meeting of the Standing Committee. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I request that the gallery doors be opened. I wish everyone a very good year, that we're still on time. Today is Kingsday. For some of us, it was more President of the Republic, since we were in Bethlehem — Bethlehem is always present in our thoughts. We will start our agenda, the first of which is political statements, but before that, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha has information to give to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I inform the House that you have entered the Bureau and was admitted, draft resolution No 1543 / XIV/ 3. a ( PAR) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Mozambique.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u3	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. On a matter of loyalty, I must say that recently Mr. President of the Republic informed all those who were having lunch in his company that he could not make this trip because it was said that COVID hit strongly the entities of the state of Mozambique. In any case, we have to vote for the diploma at the time of the vote because, in the same way that the COVID appears, it may disappear. Anyway, let's hope! Let us then turn to the political statements and begin by giving the floor, with great pleasure, to Mr João Oliveira of the CFP Parliamentary Group. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The country needs solutions to national problems. It needs solutions that ensure the overall increase in wages for all workers as a national emergency, including the increase in the minimum wage, but also of the other salaries that have not risen at the same pace in recent years. The country needs solutions to save the National Health Service ( SNS ), strengthening its response capacity rather than replacing the disease business, hiring more professionals for the SNS, guaranteeing them better wages and careers, creating incentives for their fixation in areas where their lack is greater and investing in modern and technologically advanced infrastructure and equipment. The country needs solutions to ensure decent living conditions for pensioners and pensioners, after a lifetime of work. This requires the end of the penalties for reforms and a general increase covering all pensions. The country needs solutions that guarantee the rights of parents and children, including the freeness of foster care for all children as a factor of trust for young families to make the decision to have children, contrary to the demographic deficit that haunts the national future. The country needs solutions to defend the right to housing for young families who cannot access it, but also for those who see its housing threatened by the incompatible increase in incomes or by wildlife clearance processes. The country needs solutions. These solutions exist, were proposed by the CFP and could already be a reality. This is not because the PS preferred to add its votes to the votes of PSD, CDS, the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival, to reject them. In the last two years alone, there were 108 bills and hundreds of proposals submitted by the PCP in the State budgets rejected by the alignment of the PS with the right. The country did not need elections, it needed solutions, but the PS preferred to put the ambition of the absolute majority in front of the country's needs. By refusing the solutions presented by the CFP, repeatedly refusing to leave their initial positions, the PS government prevented the Budget from being approved in order to be able to go to elections, becoming a victim. How can it be explained that the PS Government has refused concrete measures to strengthen the SNS and its response capacity or measures to curb the increase in household income and evictions? How is it explained that the PS Government has refused the solutions to strengthen the protection of the unemployed, to recover the purchasing power lost by the pensioners, or to revoke labour standards, which cause the collective contracts of workers to lapse and prevent the rise of wages? The appeals to the absolute majority, which the PS has repeated in recent weeks, answer these questions, confirming that the PS did not want solutions, wanted elections. The PS rejected all these solutions, but Portugal needs them today and will continue to need them after the 30th day elections, whatever their outcome. But the outcome of these elections is not indifferent to the way the country will follow. The question that is put to the country is to ensure progress and to counter the objectives of the great capital of aggravating exploitation, injustice and inequality, the channelling of public funds for profits and dividends, which leave the country for tax havens. It is to prevent absolute majority, central blocks or other arrangements created to promote injustice and backwardness. The question that is put to the Portuguese next day 30 is whether the PS succeeds in its plan for the absolute majority or whether the Portuguese people reject this absolute majority of the PS and strengthens the CDU (Unitarian Democratic Coalition ). The consequence of having an absolute majority of PS we all know what it is: the PS would be free for four years to make the policy that well understood, including alignment with PSD, CDS and its successors. If, on the contrary, the people reject this absolute majority and strengthen the CDU, the path that remains open is the path of deepening the achievements and advances of recent years, it is the path of alternative policy and convergence with all those who are interested in achieving the necessary solutions to the country. The arrogance with which the PS claims today the absolute majority as the only solution and closes the door to the convergences that it had previously said to defend for being beneficial to the people can only have a response by the Portuguese people, a response that denies the absolute majority and strengthens the CDU as a decisive force of convergence that is needed to respond to national problems. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the perspective we are pointing out today to the Portuguese people is that we have always pointed out, especially in the darkest and most uncertain times and doubts about the national future. It is the perspective that there are solutions and there are solutions to the problems and that it is with the struggle of the workers and the people, with the struggle of the Democrats and patriots, with the response to their righteous demands, desires and aspirations, which build up this future of democracy, freedom, equality and social justice. It was with this perspective of hope and confidence that we pointed out the way to defeat the policy of the PEC (the Stability and Growth Pact) and the pact of aggression of the troika and to remove the PSD and the Government's CDS in 2015 when the PS had already thrown the towel to the ground and prepared to let them rule for another four years. It was with this perspective of hope and confidence that over the past few years we have won PS's resistance to the increase in wages and pensions, the freeness of school manuals and day care, the reduction of the price of transport passes and so many other measures, which millions of Portuguese value the positive impacts they have had on their lives. It is with this perspective that we affirm today that a better future is possible, because it is in the struggle of the workers and the people that bases our hope and trust. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u5	We will continue with the political declaration of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, through Mr Miguel Arrobas. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this first political statement of 2022, I begin by wishing everyone a good New Year, a year that will certainly continue to bring us many uncertainties and challenges, but, as Mr President of the Republic said, this should be a year to turn the page. About two years ago we found ourselves with the COVID-19 pandemic and I apologize for repeating the true torments that we have all been going through since then. But I do not excuse repeating the shock of the CDS when we find that the government has learned little and that, instead of acting in advance, almost always just reacts to it. Instead of defining strategies that are meaningful and effective, the Government continues to launch unfair, uncoordinated and disorientating measures. Instead of strongly betting on an effective communication policy, we continue to see statements and counter-declarations, which do no more than confuse the population. And instead of having fulfilled the promises made at the beginning of the pandemic, the government continues to "push them with the belly" trying to pretend that the problems do not persist. Luckily, not everything went wrong. If there was a successful process, it was vaccination. But now that we are facing the omicron variant, which is less serious, it is true, but much more transmissible and which already represents almost 90 % of the infections in Portugal, when it is already known that the booster dose is essential, we do not understand how the government does not progress massively with the vaccination of this dose and is doing it at a much slower rate. People under the age of 60, who work and have to leave home every day, have not yet had access to boosting the vaccine—it is crucial to speed up this process. And it is regrettable that the pandemic continues to generate deep social inequalities as a result of inaction, lack of planning and lack of government strategy. How is it justified that we continue to see daily emergency services crowded by people who, unable to respond through primary health care or SNS 24, have as their only alternative resort to hospital emergencies to treat a simple sore throat, mild fever, a ping on their nose or to do a COVID test? How can it be admitted that non-COVID patients continue to be left behind, seeing them permanently denied the constitutional right to access to health? What justification is there that, almost two years after the Prime Minister's promise to assign 600,000 computers to online classes, so far we do not know how many have been distributed, only do we know that schools and students do not have them? How is it justified that schools continue to close and isolate classes, without public school students being able to have access to online classes, while in private schools they have them? During this week of restraint, we could once again watch this inequality. We can conclude that for the government, after all, education is not for everyone. The CDS rejects this socialist stance with the greatest vehemence. Finally, we cannot fail to draw attention to another too serious issue: according to experts, heard yesterday at the meeting of Infarmed (National Medicines and Health Products Authority ), about 10 % of the population may be confined on the day of the legislative elections. This is not the first time we have had elections since we were in the pandemic — we have already had presidential elections and we have already had actual elections. For more than two months we know that at the end of January, the Portuguese will be called to vote. The omicron variant was detected in Portugal at the end of November and soon it was known that its transmissibility is much greater than the previous variants. How is there still so much uncertainty about what the voting process will be for people in isolation today? How is it that only now does the government ask for opinions to know whether or not these people will be able to vote? How is it that only now DGS ( Directorate-General for Health) is equating to reduce the isolation period to five days? This is when this week has been updated with the isolation standard, reducing them to seven days. How do you want people to realize, if, one day, the isolation is 10 days, the next day, it becomes seven and then it is disclosed that, after all, it can even be five days? What are the scientific criteria that underpin these decisions, which only appear to be taken on the knee? What is the government going to do? Wash your hands, like Pontius Pilates, and leave to the authorities the responsibility to solve this problem? To suspend the isolations on election day? But if people can leave home to exercise their constitutional right to vote, why can't they leave home to go to work? What if 18-year-olds can also leave home to exercise their right to vote, why can't they leave home to attend classes and thus access their constitutional right to education? What is coherence? How do you want people to understand this? The CDS considers it unacceptable that a clear strategy has not already been defined and disseminated to ensure that everyone can exercise their right to vote freely and safely. Democracy is a conquest of which the CDS is very proud and does not abdicate its defense. It is absolutely unacceptable for a Portuguese to be, wherever he is, to be prevented from voting for purely government negligence, which did not precaution the measures, which, as was foreseeable, could have to be taken. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall finish as I began: that 2022 is a year of turning the page; that is the year in which students can access their right to education without limitations; that is the year in which citizens can access their right to health without ideological prejudice; that is the year in which Portuguese people are not prevented from accessing their right to vote; that is the year in which the country, consciously and freely, decides no longer to repeat a government of socialist disgrace. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u7	Mr. Miguel Arrobas, possibly this will be the last meeting I chair with you to speak, but, although I have been here for a short time, I would like to say that I have always appreciated your attitude and your level of intervention and I wish you the greatest personal and political happiness. For a political statement, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, from the PAN Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, taken advantage of to wish everyone a good year, above all with a lot of health and resilience capacity. We continue to live, in Portugal, very difficult times. This health crisis has brought an even more marked loss of income and anyone who goes to the supermarket today knows that, even with more money in the pocket, it ends up bringing less food. More than 400 000 people are below the poverty line today, with the aggravating that those who lost the most were who had the least. contrary to what some, demagogically, proclaim, one third of the people who live in poverty in Portugal are workers and the majority have stable links and right wages at the end of the month. This situation is more marked in some regions of our country, such as the Algarve, where the government continues to ignore that the region—in addition to others—lives only seasonally and has never had a plan of sustainability throughout the year. The government has also ignored—and continues to ignore—that people with schooling up to 9. the year was the group most affected by this crisis and the lack of strategy for vocational education prevents us from having intermediate, specialized technicians in the labor market. On the other hand, the Government continues to ignore single-parent families, in particular mothers in charge of their children and who need free foster care and more support for the reconciliation between family and work life. We have often warned here about the difficulties of people who are most affected by poverty and social vulnerability. The government has continued to ignore the growing poverty of families, where one of the two adults is 65 years old or older. These people are our parents, our mothers, our grandparents, our uncles and aunts, those people who in the day-to-day run across all of us and who, so often, don't even have money to, throughout the week, be able to ensure two meals a day, i.e., to be able to eat and live decently. If the extraordinary protection measures implemented by the current government have succeeded in mitigating the increase in poverty, it has been — we have no doubt! — clearly insufficient. We perceive the uncertainty of the virus we face, but not that contradictory measures are taken. Now open today, now close. You need a certificate today, a test tomorrow. What testimonials? Test the door? Without being at the door? The endless queues for the tests... this without any clarity in communication with the population. The NAP has since the beginning defended the importance of free testing. That was the first thing we warned the government about. And we should already be at a stage where even self-tests would also be free anywhere in the country, universally, so that everyone could easily have access to the test. But it was the only way we had to stop the transmission chains of the COVID-19. However, as there is more life beyond the pandemic and this cannot be forgotten, we should already be at the stage when general and family medical clinicians could respond to their patients again and not only to COVID-19. Adding to this crisis, democracy continues to face multiple challenges, as is the case with the next electoral act already at the door, but we do not yet know which solutions will be adopted to prevent about half a million people from voting. Nor have we been able to swallow the lack of transparency which, by covering the urgency of public contracts, has reigned in what has been the end of this governance, in particular what has happened in the course of the award of prospecting contracts and the grant of lithium, even before the veto power of the municipalities is given in this House. The policy continues to drive the country without any respect for people and for natural heritage. Over the years successive governments have misapplied the funds received from the European Union and Portugal today have a unique opportunity to try to think in the medium and long term, not in a short-term view. This is in a context where the European Funds, through the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ), the CAP ( Common Agricultural Policy ), Portugal 2030 and the REACH-EU ( Cohesion Recovery Assistance Initiative and the Territories of Europe ), will enable our country to have EUR 52 billion. These funds — every penny of this money — must serve the people, the regeneration of our natural heritage and the preservation of biodiversity. The NAP guaranteed the existence of a portal of transparency precisely for the implementation of the PRR, so that its application and its execution can be monitored and so that it will not happen again what, year after year, decades after decades, the Portuguese have finally come to discover: the money has come, has been misapplied or has even been diverted, has not been monitored, and the problems of the country continue to solve. This is the case with ETARs (residual water treatment stations) throughout the country, lack of treatment of waste, air pollution, lack of courage to reduce emissions and combat climate change. This is the case with energy poverty and the discomfort our families still feel at home. This is the case of the overwhelming lack of planning of the territory, the lack of protection of the landscape and biodiversity, the lack of firefighting effectively, inertia in forest management, polluted beaches and out there and, worse, the lack of serious combat to corruption, which every day enters our home and every year robs the country of more than EUR 1000 million. That's what PS and PSD, the two parties that have alternated in power, have used to us. And at a time when it seems to be approaching a new central block it is essential to remember that this will not be positive for the country—not that, not an absolute majority! — and, of course, it will not be positive either a Arrival that threatens fundamental rights and praises a dictatorship that kept people in poverty. On the other hand, we also have a Liberal Initiative that, through its liberalism, wants to end public school, health, social benefits, deeply based on the idea of infinite growth, forgetting that the planet is finished. This as we witness the conservatism of some forces, such as the CDS or the PCP, which prevent us from moving forward in civilizational matters. It is fundamental at this time, ladies and gentlemen. Commissioners, Portugal is progressing civilly in combating climate change, but, above all, in strengthening our democracy. However, this does not happen more than that, it changes the installed system in a disruptive way.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u9	You have the floor, for a political statement, Mrs Mariana Silva of The Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The fatigue accumulates and the days remain uncertain with the high numbers of infected by the new omicron variant. The Portuguese population is again confronted with uncertainty. Experts indicate that the situation is evolving favourably, since the red lines "inpatients" and "inpatients in intensive care unit" continue to be moderated according to high vaccination values. Although we have not been caught unaware, we continue to witness serious problems in the workplace, with workers afraid of being fired if they become infected. The workers of culture face the cancellation of the shows again. Trade, restoration or tourism are hostages to new measures. Telework and reconciliation with family life again cause problems in the lives of many families. The professionals in the so-called "front line" are exhausted and unfortunately the promises that everything would change did not pass away from promises. Given the very high transmissibility of the variant omicron of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, we believe that the same needs as Greens have been addressed since the beginning of the pandemic. It is urgent to strengthen the National Health Service by setting professionals with better wages and better working conditions, especially with regard to primary care, also strengthening public health teams, teams of vaccination centres, mental health teams. It is necessary to ensure close monitoring of those who are infected and those who are forced to be isolated. Health professionals continue to be overburdened and expressions of gratitude are not sufficient for them to feel that their efforts, their delivery, are valued. Despite the remarkable response to the pandemic, today there is an emergency in the National Health Service, where they open themselves every day that passes, new gaps, new holes, that can ruin it. There is an emergency in response to COVID-19 and in response to all the other activity that continues to be marked by lack of means. And, of course, there are the economic groups with interests in the health business to rub the hands of content and their friends, in the parties on the right and in the comments of the media, to give that friendly support to pour out another piece of the Budget. It was this sense of emergency that the PS didn't want to see when he pushed us into early elections. The Greens have also warned of the need to strengthen public transport, since workers and their dependents continue to travel piled up under conditions which do not guarantee the health security of each other. Yesterday, at the meeting with the specialists of Infarmed, it was mentioned again the need to have limited lotion in transport so that people can comply with the rules of distance at the time we live with such a contagious variant. But in order to comply with these rules, which should have been rooted in each one of us on a day-to-day basis, efficient answers are needed in all collective public transport: land, river, sea and rail. The government will tell us that this requires great investment and does not help the right accounts. We know that, but the accounts that interest us in the first place are the accounts that people make for life every time they have to decide to enter the subway, train or bus overcrowded. Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we still want to leave the conviction that we cannot allow the epidemic to prevent anyone from voting. The Electoral Administration shall ensure all measures within the framework of the law so that on election day no one shall be deprived of the freedom of that right to vote. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today it has been confirmed that on day 10 the classes are resumed. We believe that it is essential to avoid further delays in student learning and we appreciate the change in the measures concerning unnecessary isolation. We must not forget that the damage we are causing to Portuguese children and adolescents is difficult to quantify. During these months we have often heard about the need to listen to science. Let us then listen to science regarding the harmful effects, on the mental health of children and young people, these long periods of isolation and absence of social contact. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, since we talk about schools, we do not want to let the opportunity pass to express our amazement at the concern and the corresponding promises that the PS has revealed in recent days about the placement of teachers. The facts are known: four months have passed since the beginning of the classes and thousands of teachers have been unemployed and thousands of students without teachers. There are teachers in the north who are placed south and vice versa and there are teachers throughout the country who are teaching hundreds of miles of home. The PS has taken out of the carton the promise that it will now change the teacher placement contest, so they don't go with the house behind their backs. How are you gonna do it? He doesn't say. When are you gonna do it? He doesn't say. But it's all worth it now. Nor does it say—and that is what still intrigues us—because this concern has not been present every time the ENP proposals have emerged in this House, choosing not to solve the situation. We have put forward proposals to compensate teachers for the costs caused by such a situation or proposals for the creation of fair rules for teacher competitions, in response to the needs of schools. Yes, we proposed extraordinary support for teachers displaced over 50 km from their homes. The PS has always rejected them. in the debate of the State budget of 2022 did not even accept that this proposal was the debate. Let us be serious: the Prime Minister who threatened to resign himself because the Assembly of the Republic was going to decide to return the rights teachers who were robbed never wanted to answer the teachers. Words lead them to the wind. [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u11	It is the turn of the PS Parliamentary Group. You have the floor for a political statement, Mr Carlos Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The political crisis we are experiencing, which forced the country to divert its attention from the greatest fight in our lives, demanding that the struggle that was being made on behalf of a generation by controlling the health crisis was not inevitable. And, really, it should never have happened. But despite the complex public health situation, the signs of economic recovery are consistent. The country is at the forefront of the start of economic growth in 2021, public debt continues to fall, public investment should accompany the enormous dynamism of private investment, unemployment is the lowest in Europe, Portuguese incomes have grown and public policies have had a positive effect on maintaining productive capacity and business robustness by strengthening its capitalisation. But the irresponsibility of those who rejected the State budget can prevent us from speeding up a new era that our fellow citizens looked forward to with great anxiety and introduced an unusual disappointment, making the hope that it was being built up with solid foundations and, above all, extraordinary means. Portugal knows those responsible for this unfortunate circumstance: he knows who they left the boat at the first opportunity, leaving the Portuguese without pain or pity; he knows who they have tried an insurmountable difficulty to also leave; and he knows who they are who have never really been with the country, but always at the glance of a moment for instability to favor them, even if it harmed the Portuguese. They invented « thirty by one line», built miraculous scenarios and became involved in successive conflicts, but almost always distant from the interests of the country. Mr President, in recent years Portugal has experienced the period of greater economic growth since the beginning of democracy. He exceeded the difficult times of austerity, demonstrating that the right accounts are compatible with growth and with a robust social agenda. The surplus of the public accounts, the reduction of debt and the good budget forecasts, which took the country out of the excessive deficit procedure, gave the international recognition that enabled the economy to finance at a lower cost and meet the challenges of the COVID-19. The Portuguese have come to rely on the government, as the magazine Forbes explained, to justify the good results of the fight against the pandemic. Policies began to serve companies and families, young people stayed in Portugal, and records of foreign investment and exports show the goodness of a new era, with a new political strategy. Today, it is worth noting that, instead of offering Europe a reduction package of 600 million in Portuguese pensions—in fact, the current leader of the opposition has come to claim about the death-negotiator of this approach, Dr. Maria Luís Albuquerque, whether it was in its place or not—we negotiated a Recovery and Resilience Plan, ensuring the means to defend the Portuguese and enhance our productive capacity. Mr President, we left behind the times of the devilish hell of the policies that punished, defeated and humiliated Portuguese after Portuguese. That is why everyone must assume their responsibilities. The PS is proud of a path where we fight alongside the Portuguese and face the biggest crisis that we have memory. at this moment, at least one month from the elections, we continue without lowering our arms and, in the same patriotic sense, we associate ourselves with the concerns of the President of the Republic. It is necessary to turn the page of the pandemic and stability and predictability are needed. The PS built a legacy of stability around António Costa, minimizing constitutional rigours, respecting sovereignty organs and sharing decisions with the highest judge of the Republic, without exuberance and with high sense of state. This showed the relevance and usefulness of a dialogueal profile and bridge builder, but at the same time destroying palace plots. The PS, with António Costa, broke down apparently intransponible walls, always for a greater good: the well-being of the Portuguese. The results today are obvious. So the country knows that it is not the time to risk adventures. The Portuguese know that the path is narrow and the alternative played by the opposition leader does not guarantee stability nor gives confidence in the construction of a moderate and progressive Portugal. The clouds of civilizational retrogression, radicalization and programmatic austerity accompany the steps of the current PSD, whose leader does not hesitate to transvestate as a spokesperson of supposed kindness in a nearly feudal program of one of the parties of Portuguese politics. The country, we all know, needs stability and governmental capacity, but this desire is not achieved with someone who abuses conflict, authoritarianism or, no less important, governmental inexperience. The opposition leader, it must be said, is committed to an agenda that overthrows prudence, ignores the strength of moderation and devalues principles conquered by the rule of law that all have helped to rise. With all this, it threatens to put Portugal on a path guided by positions that represent a backwardness and by models of government that introduce instability and unpredictability. Mrs. Members, Portugal faces a unique challenge : it will vote to elect a government. But the greater party of opposition has closed down at the feet of the principles, leaving the Portuguese the PS as the only moderate, progressive solution with guarantees of stability, the only one that avoids risks and adventures and provides the stability of four years that Portugal so needs. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u13	For a political declaration, Mr Nuno Miguel Carvalho of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is essential to make decisions that place the country as a priority when we still need to overcome the pandemic and the same effects on health, the economy and many other sectors of society. in this context, it is essential to realize that the collective effort of the Portuguese to overcome the pandemic has represented advances that bring us closer and closer to the return to normality. But if, on the one hand, the Portuguese accession to vaccination has increased the country's ability to resist the pandemic, it is clear that the non-planning of strengthening doses—as the PSD warned at the end of the summer—is a government decision that has diminished the country's capacity to resist the pandemic. The efforts of health professionals in combating pandemics were crucial, but the government's response was short or non-existent in response to the warnings issued by these same professionals. In fact, Mrs. Minister of Health even demanded more resilience from health professionals at the Setúbal Hospital Center in this Parliament. In other words, he heard the appeal and wanted to respond to the detriment of wanting to understand what the resignation of 87 directors represents in an essential hospital for the Setúbal district.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u16	Later, Marta Temido apologized to the doctors who demanded more resilience, because she admitted that they were at the limit and it was impossible to demand more. But what the Minister of Health did not realize until today is that she did not require only more resilience to health professionals, she also required more resilience to patients who are not diagnosed or treated because the National Health Service is at the limit, as the sector's professionals themselves warn. however, it will be of no use to apologize to the people who today fail with the treatment, nor to those who today fail with the diagnosis. Alexandre Lourenço, President of the Portuguese Association of Hospital Administrators, said that « the most shocking thing is to know that there are people living with cancer today and that the disease has not been diagnosed. Do not keep on seeking. ” Underlining: asking doctors to be at the limit of their ability to work to be more resilient is the same as asking patients to be more resilient. And in the future it will do nothing to apologize to this government. The first resignation at the Setúbal Hospital Center took place in August. The director of the Obstetrics service of the Hospital de Setúbal, Pinto de Almeida, had already alerted, in February 2020, before the pandemic, to the critical situation that was experienced due to the lack of professionals. The alert was followed by the resignation of the clinical director and later by the resignation of 87 doctors at the Setúbal Hospital Center. The final alert was expressed through the resignation of several directors, in Braga, Santa Maria and Faro. [[PS Deputy Protests Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes.]] This is the result of a government that has the closed mind to invest in the National Health Service, but keeps its mouth open to say that it defends it. The health care professionals' alerts were not heard. And the reason why they were ignored lies in the vision and decision of Antonio Costa that, in July 2021, announced another illusion: the «total liberation of society» would occur next summer. With the supposed end of the pandemic announced by Mr. Prime Minister in the form of total release, the National Health Service would no longer be so necessary. This same declaration of release also served as a basis for the Government to dispense timely planning of the reinforcement doses by the end of summer, with the consequent demobilization of vaccination centres. It is obvious that neither Portugal nor any other rule of law, a Prime Minister does not withdraw or grant full freedom to society. But what was said in June was a clear signal from the Secretary-General of the PS that he thinks the threat is to lose the elections and forget that the real threat is still the pandemic and the devastating effects it causes in the country, particularly in health, employment and increased cost of living. During June, while António Costa announced the total liberation of society and pointed to forecasts of growth of the economy of 9 %, an OECD study ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ), published in the same summer, indicated that GDP (gross domestic product) percapitated will still take almost three years to return to pre-pandamy levels and that our country will be the third slower of the most developed group. The Prime Minister wants to declare himself victorious in fighting the pandemic, but a self-declaration of victory is wrong, not only because the pandemic and its impacts have not yet ended, but also because whoever wins the pandemic is the collective effort of the Portuguese, it is not António Costa. The confinement was a collective effort of great sacrifice for the Portuguese, it was not an order of António Costa. Vaccination occurs due to the mobilization of the country and not because António Costa sends the Portuguese to vaccinate themselves. The correct attitude of the government would be to focus on decisions that enable the country to overcome the pandemic. So if the government wanted to claim merits today, it had to have known how to make decisions in the past. Declaring the end of the pandemic after summer was not even a bad decision, it was a wrong forecast. The challenges facing the country do not allow governance to continue without firm decisions and remain at the flavor of the tide, waiting for the winds that can blow on the left or waiting for the winds that can blow on the right. To be waiting for winds that can blow on the left or right, clearly, is to leave a country drifting away. All efforts made by the Portuguese deserve to be matched by a government that knows how to decide. in a pandemic, there are naturally doubts, but there is no margin for indecisions. I just want to decide when it's right it's the same thing that you don't decide. This is the great brand of this government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u17	For a political statement, Mrs Joana Mortágua of the BE Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us begin with the novelty: the decline in the age of reform, caused by the excessive mortality associated with the pandemic, will make many teachers anticipate the age of their reform. The conclusion is that, next school year, it will be necessary to hire more teachers than was expected, and the lack of teachers in public school ends up being another stick in a gear that is already fragile. That's what the Left Block comes here again. The reasons for the lack of teachers in public school are complex. It is an explosive combination of teaching age, career development and precariousness of younger teachers who have been creating a time bomb. To the appreciation of teachers in schools — their autonomy, their specialty and their fair pay for their work — corresponds to the lack of social recognition, which is necessary to attract new professionals. The process is palpable, concrete and dangerous. No one should bow to the protection of a past where the devaluation of teachers was deliberate and calculated from the 5th of October Avenue, where the Ministry of Education used to be installed. It is clear that there have been many people here who have been deceived and have lost control of the situation. We do not intend to do archaeology and that is why we are going to focus on the most recent facts. In 2012, former Minister Nuno Crato stated in an interview that there were more teachers and that it was inevitable to reduce the number of teachers—and it is fair to acknowledge that he did so. The Court of Auditors identified that between the school years 2010 and 2015 the reduction of teaching staff reached 21 %, in particular due to the fall in the number of contracts, i.e. younger teachers. The memory is useful and there are those who can think that Nuno Crato was polluted by troika excesses, but there is Rui Rio here to insist on the idea, already in 2019, that we have more teachers. The reality denied him and, in the school year of 2021 - 2022, in the second month of classes, there were already 691 teachers in schools throughout the country, there were many disciplines in which students had no teacher and many of them will continue in the first, second, and third periods. The problem is structural, systemic and tends to get worse. The question — and now I jump to the Socialist Party — is to know why the government has done nothing to prevent it. in this matter, it is spurred the conversation that the Left Block or any other party share responsibilities in the inaction of Minister Tiago Brandão Rodrigues. successive warnings, proposals, negotiations, draft resolutions and bills were ignored or plunged by the Socialist Party. And even when Parliament approved a project that required the government to negotiate with the unions rather than comply, what the government did was to demand its unconstitutionality. For years, successive PS governments have promised studies on the sustainability of the teaching career, but they have never left. The studies were an excuse for inaction in relation to obvious problems, they are a resounding proposal for all occasions, but completely discredited by a minister who, even last year, considered that the lack of teachers did not go beyond the specific needs and guarantee that the system was oiled and working well. I would like to give you an idea of this « oiled system», a known idea, but which was renewed by a report last October. This report told the story of two teachers from Algarve, Tânia Monteiro and Patrícia Silva. Tânia Monteiro taught in Lagos and rented a room for 350 €, from which he was expelled before the end of the school year for the landlord to rent his room to tourists. This case reminded her of a colleague who had gone to live in a camp for exactly the same reason. This teacher goes from Almancil to Aveiro and has a husband and two children, aged 10 and 11, but can't go every week to see the family, because she's a first step teacher, earns €1100 and the money doesn't get to go home every weekend. This teacher finished the course in 2004 and continues to be precarious. Patrícia Silva has to pay to work. She is 40 years old, she is a professor of Physical Education, earns 633 €, has a schedule of 13 hours and pays for the room 250 €, out of expenses. last year, he went through four different schools in Damascus, Castro Daire, Lourinhã and Lisbon. Teachers are missing for many reasons. But this does not mean there are no solutions. Changing the norm-work, making an extraordinary linkage, supporting teachers such as Patrícia Silva and Tânia Monteiro, who have to travel in the transport and housing, recognizing the rights of teachers with incomplete hours, reducing the size of the pedagogical area paintings, reviewing initial training and allowing career progression are just some of the solutions proposed by the Left Block and so far denied by the Socialist Party. at the bottom, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, teachers are missing because the government has missed the country and has missed the public school. This novelty that changing the age of reform has accelerated this process only shows that the government was not prepared to deal with this lack of teachers, did not take structural measures, did not take immediate measures, did not respond as it was necessary and, therefore, now, does not have the capacity to respond to inevitability. Teachers are missing because the government has failed the country and the public school. This is an inheritance we don't share. The Left Block is expected to be here, in defense of teachers and public school, as it has always been. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u19	Mr Ventura has just informed the Bureau that he had requested to make an intervention at this item on the agenda. It happens that the information we have is that you are not entitled to do this because you have already used that time in the last Standing Committee. So let's move on to the second item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u20	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u21	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. What I ask, Mr President, is that the services, which know the number of interventions to which we are entitled and know the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, should not cease to bring something on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u23	I ask you to be quick, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u24	I am sorry, Mr President, to ask me to be quick, but I have the right to speak and use the time I need to talk. So there's an agenda on the day that the arrival is registered to speak. Mr President now says that there is no right to do so, but it was on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u25	I'm sorry, but the agenda I've got here isn't here an intervention from arrive.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u26	He is, he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u27	It is now Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha who has given me a second information, that there has been a lack of services, and that is why you have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u28	Ah, there was a lapse! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u29	I am not obliged to know that there is a delay in the services when I am presented with a list of interventions that are equal to what you have there, where that is not. I will therefore give you the floor without further delay, because the delay will have been of the services and of the Bureau. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u30	Mr. President, who is certainly not responsible is the party...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u31	Please start intervening. I'm so sorry. It is obviously the responsibility of the Bureau and ultimately the President of the Assembly of the Republic. But it is a fact that the services, if it was something that was asked for 48 hours ago, had had all the time to communicate to the Bureau what was not communicated. That's why it's been distributed to all of you. Members, including Mr André Ventura, the list of stakeholders for political declarations, in which there is no arrival. Please, honourable Member, begin with my apologies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President, I thank you. I believe that this meeting, which is the last meeting of this Parliament, does not serve a dialogue between the Arrival and the President of the Assembly of the Republic, and much less the Arrival can be penalized for any error that has been made. In due time, he called for a political declaration. That was what he had been given, and that was what he had been informed this morning, i.e. that he would have the right to make a political declaration. So let's do it. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have all seen a police officer being assaulted on the streets of Lisbon in the last few days. A citizen, unpunished, on the loose, assaulted a police officer. Without any character, without any sense of justice and without any fear of the consequences, he went after him, persecuted him and still called others to help the party. A citizen who has gone, in the middle of the streets of Lisbon, to attack the Municipal Police and who has had to be arrested by the PSP (PSC) is the sign and the symbol of how management has left the country in recent years. Thousands of police throughout the country feel unauthorized, feel powerless to act. The face, the expression and the family of that man are well the expression of the country that we have today in many forces and in many bodies of our Public Administration, where we feel the lack of authority and the feeling of screaming impunity that exists between the banditry and those who want to do justice. in the Lisbon Metropolitan Command of the PSP three police officers are attacked every day, in the face of the passivity of a Parliament that is unable to increase the penalties to put this ban on the jail for many and many years. No, humanism, on the one hand, hands shaking, on the other, and we all continue to do a little bit of what we've done in recent years. In addition, and with the support of the PCP and the Left Block, there are suicides in Portugal far above the average recorded in the European Union. Every year, police killed themselves at their stations, without any further support from the State to their families and without any support from the State to those who were supposed to protect us. Shame of the Assembly of the Republic, which managed to spend years and years, with a left-wing majority in Parliament, without giving support to those who promised to support, i.e. those who defend us. Ah, there's no doctors! Ah, we're missing teachers! Ah, there's a lack of operational technicians! Ah, we're missing attachments! This is said on the left, which approved six budgets of the Socialist Party state! And on the right we look at this and we say you're right? Oh, my God! No, you're not right! It was you who approved six State budgets and allowed fewer doctors to stay in the National Health Service, that fewer police existed in areas such as Borba, Reg Dallas, Beja and Évora and that hospitals, such as the algarvio barlavent and others, were never built. however, now, come here, twenty-fifty days from the elections, say: "There are no teachers, there are no teachers! » If the country did not laugh out there, I would certainly find grace for this tragic-commedia wedding between the Socialist Party and its extreme-left allies. Now, the left wants to escape your responsibilities, but I have some bad news for you: very few days left for the elections and the country, the Portuguese people will not forget what was six years of left-wing governance, with deterioration of the National Health Service, with destruction of employment and the economy, with many men and women in this country, in front of restaurants, bars and discotheques, who today know that they will have to be closed for another two weeks, without any support, with six State budgets approved by you. Here's the country we left on the edge of elections! A country with a left to want to escape its responsibilities, but always saying that it is willing to make a new agreement, as soon as the elections come. Power, always power! The smell of power is too great to realize that it is the country that we owe the first responsibility and it is the Portuguese that we owe the greatest loyalty. But on the right there is a great challenge in these elections. Right cannot be the right again to cut pensions to whom you least have. The right cannot be the right to cut wages, nor the right to cut in the fundamental services of the State. It must be the right down tax, the right able to truly break into the political system in Portugal and to have the courage for the first time to tell the Portuguese that they will do one thing: to end with half the political positions in Portugal. That is why this right, strong and majority, can compete. The Portuguese spend a much higher value per year than the OECD registered in political positions. The debate on regionalisation will lead us to pay even more political positions in this country. in this country which has 27 000 members of the parish, 6000 municipal Members and more than 2000 councillors, now want there to be regional Members, regional governments and similar things. My friends, the time is not to give money to politicians. The time is to give money to the Portuguese, the time is to give money to the middle class that is impoverished by this pandemic, the time is to return money to the sectors that were affected by this pandemic, to those elderly people who choose between food on the table and medicines paid at the end of the day, to restaurants that do not have money to pay to employees, pensioners who cannot survive at the end of the day, to farmers that the PCP has ignored and forgotten in the Alentejo and the Algarve. For all these it is now the right that must be the voice of hope in this reconstruction. It's not enough high polls and values to walk to power. Our commitment has to be with the Portuguese. And at this last meeting, we have a duty to say that a right-wing majority does not serve as a right-wing majority. Words do not bring food to the table, nor medicines to the Portuguese. The majority of the right has to do, once and for all, the reforms that Portugal needs. in the last years of government of António Costa, we were overcome by Lichtenstein, the Czech Republic and by countries that still had no train line for a few years. What does the right have to say about this? What country do we have to promise those who voted in us and want a voice of hope? Is it the same as always, or is it a different way? on our part, this is very clear: the rupture is to be done now. They put us on the chance to do it for the first time in history. Therefore, or take that opportunity or — shame from us! — we will leave power in the hands of the left and the extreme left for much more years. And the Portuguese won't forgive us for that.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u33	The biggest police in the country is the head of the office of arrive! [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u34	I would ask Mr Ventura, who has already finished his speech, who is silent. We will now enter the second item on the agenda, which is a political debate with the Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, required by the CFP. Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister : Workers and reformers in our country need solutions to their problems, but the government opts not to implement them. The electoral promises that the PS has now made for 2025 contrast with the options the government makes: the government makes promises for 2025, but refuses the solutions that could and should be implemented now. The daily newspaper of hundreds of thousands of workers in our country remains deeply marked by a reality of low wages, precariousness, irregular hours and cuts in rights, which the PS does not want to fight. The national minimum wage for the €705 is low and possible, especially when energy, gas, fuel, food and income prices have already been fired. at the same time as the PS « stations» in €705 the national minimum wage, offers benefits to the patronate, in particular to the great patronage, paying a prize of € 112 for each worker to earn the national minimum wage, a genuine promotion of low wages. Especially when it is known that the majority of workers receiving the minimum wage are workers of the large economic groups of the industry and distribution sectors. The overall valuation of wages is inseparable from three concrete measures: from the increase of the national minimum wage to €850 in a short period of time, and the CFP has even proposed a way to achieve this value in 2023 ; from the end of the expiry of the collective contract, so that also in the private sector wages rise, including average wages; from the valuation of wages in the Public Administration, in particular with wage increases that go beyond inflation values, and with the revision of the single pay table so that there are no more workers with their wages exceeded by the value of the minimum wage. The general increase in wages is a national emergency today, in the present — to solve now and not to kick to 2025! Madam Minister, precariousness is a plague that spreads in our country. Eradicating precariousness is an unacceptable path. It is necessary to ensure stability in bonding, employment and dignity. It is necessary to combat irregular times, ensuring dignified times and time to live, personal and family time. It is necessary to reduce working hours to 35 hours for all workers. These problems, which are felt by hundreds of thousands of workers, have solutions and the CFP has presented them. The Government and the PS make promises for 2025, but refuse to end the precariousness and reject measures for the effective linkage of workers who respond to permanent needs, as they did when, by failing to say, they rejected the proposal of the CFP to combat precariousness, which they had initially approved. One more walk in favor of the patronate! Why does the PS choose to shoot the problem-solving they need a few years from now and can have a response now? Mrs. Minister, pensioners and pensioners will not have an extraordinary increase of €10 because the PS does not want to. The Government has all the necessary instruments to pay pensions with an increase of €10 this month. If the extraordinary increases in recent years have taken place by action and persistence of the PCP, defeating, including, resistances of the PS itself at different times, it is clear today that the PS, which can apply this increase, does not do so because it does not want to. And it was the Prime Minister himself who admitted, in November, that this increase could be made, despite now saying otherwise. Explain to the reformers, Mrs.Minister, that the PS does not want to ensure the increase of €10 already in January, knowing that it could even do so with a Budget in twelveteenths. Mrs Minister, today's situation in the homes, with outbreaks and shortage of professionals, confirms that the government has failed not to listen to the CFP, when we proposed the establishment of permanent professional teams in social security to deal with these situations. The government's option of creating temporary teams and precarious teams for these institutions did not solve the problem; it was a quick thought that did not even serve at the time. The reality has shown the error of this option from the Government. Are they still going to fix this mistake or are they going to insist on it? Finally, Mrs Minister, I am referring to the question of the financing of the COVID measures, which must be ensured by transfers from the State budget. in the State budget for 2021 647 million were registered, but by November 2021 the total impact of the measures was already more than 2 million. What is the value owed to social security?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u36	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u37	I will finish, Mr. President. Has the government already transferred to social security the more than 1400 million who are in this differential or are preparing for the discounts of the workers to be paid by the government itself? [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u38	I ask the services to prepare the electronic framework for the verification of quorum. I now give the floor to Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: We appreciate the schedule of this debate at this very demanding stage of national political life, because it allows us to take stock of the work that has been done over the past few years in relation to social and labour policies. These were years of advance and are, therefore, years of the Socialist Party's pride. After years of cuts, impoverishment and weakening of the social state, the Socialist Party led a majority social and political alternative in the country, which changed austerity for solidarity and fear for hope. And we do so in many areas, with the widespread increase in pensions and wages; the replacement of income, careers and rights; the increase in social benefits and the creation of new benefits, measures that have prevented the dismantling of the social state; the improvement of the conditions and pensions of those who have worked their entire lives; the strengthening of the Labour Conditions Authority; the recovery of the economy; the historical fall of unemployment; growth and convergence. These measures were important in Portugal, but also in Europe, showing that an alternative model was possible to the orthodox and thus have more success and better results. After this first phase, the pandemic came and, with it, the biggest public health crisis in our era and the biggest fall in the economy we have already lived. The social and economic devastation caused by the pandemic was avoided because the Socialist Party was in government, because we act as a community, because we do not accept a society like once, against each other. We had a strong state in the health crisis and a strong state in the protection of income, in order to avoid the social crisis, with hundreds of measures that gave a firm and rapid response, in fact, some of them recovered in the last few days for the weeks of containment: telework, Layoff paid to 100 %, suspension of contributions, extension of social benefits, prophylactic isolation paid, child and grandchildren assistance, support for childcare, support for domestic workers, support for self-employed workers, support for entrepreneurs on behalf of individuals, support for partners, support for the IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity), support for citizens in situations of homeless housing, banking moratoriums, etc. etc. etc. With these and other measures, we managed to preserve jobs, businesses and incomes and, unlike the right response to other crises, we recovered unemployment levels for the best of the pre-pandamy period numbers. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u40	For all of this, options and funding were needed and that is why the budget allocation of social security increased by EUR 5, EUR 2 billion — EUR 5, EUR 2 billion! — between 2015 and last year. We rule to improve people's lives! in the last six years, half a million jobs were created, while the national minimum wage, which the right did not want to increase, rose 32 %. in the last six years, the percentage of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion has fallen from 26, 4 % to 20 %. That is, in just six years, one in four people at risk of poverty left this condition, even in the pandemic year. 700 000 persons were removed from poverty or social exclusion and deprivation was reduced from 9, 6 % to 4, 6 %. All of this has the brand of the Socialist Party. We have heard a lot in this campaign, but what we do not even receive is lessons in social justice, income increase or economic growth promotion. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u41	however, we do not want to stay here. With the success of vaccination, with the effort of everyone, with the effort of Portuguese society and the country, we are able to turn the pandemic page and start a cycle of economic recovery, obviously in a context of still enormous uncertainties and weaknesses. That is why we want to move forward, step forward firmly, serenity and not take a single step back, because this was precisely the way forward we had in the Budget of the State that you have led in this House of the Republic, preventing, among other things: the greatest investment in social and family benefits, plus EUR 7 billion compared to 2015; the increase in pensions; the national minimum wage, which we have already increased; the progressive gratuitousness of daycare for all stages; the guarantee for childhood; the highest ever value for employment and vocational training policies; the expansion of the IRS(tax on the income of individuals) young; the valorization of public administration workers; among these other measures also covered by the Dign Labour Agenda, by the Statute of the National Health Service and by the Staff of the Professionals of the Culture Area. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Portuguese know, they know all this and they don't forget. But this debate is very important, certainly, in order to revive memory, remembering that in politics all achievements are fragile, all achievements are subject to backwardness, of course there is only one way to ensure that we move forward, move forward, move forward to a majority of stability, progress and development — with the vote on the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u42	For an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mrs Minister, I take this debate to bring you two concerns, and the first has to do with the deficit in support of the hotel sector, restoration and leisure, as has been said by several associations. Mr Minister, the Government imposed new restrictive measures as a result of the evolution of the pandemic. The very important question is that the government has announced that it would create support only for companies that would be forced to close. From now on, these companies that are suffering from daily losses, because they have been forced to close, have not yet received support. But there is a new problem: there are other companies in the sector that, although they continue to work, have damage in their turnover above 50 %, but for them the government has not created any support. We are not just talking about short support, as is the case; we are not just talking about support that comes late, as is the case; we are talking about sectors of activity that, despite the losses in their invoicing, have no support at all. It is essential that the government compensates, and quickly, for companies that are forced to close, but it is also important that it compensates companies which, as a result of the restrictions, suffer from invoicing breaks. As the Council of Ministers met today, I ask the Minister if she has any news to give these companies that respond to the problems. There is another problem that I bring you here, Mrs Minister, which is a serious, structural, old problem to which the government has not been able to answer: the lack of labour in some sectors of activity, such as textiles, construction, real estate, footwear or tourism. These are examples of sectors that have been talking about the problem of lack of labour for years, and the government, even though it has repeatedly been urged to resolve it, has done nothing. Here, there are two fundamental aspects and one of them has to do with vocational training. We, PSD, have already called attention to this and even presented solutions. It is essential that the vocational training given takes into account the relationship between supply and demand, and, Madam Minister, this is not what is happening. This is said by companies, business organisations and business sector representatives. Madam Minister, what happens is that we have a phenomenon: on the one hand, there is unemployment, but on the other hand we have companies that cannot get a job. Therefore, the government should have addressed this situation for a long time. This is a structural problem. It may have been aggravated by the pandemic, but it is earlier than it and the government has not taken care of the resolution, which calls into question, especially at this stage, the very necessary recovery of companies, which, in turn, calls into question the maintenance of jobs. There is also another aspect with regard to the lack of labour. In fact, it is essential that there is a policy of attracting qualified people, an immigration policy to attract qualified people to our country and that they are able to respond to the needs of our companies. Mrs Minister, with adequate training and effective immigration policy and being able to respond to the needs of our economy, our businesses, the government solves two serious problems: it will give employment to those who are unemployed and will work for businesses. So, Madam Minister, I ask you this: why has the government come here without giving this answer, so fundamental to helping our companies recover, especially at this difficult stage? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u44	by the Parliamentary Group of the Block of the Left, you have the floor for an intervention Mr José Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Ms. Minister, in the last weeks of December, companies such as Teleperformance, Sitel or Manpower, and also the bank, forced workers to sign in addition to their contracts saying that they were exempt from receiving payment for the increase of telework expenses. We made a law, which came into force on 1 January, which made it imperative to pay the increase in expenses that workers should be doing their job from home. We know that this law, which was not intended for the pandemic moment, was designed for a normal circumstance, is in force. And, even on a proposal from the Left Block, that law provides for the application of the principle of treatment more favourable to standards regulating telework, which is also very important and an example that should be extended to all the standards of the Code. But telework standards are protected by the fundamental principle of the most favourable treatment, which means that there is no addendum, no individual contract, not even a collective contract that has the strength to remove the principles of the law. This is why not only unacceptable as they are, of course, null. Madam Minister, I think it would be very important for the Government to have a word of clarification and that there was also an inspection impulse in this area to ensure that the law we passed in this Parliament, for which the Left Block has committed itself and that it guarantees greater protection for workers in telework, is respected. In fact, we do not accept that companies seek to circumvent the principles of the law, thus weakening the rights of workers for non-application of the law and for a certain impunity that they feel at this level. The truth is that even when we have bold laws—as was, for example, the law on combating precariousness, the special action on the recognition of the employment contract we did in this Parliament, and that we improved in 2018, having emerged following a legislative initiative of citizens and which was known as the "law on combating false green receipts"—use is often the rule and impunity prevails with the passivity of the authorities and, in some circumstances, it is said, with the inconsequence of the government. on the eve of Christmas, the administration of the House of Music dispensed the worker, assistant room, Hugo Veludo. I know that the Socialist Party Member Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro also knows the situation of the House of Music. Now, on the eve of Christmas, the administration of the House of Music fired the spokesperson of the precarious workers of the House of Music, a worker in a situation of false green receipt who has a working situation that the ACT (Working Conditions Authority) has already said it was illegal and the Public Prosecutor has already said it was illegal. The Public Prosecutor brought the House of Music into court because it does not respect the law of work, stating that Hugo Veludo and his colleagues had to have a contract of employment. What did the House of Music administration decide on Christmas Eve? Send Hugo Veludo to the eye of the street! Only that the Administration of the House of Music, Mrs. Minister of Labour, has people who are appointed by the Government, has two administrators who are appointed by the Government. So I would like to ask you the following: does the government recognise this attitude, i.e. a violation by the administration of the Music House, the guidelines of the ACT and the Public Prosecutor's Office? If you don't recognize yourself, what concrete gestures did you take? What we know is that there is a convience of the members appointed by the government for this administration with regard to a complete violation of labour laws and there is this indifference to precarious workers, which are essential. There is no House of Music without workers who are room assistants! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u46	Madam Minister, how do you feel that the announcements of combating precariousness can be credible when concrete gestures that would be relevant to giving the example do not happen? Now, it is about these concrete gestures that I would like to ask the Minister. I believe that giving the example and having a policy that is not only speech, but that translates into gestures, attitudes, decisions, concrete positions, will make all the difference to credible the fight against precariousness and will make all the difference so that our country's laws are not just verb-to-fill, not just written laws, but also laws in practice. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u47	Mr Pedro Morais Soares of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u48	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this debate, we have heard about the increase in the national minimum wage, the Socialist Party's promises for the creation of 100 000 new daycare breaks and the freeness of them, as well as the lack of informal caregivers and the successive attacks that this Government has made to the partners of social dialogue. The CDS defends one of the sectors that has been most affected by the pandemic and constantly forgotten by this government: the third sector, the social sector. As active partners in local development, these entities play a significant role in each of our communities and constitute promoters of territorial cohesion, combating desertification, promoting the sustainability of our territories, where they are based, and creating and ensuring the maintenance of many jobs. Mrs. Minister, the social economy is indispensable to ensure the provision of intergenerational services and also for the future of the country — a country where families have more offers for day care; a country where every elderly person can choose to stay at home and be more and more accompanied or go to a home and find good conditions; a country with continuous care of quality, close and accessible; a country where people with disabilities do not have to leave their lands to find those who care for them. This is what the CDS recognises as indispensable and that it is so often assured by our social institutions. It is urgent to update the cooperation commitment, concluded with the Union of Portuguese Mercy, with the National Confederation of Solidarity Institutions and also with the Union of Portuguese Mutualities, for a fair minimum in order to cover at least the increase in the minimum wage. Mr. Minister, as you know, these entities face many difficulties, which have been aggravated by the pandemic, and many of them are strangled financially. We believe that the third sector, in its capacity, has arrived before and nearer than the state and often where it does not even arrive. The Socialist Party's promises now and as in the past of increasing the national minimum wage do not take into account the urgent and necessary updating of cooperation agreements and, once again, will aggravate the financial situation of third sector entities, suffocating them financially and economically. The IPSS, Ms. Minister, are financially strangled, so it is not only necessary to update this year's agreements, but also necessary and urgent to compensate for the 2020 and 2021 values. We must not forget that the fixed costs of the IPSS have dropped significantly over the past two years — costs with electricity, water and gas and, even with the increase in the minimum wage — and the Government of the Socialist Party continues to ignore this problem. It is urgent to update the agreements concluded with third sector entities. How can social sector institutions comply with their budgets if they do not have the fair minimum of that same update? Oh, my God! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u49	You have the floor for the PAN, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Minister of Labour: Very recently, about 15 days ago, the Government finally approved the National Strategy for Combating Poverty, which took time to see the light of the day. In fact, this pandemic has left more than 2, 3 million people in poverty. We are talking about over 400 000 people who have actually lost their jobs and are therefore unemployed. They are quite loud numbers and are, of course, a reflection of a successive devaluation of this matter by successive governments, obviously not only in recent times, as we well know. however, the existence of such a high percentage of people that, despite their employment in our country, they cannot avoid falling into material deprivation or even poverty should call on the government to make this matter an effective priority. This is not just through the Strategy, it is through effective support mechanisms for families and businesses. There is an undeniable question here: the increase in national minimum wage and the non-increasing of national average wage. in fact, what we are watching today in our country is a flattening and an approximation of these two values. The NAP has nothing against the increase in the national minimum wage, but on the contrary, we have always defended its increase, but we cannot help but create mechanisms to support companies, including the fight against what has happened during the pandemic, such as collective dismissals and the increase in precariousness, under the penalty of not being able to follow the European media and, in Portugal, families continue to work only to pay taxes and not to be able to live with quality of life and, worse yet, to escape from the poverty situation in which they find themselves. Madam Minister, in this regard, we would like to see why there has been no change to the law that stopped collective redundancies and did not get beaten up for greater scrutiny. More: there is one aspect for which the NAP has alerted successively, not having been amended law in this regard, and which has to do with compensation. In other words, in the event of collective dismissal, if the worker wants to challenge his dismissal, he cannot maintain his self-mininization, he has to dispense with it, which leaves him in a situation of greater vulnerability, either because he has a whole work process, or because he has no support and continues in this situation. Mrs Minister, one of the issues I would also like to mention concerns the National Health Service. We cannot continue to ask health professionals to view the shirt and, on the other hand, we report that they face non-compliance with laws in collective labour agreements and that they are removed from their rights, in particular the suspension of the rules on working time or professional content. Thus, we want to realize what is being done to combat this reality and that mechanisms are being adopted to prevent this situation among the workers of the National Health Service. with regard to exceptional support for families, particularly with the closure of schools, we are aware that more than 51 000 forms have already been downloaded for parents to fill in. Mrs. Minister, we would like to know what support is that they are being given or if we are only going to know later, when the companies come to give us that data, which are fundamental to our understanding of the real situation. Madam Minister, in conclusion, the question that I would like to leave concerns with domestic violence. in the context of the State budget, the 10-day leave for victims of domestic violence was approved by the NAP. We know that only eight applications have been granted to victims of domestic violence, so we would like to know what mechanism is failing so that this license is not reaching all the victims.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u51	Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mrs Minister, the truth is that, say the PS what you say, the Government has had every opportunity to make a real increase in wages in general and in particular the national minimum wage for fair and worthy values, but that was not its option. The PS option was to continue to insist on low wages, when, as we know, to value wages is to distribute better the wealth that is produced by all. Thus, the Government's option was to perpetuate the injustice or the sad reality that represents the fact that in our country it is impoverished to work. And more: the PS had all the conditions to change a set of rules that led to the model of low wages, precariousness and long and unregulated working hours, but that was not the option of the government. On the other hand, with regard to working hours, it is recalled that the PS, which now comes to talk about the four-day week of work, is the same PS that led the Greens' proposals for 35 hours of work per week, which led the proposal for 25 days of vacation for all workers and which led the proposal for a mandatory national holiday on Tuesday of Carnival. Now you're here to talk about the four-day workweek? Mrs. Minister, really? Oh, my God! With regard to work precariousness, it is recalled that the PS, while negotiating with the left parties measures to promote the fight against work precariousness, also negotiated with the PSD the extension of the period of trial, when precariousness is more imperious, not to say more cruel. But let us go, Mrs Minister, to the issues which the Greens bring to debate and which concern telework. As we have already said, the Greens believe that we could have gone further into the telework regime, particularly with regard to defending the rights of those who work. Even so, it is absolutely essential that the costs that the worker has to bear for working at home are considered production costs and therefore must be borne by the companies. however, there have been many doubts regarding the law of telework and one such doubt concerns the payment of the meal allowance, a measure which, in fact, the PS refused to include specifically in the law. It happens that these definitions or gaps not only make it difficult to apply the law as they will boost conflicts that could be avoided. Mr Minister, I wonder whether the Government is considering taking some measures quickly, in order to clarify the doubts and indefinitions that are installed in this area. On the other hand, Mrs Minister, we have had the information that during this stage that telework, whenever possible, is mandatory for reasons relating to the pandemic, the Labour Conditions Authority has been in the field to monitor this regime, and still well. What we want to know is whether, in the future, the Act will also be monitoring compliance with the obligations of undertakings with regard to telework, but not only, and above all the rights of those working, in particular the right to privacy and the right of workers not to be disturbed outside their working hours.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u53	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u54	You have the floor, Mr Ventura, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u55	Mr President, Minister : I begin by talking about unemployment numbers. Portugal managed to fall from 6.7 % to 6.1 % in the last quarter. Mr. Prime Minister, the leader of his government, said at the beginning of the year that we would have one of the most significant declines in the unemployment rate, the measures to combat unemployment were hardly implemented. In Spain, unemployment decreased by 20 % and in Portugal by 0, 6 %. How can they live with that? [[Protests by the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Duarte Cordeiro.]] Yes, yes! Make an account of young unemployment and see the difference! The Order of Social Assistants is 700 days behind the legal process. Tell them if this is true or if they're going to put their hands on their heads! [[Protests by the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs.]] Mr. Secretary of State knows it's true! The Order of Social Assistants is 700 days late, so that yesterday the professionals threatened to make a complaint to the Ombudsman. The Minister, who says she does everything, is once again failing in relation to the social workers, of whom she said they were even a loved group. So he agreed to explain why the Order of Social Assistants is 700 days late. Perhaps it would be good to give this explanation here in Parliament today. Since it doesn't give much, I could at least give some today. Finally, Mrs. Minister, as a lawyer, I would like to tell you the following about telework: she announced the payment of expenses related to telework, but regulation and she does not see it! [[Protests by Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, Ana Mendes Godinho.]] Yes, yes! Regulation or see it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u56	You have already exceeded your time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u57	I will finish, Mr. President. Today, thousands of workers, indeed millions, ask how they will include telework-related expenditure. Portugal is one of the few countries of the European Union which has no comprehensive regulation on expenditure arising from telework. Mrs. Minister, tell me if it's true or if it's a lie and explain why, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u58	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u59	For an intervention, you have the floor by the Government, the Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, Ana Mendes Godinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u60	Mr. President, Dear Government colleagues, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen: I will not have time to answer all the questions, but I will somehow try to answer the essentials. First of all, I would like to remind you that we are indeed facing the greatest health crisis of this century. Portugal has been able to recover since 2015 from the dramatic effects of the previous crisis, which began in 2011 when the destinations of the country were led by a right-wing coalition that used as a recipe, as we all well know, the cutting of income, the cutting of pensions, the freezing of wages,... [[Protests from PSD MP Clara Marques Mendes.]] ...which, in fact, was assumed at the time as a country's positioning factor. More: tax increases were also assumed as a form of response that seemed a fatality without any other possible revenue. The results were obvious, but it is good that we have already forgotten. at the time, unemployment reached historical levels and failures as well, besides families were thrown into situations of enormous vulnerability and young people were invited to emigrate. [[CH protests.]] Thank you, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, who tells us that we are in need of human resources, recognizing this serious problem. But a few years ago, our young people were invited to emigrate, to leave.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u61	What about the teachers? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u62	this time, in the face of an unparalleled crisis in 100 years, when a possible social, economic and employment collapse was predicted, we showed that it was possible to give a different response, a collective response. I am referring to a response to support for families, income support, employment support, business support and social sector support. We have created extraordinary support in record time, with all the difficulties we know, but by mobilizing unprecedented resources. We guarantee support for companies to maintain the jobs and income of people in isolation, people with VOCID-19, families with children whose schools have been closed or suspended activities. We guarantee support for independent workers, partners-managers, the most vulnerable people, seeking to bring into the social protection system the numerous atypical situations that we all realize were outside and the discovery. All of this was done through supports that had to be created from zero and implemented in counter-re Clock. Mrs Clara Marques Mendes pointed out that some support was paid late,... [[Protests by PSD Members Afonso Oliveira and Clara Marques Mendes.]] ... but certainly it was not the support created by the PSD. These did not come late because they were not even created during the previous crisis! Therefore, they were never placed on the ground. We have done all of this with responsibility and with an enormous constant spirit of mission, at the service of the country and Portuguese, without ever lowering our arms.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u63	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u64	Do you work? Give it a lot of work. It would have been much easier to tell people that there was no solution, that it was best to emigrate, but that was not our answer. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, we have collectively given completely different answers to the non-existent responses during a previous crisis, achieving results, as it is evident, very different. Only within the framework of the measures implemented by the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, up to now half of the total independent workers in the country had extraordinary support. One in three Portuguese were covered by the extraordinary measures created. 174 000 companies were supported. EUR 4865 million was given in support of social security, always with strengthening of the State budget for this purpose. I would like to tell you, Mrs Diana Ferreira, that this year they were transferred from the Ministry of Finance — hence from the State budget to the social security budget — EUR 1476 million to satisfy and cover extraordinary measures, so that the social security system and its sustainability would not be called into question. Clearly, the results have been different.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u65	What about telework?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u66	this time, the unemployment rate did not reach 18 %, as happened in 2013. this time, the unemployment rate, even in the most difficult months, did not exceed 8, 2 %. In the middle of the pandemic, we were able to recover employment levels in less than a year, when, in the previous crisis, with the PSD government / CDS, the country took five years to recover. currently, unemployment is at historically low levels, even in pandemic situations.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u67	The telework!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u68	We have lowered the unemployment rate, Mr André Ventura, from 12% to 6%. We had 12 % in 2015 and now we have 6 %, 1 %. Today we have a record number of people enrolled in social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u69	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u70	We have more than 700 000 people registered in social security from 2015 onwards. The social state has demonstrated its enormous ability to act, without lowering its arms, when everything else fails.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u71	What about telework? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u72	Instead of penalizing, we supported it. Instead of going back, we take risks. Instead of retreating, we moved forward together, with confidence. Clearly, we assume that these moments we live in have been urgent and emergency, but we also assume the need for acceleration in structural investments. That's what we've assumed, in a permanent way, without lowering our arms.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u73	Mrs. Minister, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u74	We assume the rise of the national minimum wage and assume that we believe in a just, supportive and inclusive social state that creates equal opportunities for citizens and businesses. This is our present and our future of collective construction and permanent dialogues.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u75	You really have to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u76	It's our commitment. with us, you know what you can count on. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u77	Thank you very much, Minister. We will move on to the third point of our agenda, the votes. Having a quorum, we will begin with the Vote Project No. 714 / XIV / 3. a ( presented by the CDS-PP ) — regretting the death of Antonio Badajoz. You have the floor, to proceed to its reading, Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He died on December 24, 2021, 92 years old, the airliner António Badajoz, a legend of the Tauromachy, considered one of the best Portuguese airporters of all time. António Badajoz was the artistic name of António Pereira Cipriano, born in Coruche, on September 22, 1922. Bandarilhereiro, had his alternative at the Plaza de Touros do Campo Pequeno, on 9 September 1949, by the hands of Manuel Segarra. With a sensitivity and a deep knowledge of the bull, António Badajoz was a genius of the bull and influenced generations. He had a long career, went through the big European and American markets and fairs and toured in Macao and Indonesia. He has integrated the branches of Manuel dos Santos, Francisco Mendes, José Júlio, José Trincheira, João Branco Núncio, Luís Miguel da Veiga, José João Zoio, Emídio Pinto, Manuel Jorge de Oliveira, Paulo Caetano, among others. Together with his brother Manuel Badajoz, also a coachman, founded in 1950 the School of Toureio de Coruche, which was to originate the emergence of prestigious airport workers and national killers, including Ricardo Chibanga, José Falcão, Parriita Cigano and Victor Mendes. Antonio Badajoz fired from the arenas in the Small Field on 5 September 1991. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in Permanent Commission, expresses its deep regret at the death of Antonio Badajoz, conveying to his family and friends the most sympathy. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u79	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and CH, votes against the NAP and BE abstention.]] I report that several family members of the deceased António Badajoz are present in the galleries.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u80	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u81	Mrs. Deputy, what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u82	Mr President, it is to announce that the NAP will present a written statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u83	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. The Vote Project No. 715 / XIV / 3 is followed. a ( presented by the CDS-PP ) — I regret the death of João Maria Abrunhosa Sousa. Mr Telmo Correia will please read this draft vote presented by his party. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is of the following content: « I died last December 31, at the age of 82, João Maria Abrunhosa Sousa. Born on August 25, 1939, on the Hill of Cats, Meda Town Hall, João Maria Abrunhosa Sousa studied at the Apostolic School of the Society of Jesus, in Macieira de Cambra, which will influence him throughout his life. Trained in Philosophy, Milan, and in Human Sciences, at the Catholic University of Braga, he was a teacher at the São João de Brito College. In addition to teaching, he also dedicated his professional life to the public service, having been a senior technician in the Federation of Safety and Security Boxes and a superior technician of the Directorate-General of Customs. João Maria Abrunhosa Sousa was a Member for the CDS, the Assembly of the Republic, II and IX Legislatures. at that time, despite serious health problems, he never ceased to exercise his mandate with enormous commitment and brio. He was also head of the office of the State Secretaries of Higher Education, Administrative Reform and School Administration in the Government of the Democratic Alliance, President of the Concelhia Political Commission of the Amateur CDS, mayor of the Amadora City Council, from 1982 to 1986, and also municipal deputy in Amadora, from 2001 to 2005. Having completed his professional life, he was President of the Life and Peace Community and devoted himself entirely to the service of the community and to the support of the most disadvantaged. Confident Christian Democrat, João Maria Abrunhosa Sousa was, since the founding of the party, a man of the CDS and by us all remembered with admiration. by the above, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in Permanent Commission, expresses its deep regret for the death of John Maria Abrunhosa Sousa, conveying to his family, here present, our deepest condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. As you have now said by Ex.a, the daughter and grandchildren of this former Member, who I greet, are present in the galleries. We shall vote on the deliberative part of this draft vote. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the IL was recorded.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, following the votes that we have just voted on, we will keep a minute's silence. The House kept, standing, a minute's silence. We now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1543 / XIV / 3. a ( PAR) — Displacement of the President of the Republic to Mozambique, a diploma to which I referred at the beginning of this meeting. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the IL was recorded.]] Mrs. Members are in favour of paragraphs 8 to 15 of the Journal of the Assembly of the Republic, I Series, concerning plenary meetings of 7, 8, 13, 14, 15, 20, 21 and 22 October 2021. [[Pause.]] There are no objections, they are deemed to be approved. Finally, we have the vote on an opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, which will be read by Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u86	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Court of Lisbon — 3. the Section, Inquiry 63 / 21.5TRLSB, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members decided to issue an opinion authorising the President of the Assembly of the Republic, Eduardo Luís Barreto Ferro Rodrigues, to make written statements as an offence within the framework of the said cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u87	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the opinion. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the IL was recorded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u88	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u89	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u90	Mr President, just to say that I am present, since I cannot register electronically.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-01-06.u91	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. We thus end this meeting of the Standing Committee, which, to which everything indicates, will be the last but never know. There will still be many difficulties ahead until the new Parliament is elected, but we hope that this will indeed be the last meeting. I hope that everyone has a good election campaign and that they have a very happy year, in fact, four very happy years, from here until 2026. Thank you all very much and good luck. [[PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN and PEV applause, stand up.]] The meeting is closed. [[It was 16 hours and 52 minutes.]]
