ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late. We already have a working quorum, so I declare open to the session. [[It was 15 hours and 1 minute.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the galleries to the public. I also ask the Secretary of Bureau Maria da Luz Rosinha to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I am going to announce that they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, the following initiatives: Bill Nos 5 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) and 6 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), downloading the latter to 6. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission ; and Draft Law Nos 41 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which drops to 6. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission, 43 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 54 / XV / 1. a ( BE), 55 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 56 / XV / 1. a ( CH), 57 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) and 58 / XV / 1. a ( IL).
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to start the agenda for this plenary session, the first of which is political declarations. Therefore, for a political declaration on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Fatima Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD brings the issue of decentralization of competence to local authorities, which is on the agenda for the wrong reasons. One of the greatest victories of the April Revolution was the democratic local power. Through the authorities, we have motivated the participation of thousands of men and women who over the years have been hard fighters for improving the quality of life of their citizens. Little by little, they did a lot: they infrastructured, re-qualified and humanized the territory. The proximity management was crucial in maximizing resources and the efficiency of €1 in the management of the city almost always amounted to hundreds of euros in central government management. PSD recognizes all Portuguese autoarchs as their huge value. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on this April anniversary, we welcome the achievements, but we recognize a huge failure. The territorial asymmetries that lead to a young person in Lisbon have much more opportunities than another born in another part of the country. We have seen centralism grow, harming Portugal, particularly in the last 25 years. Centralism is, above all, a socialist brand. We suffer from the contempt of the Socialist Party for the interior of the country, we feel the slightness with which the PS promised and launched works that it suspended and never executed, we assist in reducing the importance of regional leadership, from health to education, and the closure of permanent care in health centers. I know the sadness of the closed blinds in more and more streets and places of Portugal, outside the big cities. What moves us is the defense of the interest of people in the face of delays in the transfer process to municipalities and, in the search of consensus, we offer to collaborate. The joint declaration on decentralization was signed on 18 April 2018. We have presented conditions and reaffirmed the poor ambition of the process advocated by the PS, a process of decentralization of competences that, done with smoothness and transparency, would have everything to be a success, but unfortunately it is failing. The government has not met conditions, nor deadlines, has lost a historic opportunity, has disrespected the autoarchs and has deceived the Portuguese. Decentralisation was intelligent, but it is clear that the government's intention was not a real decentralization. instead of transferring powers and strengthening the freedom to manage territories, the Government is accused of carrying out tasks with insufficient funds. What the Prime Minister called "a cornerstone of state reform" is becoming an achievement. On 1 April, the new skills transfer package in education, health and social action came into force, which was extended to 2023. The municipalities that accepted State transfers were rare without being obliged to do so. This decentralisation, now made automatic and mandatory, placed the Portuguese municipalities in a turbillon on 1 April. If in education it was already bad, in health and social action it is a swamp, with late information and park and with confusion in the rules. Despite the willingness of the autarchs to improve the living conditions of the people and the development of the local economy, it reminds us of the popular saying that it is not possible to « make eggless omelettes», but diplomas forget eggs. Inequalities, blockades and injustices remain. Lack of resources to serve people with quality, lack of dialogue, information and management power. We ask: Why did the Government not extend the Committee on the Monitoring of Decentralisation, which ended on 31 March, rethinking its functions? Why did she devalue the alerts she made as she gathered? Why are you running into dialogue? Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Bad decentralization will contribute to the strengthening of centralism and inequalities. Decentralize without the appropriate allocation of financial resources, with a budget that does not respond to the impact of inflation, is an achievement. With this imposition to tighten the belt to the municipalities, the government divides to reign. Some autarchs give in to the mermaid of socialist seism and others shout at their indignation. A bad decentralization will have as a result worse services, will reinforce the arguments of the centralists and will risk polluting future processes of deconcentration of services, as well as the debate on regionalisation. The municipalities soon realized that, together, they could do more for their territories. Socialist fraud in the process of decentralisation and its invisible hand in the presidency of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities are putting autoarchs against the authorship, weakening the organization. [[PSD applause.]] There are already those who threaten to get out. They talk about creating a G20 or G30 of municipalities and we fear the loss of strength of the National Association of Municipalities. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is urgent to save the process of decentralization, transforming it into a democratic, just and fundamental action for national development. The authorities must be given a real strengthening of their management power: the process of calculating the amounts to be transferred must be fair, clear and understandable to all. Municipalities and communities need to be able to effectively provide better service to populations. Decentralisation, a fundamental component of national development, must constitute, as expected, a genuine reform of the State. I manifest the supreme interest of the PSD in strengthening local power and also its representative associations. We will do all we can to strengthen the competences and tasks at the municipal level, to have a more effective public administration and a real decentralization. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u5	The Bureau shall record three entries for requests for clarification. Madam Member, I ask you if you will answer it together.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u6	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u7	To ask for clarification, then you have the word... [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there's another inscription. I remember the Members and the Members. Members who should register during the speech of the speaker or the speaker. I therefore ask Mrs Fatima Ramos whether she will respond in two blocks of two requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u8	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u9	To request clarification, Mrs Susana Amador of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Fatima Ramos, I thank you for bringing to this House the issues of decentralization and local power, especially because we are also celebrating April 25 and, as you said, the local power is one of the greatest successes of April. in this part of its intervention, we can see ourselves as a whole. However, we can no longer see ourselves when the honourable Member leaves the broad insinuation that the Socialist Party and the Government, with this decentralization and with this reform, have created an achievement. That is not true and, as such, we are going to talk about facts, because politics cannot be insinuation. Politics must be done with facts based on truth. If there is a party that trusts local power is the Socialist Party, Mrs. If there was a party that, over the past six years, restored the autonomy of local power, deepened the powers of local authorities and increased the financial transfers it was the Socialist Party. [[PSD laughter.]] in the last five years, there has been an increase of EUR 636 million in transfers to local power. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If there was a party that increased the participation of local authorities in tax revenue, raising Portugal on the average of the European Union, it was the Socialist Party, with the law of local finances, with the creation of tax shares, notably in VAT ( value added tax ). Therefore, Mrs. Member, it is good to remember when this autonomy was removed, when the rights of the autarchs with the law of cabment and commitments were compressed: in the time of mismemorial memory of Pedro Passos Coelho. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] It is good to remember that this decentralization of competence is in fact the reform that will change the paradigm of the excessive centralisation of Portugal. It is a complex, comprehensive and difficult reform. Of course it is! It is also a reform with political courage that has never failed the PS or Prime Minister António Costa because we are a reformist party. [[Mr André Ventura's laughs.]] This reform, like fear, is a river that passes through wet. We have to cross this river, Mrs. Member, and we have to believe that the paradigm shift will be worth it. I only tell you that since April we have: in education, 100 %; in housing, 100 %, already with the creation of urban rental and revitalization programmes;...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u12	... in civil protection, 100 %; in logging, 100 %. And the same in proximity police, fire safety, justice. In other words, universalisation is happening, Mrs Deputies, and there is the compromise — already reflected in Article 82. the State Budget—a mechanism that will adjust and allow the updating of money according to the uncertainty of the moment and agility.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u13	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u14	I conclude, Mr. President. It is a budget that does not undermine the environment and which reinforces the Financing Fund for Decentralisation with EUR 1 billion. Is this Fund important or not? Is it important, or not, the agility that he brings us? Is it important, or not, that in social action, education, housing and health we can, in fact, change the paradigm and have more and better local power? We're all counting on that design! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u15	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind everyone that we have four points on today's agenda. To request clarification, Mr Rui Paulo Sousa, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Members of Parliament, Mrs Fatima Ramos, Law No 50 / 2018 has not passed a good intention to decentralise. We agree with decentralization, but we always have a « but ». Values were not defined for the various decentralized areas and did not achieve consensus in the municipalities to take on the competences. It would be difficult to achieve it, but the main problem was always the financial part, not the form.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u17	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u18	PSD knows that the accounts are made on the basis of estimates and averages of recent years. Now, as they have not spent in recent years, they have not accounted for the current financial package.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u19	No more!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u20	Less than 40% of the municipalities agreed to assume the competences of decentralization, in a clear demonstration that it is a mere deresponsibility of the government. Some camera presidents have called Law No. 50 / 2018 no more than a task schedule. This process could have been perfect to decentralize Lisbon, so that in its lands the chambers had autonomy to decide on the problem of people, but, no, it was pure ideology. Are we walking to regionalization? Is the PSD in favour of regionalization or is it next to the arrival, in a decentralisation that will not create more bodies, offices, tachos or tachos? The questions remain. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u21	I thank you, Mr Deputy, even for your time management. In reply, Mrs Fatima Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u22	Mr President, I welcome Mrs Susana Amador and Mr Rui Paulo Sousa, whom I thank for having asked questions. With regard to Mrs Susana Amador, being an author like me, I understand that she is nervous and anxious, because, when we hear the positions of our colleagues in the field, we find that things are not going well. [[PSD applause.]] The honourable Member has conveyed to us the impression that we are in a wonderful country, in a decentralization country, where things are developing very well. However, I recall that the Joint Declaration on Decentralisation itself, signed in 2018, assumed the problem of a very centralizing State as well as a set of programmes and commitments pointing to: gradualism ; the insistence that the Financing Fund for Decentralisation should be included in the State budgets for 2019, 2020 and 2021 ; the importance of committee meetings to discuss the matter. Unfortunately, when listening to the authors, we conclude that they complain about the lack of dialogue and the lack of compliance with the commitments so well announced by the Socialist Party and that they have given such good headlines. In the background, you feel a little humiliated, Madam Member, because you feel that you are not being respected. I understand you, Mrs. Member, because if you were on their role, I would also feel very distressed.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u23	It's not easy!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u24	More: when she tries to blame the PSD for all of this centralism that we have in our country, she forgets that, in the last 27 years, the PSD has ruled for seven years,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u25	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u26	...four of them fulfilling the Memorandum of the Troika that you negotiated. [[PSD applause.]] Therefore, Mrs Deputy, if we have a centralist country, I take the blame that the PSD also has, but who has much more to blame for seeing the interior as we see, of seeing the country as it is, with much less development and much more unbalanced, is undoubtedly the Socialist Party. [[PSD applause.]] Mr President, I would like to tell you two things. The first, in relation to the conditions and the period of instability that we are living and that we feel that our authorities are living, is that we agree perfectly. As regards other cases, the PSD is in favour of decentralization, deconcentration of services and agrees, as the Government has promised, that there is a clear and broad debate on regionalisation. We think that there must be a debate, but my fear—and now I am speaking also on my own behalf—is that these processes, going wrong, i.e. distorting the working capacity of the autarchs who, without resources, will not be able to satisfy the needs of their populations, can value more those who are centralists, who do not want to deconcentrate services and who are in favour of everything that comes out of Lisbon.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u28	For us, it is essential to have a more balanced country, which develops in its entirety. Enough of our abandoned and unproductive territory. [[That's enough!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u29	Enough of our abandoned territory! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u30	To request clarification on behalf of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva has now spoken.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u31	Mr President, Mrs Fatima Ramos, I would like to thank you for the subject you brought us and for your intervention, because we share the content of it, especially in the diagnosis you make, and because you are very pleased with the tone you made it and the way you did it — for the ferocity, for the use of it, for the assertiveness that we like! — because it was directed to a party in this case to a PS government, which has had a lot of courage to reform the country. The question I have to ask you is this: can we count on the PSD to maintain this tone, this form, this utility? Or are we going to have to count, from time to time, on some surprises like the one in which, not long ago, we arrived here and we saw the results of some arrangements made under the table in relation to the elections for the CCDRs (coordination and regional development committees)? So we would like to know what PSD we can count on, until there comes the question of decentralization and we share the idea that centralism is a major problem in this country. Centralism is an evil, but it is a evil that is the son of the central block. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u32	For a final request for clarification, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u33	Mr President, I would like to congratulate Mrs Fatima Ramos on the question she brought to the discussion on the process of transfer of competence. This process confirms, in fact, that we are not faced with any decentralisation, but rather with a transfer of charges to the authorities. In fact, this was a question we raised right from the start. When this discussion began in the Assembly of the Republic, we said that in relation to the elements necessary for the definition of competences, in a genuine process of transfer of competences to the authorities, there was no such basis, nor was there any identification of the means and conditions for the exercise of these powers by the authorities. The PCP has drawn attention to this element from the beginning. We are faced with a deep deresponsibility on the part of the Government in relation to essential matters, constitutional rights, health issues, education, social action and culture. At one time, the Government sought to de-responsibility by transferring these charges to the authorities without being assured the means for the exercise of these same powers. This is why it is natural that the opposition from the municipalities on this matter will grow. Madam Member, the CFP has not agreed on this issue today. We remember that it was the PSD that gave the PS the hand for this to happen!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u34	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u35	The PS was unable to approve this competence transfer process alone.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u36	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u37	This is the bottom line: the PSD is as responsible as the PS for what is happening right now.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u38	You were in support of the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u39	The overwhelming majority of municipalities did not accept the competences in the area of health and, in the area of education, there are numerous problems that continue to solve. But it wasn't for lack of warning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. It is because of a political option of PS and PSD that this is happening. So this is a first question on which the PSD has to have a word to say, since it is as responsible as the PS. The second question I would like to raise concerns the following: there is no real decentralization in our country without the creation of administrative regions. Why is it that the PSD, together with the PS, has postponed this process, which is foreseen in our Constitution? This would, indeed, allow regional development, the elimination of asymmetries and, as he pointed out, there was, in an organized manner, a more coherent and less centralist state. But as far as this is concerned, the PSD has always been refused. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u40	In reply, Mrs Fatima Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u41	Mr President, I am grateful for the comments and questions made by Mr Rodrigo Saraiva and Mrs Paula Santos. My answer is addressed to Mrs Paula Santos, by the following: First of all, Mrs Deputies, the PSD is a very responsible party that believes in the capacity of local power. PSD is a party that thinks that the closer we are to the population, the better and more efficiently we manage. People in local power have a great sense of mission and are able to perform the best service. Feeling that this process was being dragged by the government, that never again reached a consensus with the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, we in the PSD, which is a responsible party, although at the time we did not support the government — contrary to you, who supported it! -,... [[All right!]] [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u42	... thinking about the autoarchs and populations, thinking that we could make our contribution so that the work would be done in the right way and with more efficiency, we, yes, gave the hand.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u43	Well, they did! And they're responsible for everything that's happening right now!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u44	We gave the hand and put conditions in the agreement that was concluded and that I have already read. Unfortunately, the Socialist Party speaks, begs and then fails to meet the conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u45	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u46	But we continue with our sense of responsibility and not with those of you who supported the government, but then criticized the measures of the government itself. [[PSD applause.]] They were critical, but then they came here and approved everything. And they supported the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u47	What you're criticizing was the PSD you approved!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u48	They supported a government that had not won the elections. I am saying again: we believe in local power, decentralization, deconcentration of powers, in the autarchs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u49	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u50	Mr. Rodrigo Saraiva, I want to tell you that we are indeed a party that started in local power. Good men and good women, full of ambition for their lands, who have infrastructured, humanized and given them what was basic: water, sanitation, infrastructure, education. People who went far beyond their obligations, good people. These people are at the base of the PSD. We are a plural, diverse party, as you know, and, being here, the autoarchs and people in my country can be sure that, both I and my PSD colleagues, we will always defend this local power and the people who are on the ground, because we want the best for Portugal. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u51	It is proven that a centralist policy does not bring development to Portugal. [[PSD applause.]] Portugal is getting worse, in the tail of Europe, as you have mentioned. We have to reverse this process quickly, because, frankly, I am tired of seeing abandoned territory, unproductive territory, territory from which people have to flee, coming to Lisbon, because this is the only place where the young people of my land have some opportunity to live. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u52	For a political declaration, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mrs Rita Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are here today, only two days after the commemorations of the April Revolution, which, as has been said and repeated in this House, with so much solemnity, was the revolution which, that morning, promised a spring of a free country and a new time. But the time passed and the spring promised quickly gave rise to a hot and poorly prosperous summer, initially marked by the PreC (Revolutionary Process in Course), by nationalizations and later by the loss of sovereignty in the face of Brussels or by the successive bankruptcys to which the country was condemned. After this summer, at a peak, autumn gave rise to a winter that does not result from any environmental crisis or global warming. I speak of the « demographic winter», the one that advances in a pandemic manner and which, gallopingly, crushes the pillars of our society, which are the family, the homeland, Europe, compromising our future. The decline in births in Portuguese maternity is the real structural challenge for the sustainability of our country, for the preservation of our people, for the preservation of our culture and our national identity. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The Government programme tells us that we can expect a sincere commitment to good governance, which aims to make Portugal grow, and we could look at several indicators and at the parameters defined by those who dare to promise certain accounts, but who often interpret numbers in their own way and how it works. However, it is enough for us to stop at the demographic challenge to realize that the socialist accounts are not so true. It is that in Portugal, in five decades, the number of births has fallen to less than half and, currently, are more people who die than those who are born. The tragedy worsened so that last year we reached the minimum value of births ever recorded in the history of Portugal. Well if they try to mix concepts like those of the total, natural, migratory population jumps, but, turn around they want to give, the break of birth is the real scourge of national accounts and the real magnifying that shows a society that has no strategic view of root capable of thinking the country in the medium and long term. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The truth, ladies. Members, it is that this drama shows a society where asymmetries between the coast and the interior are accentuated every day, particularly in non-urban areas. This scourge reveals a society where young people cannot establish themselves as independent adults and a society where these same young people are pushed into emigration because, in our country, we can only expect precarious working conditions, unpaid internships or queues at the door of the employment centre.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u54	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u55	This is a society where a young couple cannot access housing credits and is subject, month after month, to renting a house that is not really theirs, which represents a returnless investment that obliges us, young people, to postpone our dreams, such as to be a family and have children. It turns out that 30% of fertile couples have no children, but they liked to have and dream about it. However, they point out as the main obstacle, an inaccessible obstacle, the financial difficulties and the precarious work to which they are subject.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u56	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u57	Yes, precarious work! It is necessary to recognize the courage that each father and mother have in bringing a life to the world, especially in a country where more than 2000 women did not renew the employment contract in 2020 only because they were pregnant. [[Congrats from the CH.]] We have five. the lowest birth rate in the European Union and one of the lowest in the world. These data should embarrass the whole political class and this House. [[Congrats from the CH.]] We had not had the Socialist governments on the motto of the nation for 20 years and we could even believe in the current Government Programme and in the State Budget, which we will discuss, who say, and I quote, "to build a true family policy that aims to improve demographic prospects" and even — see! — « create conditions for people to develop their life plans». They say our rulers that the Budget we are going to discuss is the real family-centred budget. And why, when it comes to my party, do you like to measure the ideas to the palms or by the number of pages, I ask: What is the centrality of the family for this government? It is that, in a document with 375 pages, we can read the words "family" or "family" only 30 times. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is not conceivable that a true family policy does not recognize the family as the base cell and pillar of society. It must be a policy that promotes family, protects and dignity, and defends human life, recognizing its dignity, at any stage and in any circumstance. And it is not necessary to mention the ideological attacks on the value of the family by a paternalist state, which seeks to isolate the citizen in its individuality. We do not have to go that way to demonstrate that in practice the public policies of recent years are an attack on Portuguese families. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, when we become a family and choose to have children or not, the Portuguese do not want only €50 per month subsidies and socialist cliently subsidies. Let us see : what are all these subsidies and this subsidiarity machine worth if they continue to increase indirect taxes and perpetuate this gymnastics of those who take out here and put there, which, in fact, continues to victimize the same ones as ever, the Portuguese taxpayers? [[Congrats from the CH.]] Finally, I tell you that when you create a family, the Portuguese look at their salaries and face a fiscal asphyxiation, look at fuel prices and look at their shopping cart, which is getting more and more empty, and the account gets higher and higher. What I'm asking you to do is change the course. On behalf of the young people, I ask you to bet on a policy of family support and the culture of life, which specifically supports housing, which combats the precariousness of young employment and which combats all attacks on women and mothers, either from a wage point of view or from a career point of view. It is time to say 'approach' to those who seek to solve the problem of birth using immigration, because this is only the assisted suicide of our country. It's time to reemerge Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH, with Members standing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u58	For a political statement on behalf of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The right time to start and reform is at the beginning of the legislatures, as is the case at this particular time. This if the government party has a reformist vocation, something which unfortunately the PS has shown has not, contrary to what happened in other phases of its history, already far in time. The current Socialist Party exchanges the reformist momentum for inertia, pushes the problems with the belly and thinks that everything will be resolved, in some way or another, by simply dragging the situation. Even with the stagnant country, even with public services — services to the public! — with failures and degradation, even with young people convicted of emigration, even with Portugal to maintain one of the largest public debt in the world. Knowing this, however, the Liberal Initiative has launched the challenge that at this beginning of the legislature, which appears to be lasting and stable, the majority—either that which supports the government, or that which comes from the sum of the two major parties—is motivated and committed to making reforms. Some who have already spoken so much, some who have already defended so much, some in which they have already converged in the need and solution to quickly diverge because it is good to leave everything in it. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not want unanimity. In the Liberal Initiative we do not like unanimity, but we want to contribute to reformist consensus in this Parliament, which is the House of Democracy. There are urgent and unacceptable reforms in health, education, justice or social security, but I am talking to you about a reform that is as essential as these and that often takes less space in the news, which does not make it less urgent or less necessary. I'm talking about reforming the electoral system. We must bring Portugal closer to European standards. We need to bring the voters closer together. We must mobilize younger generations, not for abstention, but for participation. We have a duty to tell our compatriots who live abroad that they are not Portuguese second. This reform of the electoral system has been postponed legislation after the legislature and, despite what I say is increasingly obvious, changes are taking place here too. Let the conveniences of partycracy be abandoned and give priority to the relevance of democracy. The current system doesn't work. And why? Because it distorts popular will, because it promotes abstention, because in practice the distribution of mandates by the districts is no longer proportional and because, as we have seen recently, it leaves more than 700 000 Portuguese voters without effective representation in this House. This does not count those who, on election day, have already followed up to a second or third option. It is no longer just a problem of electoral participation, it is a problem of quality of our democracy. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if we want a country with less asymmetries, we have to deal with this problem ahead. Not to make more speeches, but to find solutions that cannot be postponed. We need an electoral system that brings more citizens to democracy, not a system that keeps them away from democratic life. We need an electoral system that does not provide a single Portuguese for participation in our destiny as a community. The diagnosis is done. The time has come to find the solution and to have the political courage to break taboos, putting it into practice. The Liberal Initiative included in its electoral programme the creation of a system with uninominal circles added to a circle of compensation. This is our starting point. This is the challenge we put to the government party and the other parliamentary groups, to increase the representativeness of this House, to strengthen the link between voters and voters, to increase the participation of young people in politics, so that no Portuguese will feel excluded from electoral participation—what is the portion of the country or the world he has chosen to live, whatever his political inclination—and so that no vote will be useless again. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the conjugation of these circles, a system that has already been tested in other countries with democracies, at least as solid as ours, presents virtues for the democratic health of the country and which must be considered. But if you fear the uninominals you don't understand that you don't advance with the clearing circle. Only the addition of the clearing circle would be a democratic advance that no one could refuse. Let us see: the uninominal circles have the great virtue of increasing the responsibility of each electorate to their voters. It is a solution that will increase the quality of the representatives of the people, adding more merit in the choice of candidates. The current system thus encourages traditional parties to choose who is worth 500 votes in their party instead of choosing who is worth 5000 votes in the community. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the clearing circle has several virtues. It makes it possible to reduce the wasted votes, to make it possible for a Parliament to be more representative of the will of the Portuguese and to facilitate the increase in party supply. Don't be afraid of pluralism. This solution is essential to reduce abstention, which has already reached worrying levels in Portugal, as well as the white and void votes, and let me highlight the white votes, which fell very much in the election of 30 January from 130 000 to 63 000. The clearing circle is something that no one can say has ever been tested because we know it exists in Portugal, successfully, specifically in the Autonomous Region of the Azores. It's not a distant reality. It exists in Portugal, it is tested and it is just doing the same. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, there are also reasons for the electoral process that keep voters away from the polls. We are sure that in this Parliament we will find solutions to these problems, but do not confuse the process with the system today. The challenge is at stake. We're going to work on this reform, without excuses, without waiting any longer, without wasting time. It is a requirement of adult citizenship, conscious and responsible. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u60	The Bureau shall record five entries for requests for clarification to the honourable Member. I assume you will respond in blocks of three and two. Is it correct?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u61	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u62	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the Socialist Party has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva, thank you very much for your political statement. I have two previous notes to make. First of all, it is a bit strange to extend your hand to the negotiation and to the opening of the "heading" to which you propose this start of conversation. Anyway, it's not the nicest way, but we're available. He then chose a bad example, because if there is a matter in which, over the past four years and even before, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has given evidence of having the ability to change the electoral system in important respects, it is precisely this matter, with the advance vote on mobility—that allows voters to exercise their voting right at the end of the week before the elections, when they are absent on their own day—the automatic identification abroad, the dematerialization of procedures, the end of the voter card. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u64	That's the process!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u65	It is true, not everything, it is not the electoral system, but they are very important aspects and that have increased participation. We have many more people today to vote, precisely because they have simpler mechanisms to do so. Allow me, too, a little precision, before we go to the top of the matter: the issue of the electoral system is in the electoral programmes of the Socialist Party since the end of the 1990s.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u66	He's coming!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u67	In fact, it was in the 1997 constitutional review that the possibility was introduced to do precisely what the Liberal Initiative suggests, which is nothing more than what the Socialist Party has proposed since 1998 : a German type model, which combines uninominal candidate circles with a clearing circle or with circles that guarantee proportionality. You're pointing to the wrong target! Who has consistently said that it does not give the necessary votes for these two-thirds, because it always requires a reduction in the number of Members — which would harm proportionality, reduce the pluralism of this Parliament and make representation of the interior difficult — has been the Social Democratic Party, which has failed the call and has not participated in this debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And we have always said that we will not sacrifice the improvement of quality in aspects to the detriment of others. We will not harm the representation of the interior or the autonomous regions and will not harm pluralism by reducing the number of Members, which is unfortunately a little bit to flee to anti-party and anti-institutional populism, for which we will not contribute. To conclude, in relation to the concrete issues it raises, in the previous legislature there was a working group to consolidate electoral legislation—it is already quite important, because it systematizes and facilitates its reading—and one of the aspects it referred to is precisely the matrix of the Socialist Party's proposal for many years ago. I do not know whether we will be able to bring together the necessary two-thirds majority, but on our part, there is availability for these issues of reform of the electoral system and, above all, for a major and major urgency, which is to ensure a change in the Elections Act so that what happened last January, in relation to citizens living abroad, does not happen again. The law must be clear, it must overcome the difficulties observed regarding the way in which citizens living abroad vote, to ensure that they continue to vote on the same scale and that we can increase that participation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That, of course, is our first priority, but in everything else you have mentioned, it has the openness and availability of the Socialist Party for this debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u68	Mr André Coelho Lima, from the PSD, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I particularly welcome Mr Rodrigo Saraiva, congratulating him on his speech. I am not going to ask you any questions, because, in fact, the intervention you made was more proclamational than with concrete suggestions, i.e., it was a challenge to reflect the whole Parliament. in this sense, I cannot but begin with the intervention I just heard from the Socialist Party, in which it was said that the PSD never showed a willingness to align in reforms of the electoral system. After stressing this, I laugh. And I do so for two reasons: firstly, because you have been in power for a long time now I don't know how many years and nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u70	Two thirds!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u71	Secondly, this party presented, still last year—then the elections came and so! — a concrete proposal, public reform of the electoral system. We have put forward a proposal for reform of the electoral system, not cosmetic amendments, because it is a reform from above to below that the country needs, not what you are trying to do, to look like they are doing electoral reforms. [[PSD applause.]] As for the points of contact, the approach between electors and voters, I say: no doubt! I leave him to this note: if the Hondt method is in the Constitution as the one that determines the number of elected Members, he is in the law, and not in the Constitution, as by defining the number of Members per electoral circle, which is — I must say — shocking. This means that, proportional to its population, Lisbon, which is the largest electoral circle, has more Members, while Portalegre, which is the smallest circle, has fewer Members. This, yes, is shocking and can be changed without constitutional review. For this they count on the PSD, it is already stated! Then, as far as the disposal of the waste of votes is concerned, I am replying: I am sure, too, Mr President. Moreover, in the last elections, the CDS-PP, which had 89 000 voters, is not in Parliament, and the Free, with 71,000 voters, is represented here. [[PSD applause.]] It is a commitment and an obligation for all of us not to stretch the rope, not to say what some have failed or ceased to fail, but, rather, in this mandate, which is expected to be stable, we all take on — and I say it back to the Socialist Party — the commitment to make a genuine reform of the electoral system. For this, they count on the PSD. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u72	Mr Rui Tavares, from the Free Party, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u73	Mr President, Mr André Coelho Lima, he referred to the differential of votes between the Free and the CDS and the fact that the CDS is not represented here, while the Free is.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u74	I'd trade!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u75	The first party to recognize the injustice that CDS voters must have felt was precisely the Free, but the first party to be able to resolve this matter was the PSD, not the Free.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u76	All right! [[Protests from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u77	It is certainly not because of the Free that the CDS is not here and that the Free is. In fact, there is injustice and asymmetry in the electoral system in Portugal, but when I hear the right, both in the PSD and in the IL, to proclaim their love for reforms, I always remember the advice of creative writing classes: the best way to demonstrate love is even by practice, it is not only to take 4 minutes, in a 6-minute speech, to say that you like reforms very much. We have to tell you which reforms are, or are not, in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u78	You have to talk to the PS, it's not for us!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u79	In the field of representation, the IL offers us a solution to a really existing problem. The national circle of compensation greatly reduces the problem of votes called 'lost' and, in this matter, the Free is with exactly the same opposition. It is not clear what is the problem that the uninominal circle solves. In the 17th or 18th centuries it was very important that each city, far from the capital of the kingdom, had its representative in the Courts. It's not like that today. Having the idea that each circle must have a representative and assume itself in it, when there are already autarchs to defend the interests of each circle, is a twist to the idea of what is necessary for representation in the 21st century. There is a need for democracy on a number of scales, but I do not see the Liberal Initiative taking a position once and for all - it may be that it will do so today, following this request for clarification - in relation to which there would indeed be a problem of representation on the middle scale. After all, is the Liberal Initiative in favour of regionalization or is it not in favour of regionalisation? If they like reforms, they say about one that has been waiting for decades, that would bring us closer to other European countries and that, apparently, the Liberal Initiative aims to "strike to the corner" until we see the map. Let us say: in principle, do you think there must be an intermediate-scale democracy in Portugal? Yes or no? Are you in favour of regionalisation? Yes or no? This is a real issue that needs to be clarified and a 'yes' or a 'no' will only be enough for this to happen.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u80	To reply, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u81	Mr President, whenever there are political statements—at any plenary meeting, but above all in these with political statements, until you look at them in a different way, with less responsibility than today—I am committed to making the effort to listen to, in full, to the interventions that are made, especially if you are prepared to request clarifications. We had an example today: I listened very carefully to the PSD political statement, because it was an issue that I was interested in and on which I could raise a question. But what happened to me often happened when I looked at these plenary sessions as a spectator: often it seems that questions come pre-formatted or that they ask questions only because yes, we have not heard the intervention that has been made. Starting with the answer to Mr Delgado Alves, whom I thank for the questions, I remember that, even at the end of my speech, said the following: we do not confuse the process with the system. Today I was worried about talking about the system, but Mr Delgado Alves soon said a lot about the proceedings. If you want to talk about the process, I will return the questions to you: as for ending the day of reflection, are we ready for that? Do we have your deal?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u82	Kind of.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u83	As for the end of the fixed schedule, which requires that it be at that time, are they available for that?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u84	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u85	And to end the obligation to be on a specific day, or in those days, are they available?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u86	Medium!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u87	That's questions! When we want to « hit balls», we can also always return some to others. With regard to what I said about the Socialist Party's consistency with the proposal for a reform of the electoral system, you know that is not true. in the electoral programmes they had the proposal, in others, then they dropped it. Sometimes, as they had to make some agreements, in the days of management, they let her fall. It's always been like this.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u88	We've always had the same proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u89	It wasn't always linear!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u90	It was always the same, 30 years ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u91	In reply to Mr Coelho Lima, I made concrete suggestions about the electoral system, which was the theme that brought the debate, especially about the circle of compensation, beyond the uninominal circles. But this starts to be interesting, because another party comes, not PS or PSD, talking about a topic that is not exclusive to PS or PSD and we're all watching the usual movie, with PS and PSD, in I know what you did last summer, talking to each other and not solving the country's problems. Resuming, in response to requests for clarification from the PS and PSD, the agreement is positively signed so that there will be an amendment to the electoral system in this legislature and the clearing circle will be introduced, which is essential to end the problems of existing representation. With regard to what Mr Tavares asked — which I think was more of a need to try to show some discord, trying to deviate from the matter — the principle is that of decentralization, to which we are entirely in favour. I repeat, we are totally in favour, so that there is no doubt.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u92	What about regionalization?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u93	If you want to talk about an intermediate phase of power... there are already the authorities, the local power, don't come now... what do you want? Is it just to create a double layer? Oh, my God! On regionalization, we have already said — and well! — that is to debate over time. It is not to come up with pre-formatted and negotiated maps outside this House and the Portuguese, it is to be clear what skills are, and it is not just competences without the money attached! It has to come all very clear, and, when that is the case, all parties must take their position, not just the Liberal Initiative. If we are in favour only because, then, we are deceived and led by others, with negotiations made under the table, and in the end, we are complicit in a problem that has been created, but which should not have been. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u94	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr José Moura Soeiro, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u95	Mr President, Mr. Rodrigo Saraiva, on whether there are any improvements to be made in the electoral system, I would reply: I am sure! In particular, in terms of proportionality of mandates. Regarding the votes expressed, we know that there is a distortion that harms the smaller parties and benefits the larger parties, distorting the distribution of mandates in this House. What we do not think is acceptable is to propose, with one hand, that this proportionality be improved, through a circle of compensation, such as what exists in the Azores, as he said, at the same time that, with the other hand, it is proposed to make this proportional representation worse, either by reducing the number of Members, or by means of uninominal circles. [[IL protests.]] The reduction in the number of Members has been a PSD mantra and if the central bloc is to make an amendment, it will certainly be in that direction. Uninominal circles are also a way of distorting proportionality, which is not compensated with such a circle of compensation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u96	Just stay Lisbon and Porto!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u97	In fact, it comes from a strange idea that a community could be represented by a Member, as if it were not necessarily more than all the political communities that are represented.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u98	Look at the country! See the rest of the country!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u99	Secondly, it is also a way of stressing the fulranisation of policy, of supporting programmes. It is a vision of the policy in which there are only individual identities and individual legitimacys. On the contrary, we believe that the policy that interests is a collective and programmatic project. Therefore, surely, the Left Block is available to improve proportionality and to make this debate about the clearing circle. However, we are not available for this individualist and liberal vision, according to which electoral policy would be transformed into a kind of spectacle of individual campaigns, when, for us, the democratic policy that counts and matters is that of collective mediation and the representation of programmes, political synthesis, class positions, political causes. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u100	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Alma Rivera of the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, first of all, I begin by congratulating Mr Rodrigo Saraiva. On the electoral system, its shortcomings and possible solutions, the CFP argues that there are fundamental principles and objectives that must be respected and followed and that must preside over decisions and changes. For the CFP, the defence of proportionality is the fundamental issue, since it is only thus ensured the representative plurality of the different sensibilities that exist in the country. The more proportional, the more representative of the will of voters will be and, to this extent, everything that contradicts these principles must be viewed as negative. As for the main ideas that the Liberal Initiative brings to us on this subject, we have a differentiated reflection for each one. As far as uninominal circles are concerned, we believe that they support ideas, personalize them and, in practice, aggravate a problem that has been mentioned and that is happening today, which is the waste of votes and intentions. The approach between electors and voters is not resolved, in our view, with this change to the electoral system, but rather with a proximity that is built by the way the electors exercise their mandate and by the identification that the voters make of their interests in this representation exercise. That is how the meaning of true representation is built. With regard to the clearing circle, we believe that it deserves weighting, insofar as it takes advantage of the wills that have been expressed in vote and different sensibilities. Even with regard to Portuguese voting abroad, within and outside the European Union, it is certainly necessary to ensure that communities have the possibility of electing and that this possibility corresponds to a feeling of representation, which implies changes, for example by facilitating the face-to-face vote on the number of tables available for the exercise of that right. But the question that we would like to put to the Liberal Initiative, in view of the concerns which you have raised here, is whether you do not consider that the transformation of the legislative elections to the 230 Members in election for the Prime Minister makes the electoral and secondary system absolutely irrelevant, to a large extent, the candidates each electoral circle has and presents. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u102	To reply, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u103	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr José Soeiro and Mrs Alma Rivera, as well as all those who have made requests for clarification. There have been many contributions, there are concordances and disagreements, and it is this debate that can find solutions. With regard to Mr Soeiro's intervention, which in some parts coincides with Mrs Alma Rivera's questions, we believe that there are no perfect systems and therefore they all have virtues and defects. It is in this balance that we will then have to make choices and move on. Each party has to make its choices and I live perfectly well with differences and disagreements. In my speech, I did not fully address all the virtues and defects of the two solutions I spoke about, until I can add, for example, a virtue. I understand the concerns that bring about the uninominal circles, but what I have to say is this: if you want to add to what only the clearing circle exists, we are entirely in favour; if someone wants to deal with only uninominal circles, our answer is no. We accept uninominal circles with the clearing circle or, then, the clearing circle enters our plurinominal circle system. This is our position, and it is very clear. Only uninominal circles, we thought not to want, because of the defects of that solution. But the uninominal circles bring a virtue, which is to allow, for example, our system to open this House to independent applications. This is one of the virtues of the introduction of uninominal circles into our political system and therefore I would also like to leave this note. It is interesting that, too on this subject, the Left Block — as we would expect — sees a class struggle in this regard. It's normal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u104	You don't represent a class? You represent a class!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u105	With regard to Mrs Alma Rivera's question, I have already answered: only circle of compensation, yes; only uninominal circles, no. With regard to the last question, we share the same concern. I believe that it is also a matter of political literature, democratic literature and that people obviously have to know. We, social communication and teachers in schools, all, have the responsibility to explain to the people who are electing, in the first instance, their representatives and not directly the Prime Minister. So that's what we agree on. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u106	For a political declaration on behalf of the CFP, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On Sunday they will spend more than 130 years on the first 1. that of May, International Workers' Day, whose importance and meaning remain deeply present and gain special relevance in the face of the political, economic and social moment we live and the risks of backwardness in labor and social rights that are at stake. Low wages, precariousness, wild and unregulated times are inevitable problems that workers, men and women in our country face on a daily basis. The overall increase in wages assumes a national emergency dimension, not only on the question of rising living conditions, social justice, better distribution of wealth, of structural struggle against poverty that persists between more than 10 % of workers, but also to face the brutal increase in the cost of living that is being imposed on workers and on the people of our country. The refusal to value wages that accompany inflation values and ensure the recovery of lost purchasing power is a way of cutting wages to workers. This valuation of wages must be done by combining three concrete actions: the increase of the national minimum wage for the €850 in a short period of time; the elimination of the expiry of the collective contract, which is essential to increase wages and value careers in the private sector; and the increase in the wages of employees of the Public Administration, which has restored the power of purchase lost for more than 12 years and fulfilling progresses and remunerative valuations. These are proposals which the CFP has already delivered at the beginning of this legislature. The urgency of the general value of wages is coupled with the obvious need to combat precariousness and its eradication, ensuring that all permanent needs correspond to an effective working link, ending the use of the most diverse forms of precariousness that multiply and that will surely reach more than 1 million workers, between false contracts in the long term, false green receipts, temporary work, outsourcing, digital platforms, false stages, false research grants, part-time or hourly work. The insecurity of their bonds is insecurity in their personal and family life, the uncertainty of the future, the instability in social protection, the limitation of fundamental rights. In order to end this reality of instability and to comply with the constitutional right to work with rights and to safety at work, the CFP has today delivered two initiatives that are firm steps to combat precariousness: by extending the characteristics relevant to the presumption of the work contract; by reducing the situations in which it is possible to use the end-term contract; by revoking the experimental period to 180 days and the very short-term special contracts; by increasing the period when the employer is prevented from making new admissions through a term or temporary contract to the same functions; by reducing the situations of eligibility of temporary employment contracts and the duration of these same contracts; by restricting the reasons for the use of temporary work; and by also valuing the conditions of workers under temporary work. The reality of low wages and precariousness is not uncommonly carried out with unregulated and incompatible times with any reconciliation with personal and family life. For this reality, the answer is inseparable from the strengthening of the rights of workers working at night or by shifts, recognizing the harsh characteristics of this work regime and compensating these workers — as proposed by the CFP as well — but it is also inseparable from the reduction of working hours to 35 hours for all workers, as well as from the end of adaptability mechanisms and hour banks, which are no longer than ways of giving hours to the boss. It is urgent to ensure decent hours for workers, time to live, in addition to work, time to be with family and to accompany children, but also time for culture, for sport, for leisure. If civilizational advances in technical and scientific areas allow today to produce more, with better quality, greater effectiveness and in less time, then these advances must be at the service of better working conditions and living conditions for workers, who produce the wealth of our country. For this reason, we also deliver two initiatives that eliminate tools for deregulation of working hours and reduce working hours to 35 hours for all workers, which is of the most justice and a claim deeply linked to 1. the May one, which for more than 130 years had already placed the requirement of fixing the working day within a maximum of 8 hours daily. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, valued wages, work with rights, stability and safety in employment, decent times and time to live are the solutions that the initiatives delivered by the CFP guarantee workers. This is because workers in our country are not condemned to live with low wages, with precarious links, nor must they be subject to unregulated hours, long working days, hours banks, intense work rhythms, impoverishment or exploitation. The recognition and enforcement of workers' rights are central to progress and social justice, because there is no developed country without valued workers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u108	Thank you very much, Madam Member, for the scrupulous respect of your time. The Bureau shall record four entries for requests for clarification. I imagine the honourable Member wants to answer in blocks of two.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u109	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u110	To formulate the first request for clarification, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u111	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, you spoke here in fights, which I think are common to this whole House. All of us in this House want people to have higher wages; all of us in this House want people to have more time to live, more time for their family; all of us here want people to have higher quality of life. However, the way in which these intentions — which should not be just signs of virtue — are realized in very concrete measures different from us, and it is quite different from us. So my question will be rather short, but I think even shorter will be your answer. There are a number of measures that have been implemented by a number of countries, which have proved to be successful, to achieve all those objectives which the honourable Member has presented. The challenge and what I ask you to do is to set an example for a country that has followed communist policies and has achieved its stated objectives: to have high wages, good living conditions, good technological development.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u112	What a beautiful argument! You have to read the Portuguese Legion manual!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u113	I just needed you to tell me a country. I imagine you have had numerous examples of communist countries that have achieved this goal to give. If you have them, thank you for that. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u114	Mr President, my congratulations also on the management of time use. You now have the floor for a request for clarification, Mr José Soeiro, from the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u115	Mr President, Mrs Diana Ferreira, certainly remained with the same curiosity as I to know whether Chile or the United States are the model that the IL proposes regarding wage inequality, working hours, protection of rights, regulation of work.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u116	We have the example of the Netherlands. Say yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u117	It is true that precariousness has spread and if it has become, let us say, in the typical, normal working relationship, for an important part of the workers. I am referring not only to the classic forms of precariousness, to the term contracts, to false green receipts, but also to the new forms of precariousness which have been developed, due to the withdrawal of labour relations, from the framework of labour law itself, as is the case with digital platforms. There is the problem of schedules, of their deregulation, but also of prolongation. The honourable Member pointed out that, no 1. the May one, the struggle of workers always had in the question of working hours and defending the limitation of working hours one of its central cores. For this reason, we have verified today that, in practice, in many cases, we are working more than we have been working 40, 50, 60, 80 years ago, because of the informal extension of working hours, which also means an employer invasion of life time, the rest time of workers. We have fundamental differences with the Socialist Party, which has become the great zebra of the troika's inheritance in the Labour Code. You cannot move in what the troika put in the Labour Code is untouchable. The Socialist Party does not accept to move into unilateral expiry, but there are recent aspects which also deserve concern, and I would also like to ask you about this, Mrs Deputies. the Government's programme disappeared what was in the Socialist Party's election programme on state requirements to companies with which it holds outsourcing contracts. Why did this disappear from the government program? The INE ( National Institute of Statistics), at the end of May 23, announced that it would stop collecting data on shiftwork, night work, morning work, Saturday and Sunday work, for the quarterly disclosure it does. You'll stop collecting that information because it's not very requested. Now, shiftwork is one of the most precarious realities for the organization of life that we have in Portugal and has developed a lot in recent years. Why, then, will this information no longer be included in INE reports?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u118	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u119	I will finish, Mr. President. The Directorate-General for Administration and Public Employment made a note in which it completely voided the duty of decoupling companies in relation to contact with workers outside the working hours and that is also worrying. I would like to know what Mrs Diana Ferreira thinks and also what the Socialist Party thinks about it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u120	In reply, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u121	Mr President, I thank Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto for the Liberal Initiative and Mr. José Moura Soeiro for the issues he has raised. Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, considering the subjects that have been addressed in my political statement and that we are talking about fundamental rights of workers' lives, that we are talking about hundreds of thousands of workers in our country who are in poverty because of low wages, that we are talking about the reality of hundreds of thousands of young people who are unable to take life projects, because they do not have stability in their employment link and because they do not have decent wages, indeed, it was expected that there would be a serious debate and serious questions and serious concerns on this issue by the Liberal Initiative. [[PCP applause.]] And also, Mr. Member, to disregard almost a century of social progress in these matters, to disregard almost a century of social progress resulting from tireless struggles by workers in various countries of the world...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u122	They're not many! Just tell me a country!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u123	...it's not just cynicism, it's effectively ignorance. We are not giving history lessons to anyone, we are here to discuss the labor problems of our country's workers. [[PCP applause.]] We also noted, Mr Member, that, for the workers of our country, the Liberal Initiative had zero words, which is quite revealing, indeed,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u124	Say it now! There's no answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u125	...of the interests that you defend. They have no words to talk about the reality of precariousness.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u126	Where would it be better? In Cuba?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u127	The gentlemen. Members have no words, for example, for CTT workers ( Correios de Portugal ), when there are EUR 18 million that will be distributed by shareholders and the workers will bring home an increase of €5.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u128	Don't you have an answer? You don't have any country? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u129	How does the Liberal Initiative see this reality of exploitation, Mr? Zero words regarding these realities,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u130	That's the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u131	... that are transversal in our country. And that, Mr President, says much more about the Liberal Initiative than you can think about.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u132	Say there a country! Don't you know? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u133	Mr José Moura Soeiro, using the time that I still have left, with regard to the set of issues he presented here on the workers of the digital platforms, which, in fact, have recently played a role in defending the improvement of their working conditions, denouncing them absolutely unacceptable, which, of course, the Liberal Initiative must ignore...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u134	What about Belarus? What about Cuba? Zero! There's no answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u135	They also referred to the fact that they have even less money to bear the cost of fuel supplies they make. Many of us use these platforms to require a set of services, goods and even food and today we know that whoever leaves these things in our home does not have decent wages, works 10, 12, 14, 16 hours. He works as many hours as he can because he does not have stability in his work bond and because he actually has low wages and he almost pays to work. And does the Liberal Initiative not have a word to say about that either? [[PCP applause.]] [[IL protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u136	To request clarification, Mrs Rita Borges Madeira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u137	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Diana Ferreira, firstly on behalf of the Socialist Party, I would like to thank you for the reference to that important date and with so much meaning that is 1. May, a milestone in the struggle of workers for what must be theirs: the right to work, the right to have decent working conditions and the right to fair pay. The Government and the Socialist Party have already proved, over the past few years, that they are next to workers and businesses. The fight against poverty and social inequalities has been and is at the centre of the political struggle for the Socialist Party, not only because they impose a limit on the country's economic and social development, but mainly because they represent an atrocity to the social state. We said "present" in the design and implementation of policies that allowed our country to achieve the lowest levels of inequality ever. We said 'present' when we had one of the lowest unemployment rates in recent decades. We said 'present' when we fulfilled our commitment to restoring confidence in the economy, creating jobs, reducing precariousness and increasing wage value. We have had the greatest increase in national minimum wage and also in the average wage. We have had pension increases and we will also have an extraordinary pension increase in this budget, which will cover more than 2 million pensioners. But we are not happy with this, Mrs. Deputies. So here we continue, and that's why the Portuguese continue to trust us. This budget provides, despite the difficult international situation, to continue support for workers and families, with significant measures, some of them heard today in the morning, such as the freeness and extension of the daycare system, the guarantee for children, the strengthening of family allowance, the provision of parenthood, among others. But we must not forget the Agenda for Dignified Work and Youth Valuation in the Labour Market, because for the Socialist Party all citizens are treated with the same dignity, all citizens today have the right to the same opportunities and to a better quality of life. That's the country we believe in and that's what we work for. The question I am asking you, Mrs Deputies, is whether the measures taken in recent years and those envisaged in this Budget correspond for the CFP to progress in the value of work and workers and whether we can count on your party to continue improving the lives of workers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u138	The last request for clarification to Mrs Diana Ferreira belongs to the PSD Parliamentary Group. You have the floor, to this end, Mrs Emília Cerqueira.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u139	Mr President, I should like to begin by greeting Mrs Deputies for bringing this issue to debate and leaving a note to her, since it is indeed, without fear, with that habit of the PCP, which we have here a political statement that is nothing more than the reference to the initiatives she has put forward on the day of the takeover.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u140	You didn't hear me! You have to hear it again!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u141	I am referring to the initiatives he presented on the day of the takeover and which entered on March 29, 2022 — Draft Resolution No 4 / XV / 1. a and the Lein Projects 1, 2, 3, / XV / 1. a — and that are a repetition of those who had just been plunged.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u142	It's true! It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u143	You didn't understand anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u144	But the habit is this: the PCP, which does not walk, which is always stopped in time, presents over and over and over the same proposals...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u145	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u146	These are the same proposals for 'hardening' of our legal order,... [[PSD applause.]] ... lack of adaptation to needs, lack of adaptation to reality, as well as those proposals that have put Portugal more and more in the tail of Europe, with the poorest workers, with a more precarious, less robust business fabric, with less financial capacity. Yes, because employers are not the devil they speak of, employers are resilient and are fundamental to a good labour market, to the wealth that is created and to the income of workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u147	Those who create wealth are the workers!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u148	It is unfortunate that the PCP, the tow of its initiatives which I repeat, sometimes without account, does not have the concern of listening to social consultation. In fact, he prefers to do politics on the streets using 1. May and April 25 as if they were owners, when they are all of us, of all Portuguese and of all workers, of all political quadrants.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u149	It's Elon Musk's!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u150	He doesn't own democracy. In fact, it's hard to get out if the owner was the PCP, because it wouldn't exist. The question I have to ask you is very simple, Madam Member: will the PCP go once and for all look at the future, look forward, to the need of our young people, our workers, to the need for effective enrichment of this country, or will you continue in this position to look back, to be in the past century, to miss any USSR (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics) and to do, with this, with which we are increasingly poor? It is in your hand, at the beginning of this legislature, to furnish foot and, once and for all, to be part of the solution. Will they be? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u151	In reply, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u152	Mr President, I welcome Mrs Rita Borges Madeira from the PS, and Mrs Emília Cerqueira from the PSD, from the comments they have made and from the questions they have raised. Mrs Emília Cerqueira, I begin with you. Indeed, the PSD comes here in its weariness air and worker of deep disregard for the words that were given from that rostrum. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u153	Next time, listen!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u154	If you had listened to what was said by the CFP, you had noticed that the announcement we made from that forum was legislative initiatives that actually entered today. And, Mrs. Member, these are initiatives that have been delivered today to resolve the problems of precariousness that exist today...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u155	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u156	...and reaching more than 1 million workers in our country. These are initiatives to solve the problem of irregular schedules that exist today in our country, in which work days are also imposed more than 10 hours a day. But by the way, the PSD is a good partner. As he must also live very well, for example, with large distribution groups such as Sonae, who, having EUR 268 million of profits, deny increases to their workers. As I am sure, she is also well associated with the profits of EUR 463 million from the Pingo Doce, Mrs Deputy, which denies increases to workers. The gentlemen. Members live well with the patronage, to whom they can well pay so little to the workers. Well, we don't live together, Mrs. Member! [[PCP applause.]] That's a convivio that's yours. We know which side we are on this: we are on the side of strengthening workers' rights, valuing their wages, improving their working conditions and living conditions. Mrs Rita Borges Madeira, I would also like to make a few comments, in particular by contrasting the Socialist Party's words with its practice. This is because, Mrs. Member, we do not forget that in the last legislation, in 25. the hour, the PS gave a walkover regarding the proposals to combat precariousness.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u157	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u158	A legislative initiative of the CFP, which the PS had approved to be treated in the specialty, in 25. the time, after all, felt that it was not so urgent to respond to the reality of precarious workers and rejected it. Madam Member, the PS continues to refuse the wage increases that are imposed to restore the purchasing power that is being lost by the workers. The PS continues to refuse to eliminate the expiry of the collective contract. He recognises that there is a problem and proposes a moratorium on suspension, but, recognizing that there is a problem, he does not ultimately solve it. Madam Member, the PS maintains workers in the Public Administration with precarious links, having not implemented the PREVPAP ( Extraordinary Regularization Programme of the Precarious Links in the Public Administration) as a whole. Therefore, the words can be very beautiful, but the acts that the PS has had are that effectively they do not correspond to the minimum of intentions. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u159	For a political statement on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Joana Mortagua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u160	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Because no violation of human rights must be contained in the victim's private forum, perpetuated by the impunity of the aggressor and the denial of justice; Because the attack on the human dignity of victims of sexual violence, mostly women, concerns society, its prejudices and its inequalities; Because we cannot ignore that the substrate of this crime is a culture of subjugation and sexual objectification of women, proven by the trend of the recurrence of the aggressors; Because the aggressors have this culture in their favor and count on it, with the social stigmatization and guilt of the victims, with the shame that silences the suffering and brings about the denunciation. For all these truths, which I believe to be indisputable among us, what we bring to debate is the relationship between society and the crime of sexual rape, whether we are responsible for the protection of victims, respecting them in what is most essential, which is the human right not to be victims of rape or sexual crime. What we are discussing here is whether a rapist can trust society more to preserve its impunity than his victim, present or future, can trust the protection of justice. Sexual violence is a permanent war. Between 2015 and 2020, there were 2285 complaints of rape crimes, which means an average of more than one complaint per day during those five years. The decrease in the number of complaints between 2019 and 2020, considering the pandemic confinements, cannot make us assert a trend, on the contrary, should concern us. Most of the time, the perpetrators of the crimes are men who are part of the family relationship or proximity of the victims. This is a crime in which the aggressor's descent on the victim and the power relations occur in a particularly intense way, which is why it is also a violence to surrender the victim to his fate, telling him that the decision to investigate and accuse the crime for himself depends only on his will. These are the data that destroy the argument of the protection of the privacy of the victim, now used, as 20 years ago, to refuse public crime, at the time, in the discussion on domestic violence.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u161	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u162	All girls and women are used to feeling more or less insecure on the street, but there is no greater horror than having to go home every day knowing that danger is in there. Who can sleep well at night, clinging to the privacy pillow, knowing that we didn't do everything we could to protect these women? The petition for the conversion of the crime of rape into public crime is proof that this is a comprehensive cause of our society and has over 100,000 signatories and signatories. They argue that, as is the case with domestic violence, which is correctly transformed into public crime, victims also fear the retaliation of the aggressor and the social stigmatization itself. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, more than 20 years ago, Luís Fazenda and Francisco Louçã defended these same arguments and won unanimity in this same Parliament to regard domestic violence as a public crime. It was a fan in the social conventions that for centuries normalized the image of the husband who arrived in the hated house and beat the woman or the children: between husband and wife we all went « to spoon». Before that, many activists discussed and fought for the need for a new criminal framework to protect women victims of domestic violence. I quote the words of Helena Pinto, when I remembered the time « when women did not have the conditions or the courage to go to a police station, enter in there to, cornered to a counter where there were only men, tell a policeman, or a Republican guard: ‘I am the victim of ill-treatment, my husband begs me and I come here to lodge a complaint’. Do not keep on seeking. ” I also recall the words of Socialist Maria Alzira We read in a public hearing promoted in Parliament: « Why are we discussing the need for public crime or not? What are we talking about? We're talking about human rights. And since we're talking about human rights, crime can only be public. There's no half-term. You can't leave responsibility for the victims alone. Do not keep on seeking. ” It was from this simple idea that the victims cannot be abandoned to themselves, as if they were responsible for the confrontation with what is most rotting in macho society, that public policies for the protection of victims of domestic violence began to take shape. We have come far away and now we have not called for major legislative innovations or even a revolution of mentalities, they have been made over decades and often outside the walls of this Parliament. What we are asking today is that we do not deviate from this path and that it is not the Assembly of the Republic to deny the cry of women on the street: it moved with one, it moved with all. [[Congratulations on the BE and the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u163	Madam Member, the Bureau shall record four entries for requests for clarification, to which it has indicated that it shall answer together. The first request for clarification belongs to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u164	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Joana Mortágua, I would like to congratulate you on bringing this issue to debate in the Assembly of the Republic, which we are accompanying and which, in the view of the NAP, is of the greatest relevance. We have already had the opportunity to hear who, from a conservative point of view, believes that acknowledging the public character of this type of crime is to reverse women's rights. We can't be further away from this understanding. We follow the vision of the Left Block, even because we are accompanied by the more than 100,000 signatures that have signed this petition which we hope will soon come to the Assembly of the Republic. This is because, in fact, between husband and wife, between man and woman or between anyone, where there is violence, we have to "collate" and the legislator has to follow this social becoming. For those who can in any way anticipate some arguments, namely the privacy of the victim, I have to say that we have already presented a legislative initiative which has a working mechanism and aims at the possibility of the victim withdrawing the complaint and the ongoing process. There is an escape valve and, therefore, there are legal solutions to mitigate this issue. On the other hand, to understand that the public nature of crime can lead to the absence of convictions or to unfair convictions would, in our view, call into question the very crime that currently has a public nature, which is the crime of domestic violence. But the question I would like to ask you, because we are talking about horrendous crimes that destroy dreams and life prospects, is whether we should not go any further and, as the NAP has already proposed, also change the deadlines for prescription, both of the complaint itself and of sexual crimes, precisely to take account of the time the victims can take to reach the majority or the six months so that a victim can deal with the entire process, either in cases of violation or in other crimes, such as sexual harassment, and that are manifestly insufficient. Should we further amend the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure by moving these crimes? Are you going to follow the NAP in this measure? On the other hand, I refer to the empowerment of the crime of sexual harassment, because we continue to have eufemismos marking our Penal Code and we believe that we should actually go further. In conclusion, I could not fail to express all our solidarity with women who, in the context of the war, are being victims of the crime of rape, because it is with horror and much indignation that we continue to witness the crime of rape being used as a war crime.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u165	To ask for clarification, you have the floor of the Member of the Socialist Party Cláudia Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome Mrs Joana Mortágua and the Left Block for allowing us to revisit this matter. I begin by saying that the crime of rape is already a public crime when practised against minor victims. It is therefore not about girls or boys that we are talking about here. The crime of rape is also a public crime when the rape results in the suicide or death of the victim and since 2015 the crime of rape can give rise to the criminal trial initiated by the Public Prosecutor's Office if there is no complaint from the victim, the Public Prosecutor's Office finds that the victim's interest advises him. Nevertheless, the Left Block brings the issue of 'advertising' the crime of violation to this plenary, legislative session after legislative session. We discussed this on April 15 last year. I am not going to crush this plenary by revisiting the same arguments, I intend to bring up new arguments. I admit that the Left Block proposal is well-intentioned. I ask you to do justice to admit that our perspective is, too, and our perspective is certainly not conservative, very contrary, because those who ask for more of it are the Left Block and the PAN, who ask for more criminal law. The answer given by criminal justice has been guaranteed for many decades. We are progressive, because we are looking for new answers. We think the victims deserve new answers. We also need to remember what it is to be the victim of a crime. To be the victim of a crime is to be struck in a sort of invisible shield that, in a rule of law, guarantees us that we can walk through life without being struck in our sexual freedom, in our physical integrity, in our honor, in our property. When we are victims of a crime, the aggressor's selfishness imposes itself on us. There is, therefore, no reason why, in the case of adult victims, they are not victimized in an invisible shield, they are invaded in their own body, in the most brutal way that we can imagine, in fact, we must admit that protecting these victims is to recognize them in their freedom, in their autonomy and in their will. So, what I want to ask you, Mrs Deputies, is only what I would say to a victim, and I will quote one, which stated the following: "I was raped by two people. My friends called my family and exposed me. I was already under treatment and in complete recovery. They didn't listen to me, because, for them, I was just a patient who couldn't choose about his own life. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u167	I read! I said that in the last debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u168	We're talking about a woman, an adult woman, who wants new answers and doesn't want to be exposed to criminal proceedings. Do you really want to be forced into this unique answer? That's the question I'm asking you. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u169	Mr Bernardo Blanco, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u170	Mr President, Mrs Joana Mortágua, I am already concerned, because it is already the second political statement that I shall immediately applaud, but it is certainly a sign of the importance of this matter. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u171	I'm worried too!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u172	And, in this case, it is really regrettable that the PS continues to bring almost copies of statements from the previous legislature and ignores that there are several proposals in which victims have the right, as Mrs Inês de Sousa Real said, to this provisional suspension of the proceedings. It would be like the case of domestic violence, in which the arguments are exactly the same, but society evolved and did not happen. And in all legislatures, they are afraid to insist on them. There have already been proposals in the previous legislature, but we are now more a political force to have a proposal for rape to be considered a public crime. In the previous legislature, the Arrival itself voted in favour. My doubt is even about our proposal, because at the time the Left Block abstained. I believe that it may have had to do with this question of the right to suspend, but it is a matter where you can also work in the field of specialty. Therefore, in reality, my request for clarification is basically concerning the right of suspension, i.e. whether the Left Block agrees that this right must exist, even to safeguard these types of criticisms that have been made, especially by the PS and also by the PSD. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u173	To make a request for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to greet Mrs Joana Mortágua and the Left Block on the issue they once again addressed. Because of the relevance of the matter, it is important to frame what is being dealt with and what is in fact at stake when we talk about semi-public or public crimes. And it is important not to confuse a judgment on the seriousness or censorability of the crime with the configuration as a public crime or not. This is a confusion that is often made and, as to view all the changes as being good, perhaps at times it would be better to let go and not go there, rather than move to worse. What is at stake in public crime is the possibility of complaint by any person — a possibility that is already foreseen in the semi-public crime — and that this gives rise to compulsory investigation and no longer dependent on the complaint by the victim. In other words, in public crime the process continues, regardless of the will of the victim. It should be noted that what is discussed, as has already been said, is sexual violence against adults with autonomy, since the sexual abuse of minors, for example, already has the nature of public crime, and also the sexual crimes that are practised in context of affective relationship, which have a proper regime that corresponds to what is intended by the Left Block. The CFP understands that the idea is to protect the victims, increase the number of complaints and end the feeling of impunity, but the solution proposed, in our view, is not only not efficient as it may even be counterproductive, but in fact it is very difficult to prove a crime of rape or sexual violence without the active collaboration of the victim. That is, in fact, very difficult. We believe that trying to protect the victim by ignoring his will is in fact not the best way. And, as we have said, not every victim and the protection of his rights can be instrumental in the realization of justice, nor can it be instrumental in the continuation of changes in the public perception of the crimes and concepts of our society. We cannot protect the victim by ignoring his will, and we ask whether they consider themselves to follow the process without the consent of the victim and against his will to do so is not a second violence to which the victim is subjected. More than the nature of public crime, the collective accountability for this crime is to understand why this refusal, by the urgent provision, is to see, in our view, support for the present victim, by means, that exists independently of the judicial process, and, of course, by greater identification, therefore, greater confidence in the product of justice itself. In our view, sacrificing the victim and his will at every moment, in the name of a symbolism, a greater commitment, a strong commitment to combat this crime and sexual violence as a whole, is a revitalization, and the solution cannot pass through a revitalization. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u175	In reply, Mrs. Joana Mortágua of BE has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I am sure that Mr Bernardo Blanco and Mrs Inês de Sousa Real will understand that I focus my answers on the questions of Mrs Cládia Santos and Mrs Alma Rivera, on the arguments they have put forward. They asked whether a victim of domestic violence, because the crime of domestic violence is public, is revitalized, injured in its autonomy, and whether the State is being paternalized for a victim of domestic violence, because domestic violence is being a public crime. I'm saying no, I don't think so. They asked whether it was considered that there is a duty to protect the privacy of the victim of domestic violence that is challenged by the fact that domestic violence is a public crime. I'm saying no, I don't think so. I do not consider this because Parliament has been able to overcome the conservative perception that what exists inside the home, the subjects related to sexual acts, with the sex taboo, with a sexual assault, has to do with potential and, above all, with the privacy of the victims and it is not a matter of society. I even say more: what revitalizes women is the culture of rape. What revitalizes women is fear. What revitalizes women is this feeling of shame. by saying that we are going to question privacy because of the fact that crime is public, we are legitimizing the feeling of shame and social stigma that women feel in the face of the crime of rape. That's what we can't forget! Mrs Cláudia Santos asked me: "But do you want to impose a single path? Oh, my God! Not at all! I do not want to impose a single path, as it does not impose a single path on victims of domestic violence and as it does not impose a single path on children who are victims of rape, a crime which is already enshrined as a public crime. It does not appear that neither the autonomy nor the dignity of these children have been challenged by the fact that they are especially protected by law. But there is one issue that I think needs to be understood. The State has a special responsibility for victims of aggression and rape: it has the responsibility to protect, it has the responsibility to train police, prosecutors, judges and lawyers, it has the responsibility to remove the offender from the victim and it has the responsibility to provide psychological support to the victim. Exploring these responsibilities of the State, running away from these responsibilities, excusing support for the protection of the victim and undermining the issue of the debate of rape as a public crime, saying that this excuses the other responsibilities of the State, it is one way - forgive me the expression— very hypocritical to enter this debate, because no responsibility of the State can be dispensed by the fact that the crime is considered a public crime. What happens when crime is considered a public crime is that the Public Prosecutor's Office has an obligation to act if there is a complaint, if there is no complaint. I wanted to mention an episode in 2021, when a young man admitted, on a direct Instagram, to have raped a girl and abandoned her until the INEM (National Institute of Medical Emergency ) arrived. By Portuguese law, even with a direct one in which hundreds of people saw a young woman admit to having raped a girl and left her until the INEM arrives, it is necessary for the Public Prosecutor to consider that the victim has a special duty of protection to be able to move forward without the complaint of the victim. I ask you: none of the people who saw that boy admit to having raped a woman will have anything to say? Does society have nothing to say about that? Does society have no collective responsibility? Do we wash hands with these victims? Do we abandon them to the loneliness of their trauma? Do we abandon them to the loneliness of their shame and stigmatization? Does society have no special duty to tell the aggressors that crime will not be unpunished and that they will not repeat it? It must be remembered that the crime of sexual violence often tends to be a crime with high rates of recurrence. What does society say together not only to the victims, but also to the aggressors? Oh, my God! I know what the Left Block wants me to say. What we want to say is that no woman is alone in the face of a crime of sexual assault. No matter how deep the trauma is, however delicate it is to deal with it, it is precisely by recognizing this crime as a public crime that we say there is a whole country and a judicial system that is willing to protect them. As long as this idea is not well solidified, there is no aggressor who ceases to feel impunity or victim who feels protected by society and justice. I don't think it's worth mentioning—it wasn't in this debate, and yet! — another kind of absurd argument, such as that women will be dragged against their will for legal expertise and the bar of the courts without understanding it. Obviously, we live in a democracy and no woman will be dragged into processes that go against their dignity, self-determination and human rights. On the contrary, it is this dignity that we want to preserve. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that there is no single argument that is now being used under the alleged cover of victim protection that has not been used 20 years ago for domestic violence. None! And there wasn't one that in 20 years if it had proved true. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u177	For a political statement on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Jorge Seguro Sanches has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me, in my first speech in this Parliament, to address Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic and, through you, all of you. Members of the House, during this Parliament, a word of vote for success in the representation of all Portuguese people. The success of each and every one of us on this mission will certainly be the best way to a more developed, just and supportive Portugal. I bring to the plenary a subject so relevant and old that it will deserve, I am sure, on the part of the honourable Members. Members, all interest and motivation to follow development in Portugal over the next few years. After decades of postponed plans and promises, Sines is, at last, a certainty of industrial and logistical development in our country. More and more — even because of what is happening in Eastern Europe these days, increasingly visible to all Europeans, Sines assumes strategic potential, even more associated with the potential of the exclusive economic zone of Portugal, to 2. the largest in Europe and 19. The world's. Indeed, created 52 years ago, the Office of the Sines Area was responsible for the implementation of an industrial and port complex—by taking advantage of its natural and strategic conditions and enhancing its deep water port—which can receive any ship in the world, from any tonnage. In service since 2004, although the decision to build it was initiated in 2000, Sines also has a liquefied natural gas storage terminal ( LNG ) of the most efficient in the European Union. Sines is currently a growing engine of the national economy, either through its global logistics insertion or through its bet on energy transition and digital transition. Precisely on this last point, that of the digital transition, this week, the company responsible for the development of the hyperscale data centre SINES 4.0 started the construction of the first phase of the project. This is an investment of EUR 130 million, with an expected conclusion for the first quarter of 2023 and the creation of 70 to 100 new direct jobs in Sines. It is estimated that 400 indirect jobs will also be created during this year. This investment is the result of the existence of submarine cable docking stations of telecommunications and data processing and storage centres, in which EUR 3, 5 billion was invested, and also job-creating in other regions of the country. This value is part of an ongoing, confirmed and potential private investment pipeline of more than EUR 17 billion by 2030, equivalent to 8 % of national GDP ( gross domestic product ) of 2021. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, too, Mrs. Members, in the logistics component, private investments in the expansion of the current container terminal and in a future second container terminal are estimated at EUR 940 million. Business logistics and assembly projects will be around EUR 800 million and with both of them there will be the creation of 800 to 900 jobs. Investments in energy and industry will reach more than EUR 4 billion in investment reinforcements by companies not currently in Sines. For example, only the project, announced last week, of MadoquaPower2X and the three private investments that are currently in progress are worth more than EUR 6 billion. As for the digital transition, with the cable mooring stations I mentioned recently, we have an investment of EUR 3, 5 billion. All this investment dynamics, Mr. President and Mr. Members, it illustrates how Sines is becoming a hub of Europe with the world, resulting not only from natural capacities and investment, but also from the will and action of many, public and private, among which I am allowed to highlight the city and the government in the area of internationalization. It also points out that strategic public projects are under way for that region, of which I would like to mention and stress the increase in the capacity of link between Sines and A2, which is included in the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ), with an investment of EUR 60 million, planning to start the environmental impact assessment still this year, in order to be able to launch the competition for the work in the third quarter of next year so that it can be completed by the end of 2025. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Also in the railway, the modernization of the Sines Line is under way, between Sines and Hermids. This intervention will adapt the line to train traffic up to 750 m in length. Also of great importance for Porto de Sines is the construction of the new line between Évora and Elvas, which will shorten the route to the border of Caia in 140 km. In combination with the other investment related to the possibility of trains up to 750 m in length, all of this results in a reduction in transport cost of 50 % and a triplication of transport capacity. This line represents an investment of around EUR 500 million and should be completed by the end of next year.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u179	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u180	With a new relative centrality, optimizing inputs and promoting outputs of goods and data to the national economy, the Sines Industrial Complex is strategic at European level. It is part of the Atlantic Corridor, the TEN-T ( trans-European transport network ), and is increasingly a new hub of the TEN-Telecom ( trans-European telecommunications network) and presenting itself with enormous potential for the TEN-E ( trans-European energy network ). [[P.S.'s applause.]] At the same time, new units are planned, which will double the number of tourist beds in that municipality of the Coastal Alentejo, from about 800 today to more than 1600. The construction of three hotels, two in Sines and one in Porto Covo is under way, and the latter can also open this year as planned. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, these are good news, why Portugal continues to be committed to the European realisation of the necessary interconnections, either of the electricity already assumed in European terms in the Clean Energy package, 15 % by 2030 or natural gas, by the implementation of a real network that also ensures in energy the values of the movement network between States of the European Union. in this matter, Sines, with its LNG terminal, can be the gateway alternative to the natural gas of the Orient, boosting, in an innovative way, new forms of renewable energy production, in which Portugal is, due to its natural conditions, with water, wind and solar potential, one of the world's leading countries. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u181	Five Members signed up to request clarification from Mr Jorge Seguro Sanches. The honourable Member will respond together to requests for clarification, for which he will have no more than 3 minutes. You have the floor, then, to ask for clarification, Mr Bruno Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u182	Mr. President, I'm Bruno Nunes. Still few know me, but there's no problem with that. Mr. Jorge Sanches, I almost shed a tear when I heard your speech about Sines. Recently, I saw some young people here and eventually I realized that to try to understand what we are discussing here, the best way to explain their speech is to tell them that we are talking about virtual reality. However, the glasses of virtual reality have not been distributed by all of us and we have some difficulty in realizing what has been said here, because the lack of strategic vision which, over the past 40 years, has prevailed in relation to Sines is so loud, but so loud—and there are some things in the middle that are half-truths, such as when we speak of Terminal XXI, it is true that Sines has empowered a new flow and other dimension of ships to enter the port — that they have not realized the importance that natural gas could already have in the Portuguese economy if they had opened the market of Algeria and Nigeria. But no! They did not understand and maintained, without any strategic communication, the pipelines only to Aveiras, without realizing that we could now go to Madrid and we could already have an open market for more than 10 million people.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u183	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u184	But no, you don't understand! [[Congrats from the CH.]] They didn't realize that the railway is one of the great needs of Sines, they didn't realize that the rail connection to Beja is imperative,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u185	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u186	... they didn't even realize that there are parts of highways that VV. They left half-stops, which were already inaugurated, which opened, which closed,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u187	Three times, a few!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u188	...three times, and it's all still standing. But we continue with the glasses of virtual reality without realizing what we are doing. Mr President, we are still not listening to your speech and not reading in the Government Programme... [[PS protests.]] They don't like to listen—it's true—but they'll have to listen to me! They don't like to hear that they don't understand the strategy of having one of the world's largest continental platforms. They could understand, because all studies indicate it — but not everyone is studying — that these platforms are the richest in rare metals, which we needed so much and which could so well leverage our economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u189	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u190	I leave here the first question to try to understand, strategically, what is the position it has in relation to the exploitation of rare materials.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u191	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u192	Finally, VV. They talk about data centers and just do a simple Google research, or any other platform, to realize that they were thought without any housing strategy, by your mayor, also the Socialist Party. In fact, there is no housing strategy for all those who can go to work there—not always—because income amounts to more than 1000 €. The question remains about those you let go of the thermoelectric power stations last year, for which they did nothing and resolved nothing. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u193	Thank you very much, Mr Bruno Nunes, and I corrected the delay a short time ago. To request clarification, Mr. Jorge Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u194	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank Mr Jorge Seguro Sanches for his speech on the majestic investments that the Socialist Party Government has made for Sines. In his speech, he said that 52 years later, at last, Sines is starting to be a regional development pole. I can recall that Sines has already been a large petrochemical complex, a large port-industrial complex and I have always thought that Sines was already a regional development pole, but now, according to his words, it will be a regional development pole, spent these years and after many years of the Socialist Party's governance. Yesterday, Mr. Prime Minister, in the launch of the first stone of the famous megacenter of data, tied the future of Sines to digital and energy transition, when he said it had to be a twin transition, they had to walk hand in hand — digital transition and energy transition. I understand, let us say, the word, the sense, but we hope that this will have consequences and, above all, that the future of Sines will not again be mortgaged as the great pole of regional development that we all aspire to. at this moment, the great problem of Europe, as you have already mentioned, has to do with its energy independence and the role that Sines can and should represent as a solution to the future of energy independence, in particular the centre of Europe. Therefore, we, the PSD Parliamentary Group, believe that this is the ideal time to re-enter the European debate the role that Portugal and Spain can play in Europe's energy independence. And it is necessary that once and for all, with this government, the Pyrenees should again be interconnected within a project of common European interest, as the PSD did, when it was government, at several European summits. I therefore ask you two questions: given the current European context, the PSD considers that there is a unique opportunity, as our MEPs in the European Parliament are defending, in order to re-place this project, of European interconnection from the Pyrenees as a project of common European interest. Does the Member and Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party agree with this position of the PSD? Second question: does the government have to be more hasty in defending this project of common interest, which now has to be, or again, the tow of the circumstances? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u195	You now have the floor for a request for clarification, Mr Rui Tavares, of the Free.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u196	Mr President, Mr. Jorge Seguro Sanches, I would like to take advantage of this to ask you about green hydrogen, since Sines is the anchor location of a green hydrogen project, in fact, still recently that was again assumed by the State Secretaries of Internationalization and Environment and Energy. I do not underestimate the importance that green hydrogen can have for the energy transition, as it is a unique opportunity to transform renewable and intermittent energy into clean and permanent energy. Portugal has a great potential in this area, as other countries have, and those who have already understood it have had a very important role to play in Europe, in the development and marketing of other types of energy such as Norway or the Netherlands. It is true that both Norway and the Netherlands have these investments anchored in value creation through new public undertakings. In Norway, the Statoil and Statkraft were, let us say, mobilised by the Government for the possible creation of a public enterprise and in the liberal Netherlands, or, to be more stringent, in the Netherlands, Gasunie, which is 100 % public, is the Farol company in terms of hydrogen investments. In the PS program, I find references to hydrogen auctions, tax benefits for hydrogen powered vehicles, I find references to hydrogen within the framework of the PRR, but I do not find three words that would make all the difference: hydrogen from Portugal. Because not the creation of a public enterprise,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u197	Yeah, public companies... it's another board of directors!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u198	...that, as the Minister of Energy of Norway says, is a means, is not an end, to intervene in the future hydrogen economy? Deep down, the question is very simple: why not? Why does the PS programme exclude this possibility, unlike, for example, the Free programme?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u199	For a request for clarification, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u200	Mr President, Mr Seguro Sanches, I welcome this because the development of Sines is indeed important, either in terms of decentralisation or in terms of the development of the southernmost coastal area of the country, but above all because it has been a very forgotten area and, as you mentioned in your speech, it is noted, forgotten for more than half a century, because the development of the region has been delayed. But in all this enthusiasm that we have heard in your speech there are two essential issues that have been left out of the climate, from the point of view of climate and from the point of view of the hub that Sines can and should be, in terms of energy transition. It is not enough to say that we want to be a hub of Europe, it is necessary to say what kind of hub is that we want Sines and the country itself to be and whether or not we want to put Portugal at the forefront of this transition. He did not mention two essential aspects either: on the one hand, in terms of energy sovereignty, he did not say whether or not the PS was actually available to assume that it would also embark on the Russian gas, because in fact we are talking about dependence on more than 40 % of the natural gas. Portugal could develop itself in terms of pipeline, particularly with the connection of Port de Sines to France, although we know that gas, sooner or later, must also cease to be an energy-oriented option under the decarbonisation process. But at this time the fact that Germany has chosen, for example, for Catar, which is far behind Portugal, rather than opting for a country of the European Union like Portugal, seems to reveal that there is something left to do here, so we ask what on the part of its parliamentary group could have been done so that this option could not have been taken. On the other hand, in view of the inevitability of a solution for the region, he did not say whether, from the point of view of tourism of nature, particularly sports, as is the case with surfing, all this innovation will or will not question the one that is today a very well-known and very important peak in terms of the local community and also of the surfing tourism that is developed there, because we all know - and the subject has already arrived at this House — the risk that there is the only surfing peak that exists in that place, because of all these projects. To conclude, I ask you, indeed, whether, by taking advantage of the energy of the waves, tides and the wind itself in that region, we may or may not consider that there will be a bet of this government and the Socialist Party for Portugal to be at the top of the energy transition. It is not that we are creating today, with current solutions, a problem of the future, when the bet has to be on renewables.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u201	Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u202	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Jorge Seguro Sanches, we have listened carefully to the political statement that brought to this plenary session and stressed the importance of the debate on the economic development, investment and reindustrialization of the country. The problem is that, over the years, we have been watching so many ads, so many presentations of investment projects that then did not leave the paper, so that for many Portuguese, we will always leave the mess « let's see if it's this...! Do not keep on seeking. ” There are investments that progress, others do not, but for example, we do not forget the announcement for the Mondego region, which was made with pump and circumstance by Prime Minister Socrates and Minister Manuel Pinho, of a great investment in cutting-edge technologies with a transnational company to build in the coming months a plant of fuel batteries and equipment to produce electricity from hydrogen. We were in 2006, 16 years passed and factory didn't even see her! Mr President, at the outset, foreign investment is always welcome in industry, in the creation of wealth, provided it is realized, well understood, but what we do not accept is that the country's strategic development options are submitted or replaced by the economic groups' agenda at every moment, because the country cannot touch multinationals or continue in this sad sense of deindustrialization on behalf of the transition. He does not admit for a second that, as soon as we are in this context, it was a hasty decision to close the Sines Central or the Fisheries Central, with potential risks to the security of the supply of our country, with impacts that add to those of the criminal decision to close,... [[Protests of PS Members.]] ...I'm going to repeat, the criminal decision to close the Matosinhos refinery, which made the country import gas oil? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u203	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u204	You know, after all, what was the lesson that the Prime Minister said he was going to give to Petrogal?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u205	What now? What now?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u206	Where is this lesson that was promised by Dr. António Costa to Petrogal? [[Protests of PS Members.]] Do you not think that it is time to put first the national interest and the defence of a sovereign and developed Portugal? Oh, my God! Does it not believe that, even in the implementation of important investments in the region, there is a requirement that is already being placed in an integrated development operation in this region, which responds to concrete deficiencies in housing, transport, health, or this is for the municipal chambers to resolve how they can achieve, without having the means to do so? Oh, my God! One last question, Mr President: with the rail infrastructure which is there today allowing the movement of passenger trains, which we have proposed and claimed for years, since the PSD/CDS Government has eliminated this link and which is still to be put back, does it not agree that this delay by the Government is too long to return the train to the population of the Alentejo Coast? Oh, my God! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u207	To reply, Mr Jorge Seguro Sanches has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u208	Mr President, I would like to thank the honourable Members. Mr Bruno Nunes, Jorge Mendes, Rui Tavares, Inês de Sousa Real and Bruno Dias questions and the enrichment of the debate. As I said in my speech, this is not a debate now, it has been a debate for years and we understand that there are reasons why we should be very careful about what Sines can give to our country in the coming years. Portugal is a country that has no fossil resources, has no oil, has no natural gas, but has electricity...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u209	Are you sure? Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u210	... produced with renewable sources,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u211	Are you sure? Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u212	... that allows us to be an exemplary country, precisely when we have to make one of the transitions, which is the energy transition. Our country, for that reason, must be in the leadership of these processes. And Sines, precisely because of its strategic location, is in fact the place where we can do it. on the part of the Government, on the part of the State, and after the highway connecting works have been suspended, as Mr Bruno Dias said, and it is true, I gave here the information that we are working towards getting that link to be completed by 2025. That's the goal we have.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u213	Now it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u214	But we also know that because there is this will on the part of the State, on the part of the government, there is a lot of intention on the part of the private to make a strong investment, of creating wealth at that place, at port level, at the logistical level, at the energy side and at the digital level. The questions of the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, all of them, we will find them - always for one reason, or only for reason - we can say that, and the Portuguese have always been good at it - that we are old men of the Rest and we will say « well, but there is always something that is not right» here. That is why the Socialist Party has brought this issue here today to the Assembly of the Republic, because we consider it important enough to be discussed in the Assembly of the Republic and to have the participation of all Members. Members and not only of the Socialist Party, or not only of the Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It's just, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, this will to intervene in this process is something that I hope we will have throughout this legislature, that we all look at this objective, for this economic design, in the way we may not all have done so in recent years. The Socialist Party will be here to respond to the people of the Setúbal district and to respond to all Portuguese, saying that we will be available and interested and with all the will that this is, in fact, one of the places where the national industry... And I remind Mr Bruno Dias, who made a reference on national production— it was precisely two days ago, the National Production Day—that, when we speak in renewables, we speak in national production; when we speak in fossil energy, we are talking in energy that is not produced, which does not have its origin in our country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u215	We don't have coal, we don't have oil and we don't have natural gas. hence our strong, firm bet on renewable energies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u216	So we conclude the first item on our agenda and move on to point two, which concerns the debate on Petition No 26 / XIV / 1. a (Liliana Sofia Bouça da Silva et al.) — VAT down to 6 % in veterinary acts. By drag, the Law Projects Nos 54 / XV / 1 will also be appreciated in general as a whole. a ( BE ) — Reduce the VAT rate of veterinary acts to 6 %, 56 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Reduce the VAT rate applicable to veterinary services and 57 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — applies the reduced rate of VAT to medical veterinary acts. Registrations for interventions are open and the first is Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, on behalf of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u217	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The recent data from Marktest from 2020 indicate that 3 million and 200,000 people have dogs at home in our country; 2 million and 700 thousand people have cats at home. These are the known data, but we know that there are many other people who have other types of animals also at home. Another study by GfK ( Growth from Knowledge ) indicates that people who have animals under their care spend about 12 % of their family budget with these animals, called domestic animals. Now there is a legal obligation on these persons, an obligation which the Assembly of the Republic itself built in 2017 and which translates into what we are proud of, which is the Legal Statute of Animals. Law No. 8 / 2017 provides that persons who have animals under their care are required to provide health care for their animals, are required to ensure their well-being. And if the law foresees this, if the law obliges, and well, that there is this care for animal welfare, then it is also the same law that says that the expenses with this animal welfare, in practice, are considered before the State, the same as the purchase of a luxury article. It is therefore a law which has two weights and two measures, it makes no sense at all. It considers that there is an obligation to value the rights of animals and to promote their well-being — and this is a legal obligation — and, on the other hand, at the same time considers that the expenditure for this obligation is luxury goods. Absolutely incomprehensible! And it is also incomprehensible when the public response to care for animals falls far short of the needs. And we know that, when they are all taxed equally and at the maximum rate, it costs much more to those who have less and, therefore, are the most fragile ones who have even more costs in their lives, the fruit of having to meet the responsibility that is necessary, compulsory—and indeed there is—of fulfilling animal welfare for their animals. So what the Left Block brings to the debate is just as much what the petitioners and the petitioners — we welcome — ask the Assembly of the Republic: that what is a legal obligation is not taxed as luxury and that the VAT rate is 6 % on all the care, all the needs that exist, which exist, in order to ensure the welfare of animals. From that point of view, I think it is purely sensible, I think it is something that stems from the legal obligation which the majority have obtained in this Parliament and, as such, even because the Socialist Party has voted in favour of Law No 8 / 2017, we believe that it is something that will understand that it has to be changed in this context. from the part of the Left Block, we have presented a bill that can immediately make the difference, but we know that this debate starts from today until the debate, in the specialty, of the State Budget, which we will have in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u218	To present the bill of arrival, Mr. Pedro Frazão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u219	Mr. President and Mr. Members: The question of VAT reduction for veterinary treatments is not new, it is even a measure that has already been proposed in the previous legislation, an old request from the Order of Veterinary Physicians and all Portuguese. It is indeed an old claim, given that medical veterinary acts continue to be taxed at the maximum VAT rate, that many people are unable to bear the costs of such services by jeopardizing the welfare and health of their animals. In Portugal, Mrs. Members, Mr President, all medicines have 0 % VAT, even alternative medicines. Only the veterinary medicine is taxed, and it is then taxed by the large measure, as if taking care of a dog or a cat was the same thing as buying a luxury goods. But is it not about the health of animals? Of course it is, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! But you still don't get it, the gentlemen. Government members and this majority of PS, that each family, including its animals, is an epidemiological unit? Where is the concept of health alone that includes human medicine, animal medicine and environmental health? These three aspects, and the One Health concept, justify that all human medicines — up to alternatives — have 0 % VAT, but does veterinary medicine be considered a luxury? No, they don't justify it! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The State overburdens families, some of them with very few possessions, with a thirst for tax, tax, tax, and neither the associations nor the municipalities are free of this taxation. Here I give the example of my municipality of Santarém. In the Chamber of Santarém, we started with the Veterinary Cheque program, of the Order of Veterinary Physicians, to help provenly lacking families. For in this Veterinary Check programme, in which private veterinary doctors work pro bono, they are working at a cost free of charge, the State charges 23 %, raised 23 %! This isn't fair! The State, instead of helping, overloads families, associations and municipalities, which are even arms with the highest rate of animal abandonment ever seen. [[Congrats from the CH.]] With the highest incidence of errant animals throughout the country and with the official collection centres and animal associations literally to "scatter by seams", does the Government and this majority believe that veterinary medicine is not a good medicine or is it a luxury medicine and must therefore be taxed by the maximum VAT? Oh, my God! It can't be! The government and this majority think that the whole universe of pets are those who see from the Lovers to the Mouse, to the Royal Prince? Oh, my God! This government and this majority don't know the reality of the dog shepherds, the dogs that keep the flocks, the dogs that keep the farms and the stoves,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u220	... of the dogs that keep all the rural properties, of the cats that naturally control the plagues, of the emotional care animals, of the therapeutic animals, of the guide dogs, of the rescue dogs? Oh, my God! For all these animals, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, health is taxed as luxury! Today, in this country, there are situations in which the same provision of services carried out by the same health professional has a variable VAT rate and this calls into question the principle of fiscal neutrality. More: treatments imposed by the State itself, such as rabies vaccine and identification with subcutaneous microchip, are also taxed as a luxury property. But let's get to the root of the problem: all VAT must be low for veterinary medicine. That is why I am sure that, like all Portuguese, this Socialist Government will also agree with the parliamentary majority, that animal welfare is one of the flags that must be lifted, and will also lower the VAT rate. If this is not done, the highest cultural Marxist, which inspires the current government, will be "the animals that pay for the crisis". E, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, animals do not deserve to pay for the crisis. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u221	To present the draft law of the NAP, you have the floor of Mrs Inês Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u222	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the more than 8,000 petitioners who brought us this petition, and who provided this debate, in which the NAP is reviewed and whose requirements we fully subscribe. In addition, at this time when we saw increased inflation, we saw higher prices of goods and services, it is absolutely incomprehensible that, during the debate on extraordinary support measures, the Government, supported by this majority parliamentary group, did not even extend these measures to animal protection associations. It's just that we talked about numbers today. We have heard here actually talk about more than 50 % of the homes that have pets. It is our knowledge that the vast majority of these people are often older people, single people, who have only animals on their own, even affectionate ties, which, in fact, the European Convention for the Protection of Pets of Company recognizes that they are special to the human being, so we know that we are thus leaving them without social support. And fiscal justice, fiscal policy, must be a synonym for social justice. That is why it is incomprehensible that, in this country, exemption should be given to those who abuse animals, that a tour worker has exemption,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u223	Oh! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u224	... but a veterinary doctor, who is responsible, associations do not have access to services at affordable prices and must pay VAT at the maximum rate. It is not just a matter of luxury goods, it is a question of moralizing public policies, particularly tax policies. When it comes to knocking at the doors of the associations, when it asks for more than one hundred animals seized by accumulators, the State will knock at the door, but when it reaches out its hand, to whom does it extend its hand? custom lobbies, bullfighting — EUR 16 million per year —,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u225	Liar! It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u226	... to the hunting baronate — more than EUR 10 million. What about animal protection associations? There's no money. The argument is that VAT cannot be reduced because the directive does not allow it when the directive is being reviewed. Therefore, there is no kind of justification that, from this moment on, not only of the petition, but of the entire process of discussion in the field of specialty that we will have in this Assembly of the Republic, we cannot really relieve families, the caretakers of the colonies, the animal protection associations, for whom we have a real debt. It is that, in addition to families and there is a legal duty — either due to the animal's own status or under the Criminal Code — the State has a debt to the animal protection associations which, from North to South and the islands of this country, collect thousands of animals. Officially, there are more than 30 000 animals that we know are abandoned in the municipal canies. So we all have a moral duty to support them, and this is precisely when it comes to deciding and voting, lowering VAT from essential services, such as animal health, because there is only effective health.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u227	For an intervention, Mr Carlos Brás, Member of the Socialist Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u228	Ex. Mr. President, Ex.mas Sr.as and Mrs. Members: I would like to begin this speech by congratulating Mrs Liliana Sofia Bouça da Silva, whom we have already heard in October 2020, as well as the remaining 8173 subscribers for the initiative and persistence in the case. The petition under consideration begins with the phrase: ‘Veterinary acts are taxed at 23 %, considering themselves as a luxury. And immediately below it is said that "Portuguese who have animals and want them to be treated well by a matter, even public health, pay to treat their pets with a tax as if it were a luxury. Do not keep on seeking. ” It should be noted that the normal VAT rate is not a duty on products considered to be luxury, it is only the normal rate. But it is also important to clarify the following: acts of veterinary medicine are not all taxed in the same way. These acts constitute services and, as such, are subject to VAT. However, if they fall within the scope of item 4.2 of List I annexed to the VAT Code, they may benefit from a reduced rate of VAT.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u229	There it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u230	This appropriation is intended to cover the provision of services which contribute to agricultural and aquaculture production, i.e. medical acts in production animals. Outside the context of an agricultural production activity — i.e. in the case of veterinary medicinal products which do not contribute to the realization of an agricultural production activity, such as services relating to pet animals and company — the normal VAT rate, as provided for in Article 18(1)(c ) shall apply. that of the VAT code, for lack of framework in any of the funds contained in the lists annexed to this Code.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u231	And fiscal neutrality, where is it? Lack of neutrality!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u232	In this respect it is appropriate to highlight the European character of VAT and the limitations of the Member States. Of course, it should be noted that in accordance with Article 96. the VAT Directive shall apply at the same rate of VAT, i.e. the standard rate fixed by each Member State, to supplies of goods and services.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u233	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u234	By way of derogation from this legally established principle, the possibility of applying reduced rates referred to in Article 98 is provided for. only to the goods and services of Annex III to the Directive.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u235	Health care?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u236	And it is also evident from the case-law that the provisions derogating from a principle are of strict interpretation. More, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in a judgment of 18 January 2001 in a Commission case against Spain, by application of a reduced rate in tolls, the Court of Justice of the European Union has pointed out the exceptional nature of cases in which reduced rates are allowed to be applied. This doctrine was applied again in 2013, through the judgment of 17 January, also in a Commission proceeding against Spain. Therefore, the acts of veterinary medicine that do not affect animals that contribute to agricultural and aquaculture production are outside the normal rate of derogation. Let us now consider the question of medicines, which is also addressed in the petition in the following sentence: 'Considering that there are vaccines that protect essential animals and basic treatments. Do not keep on seeking. ” As far as this is concerned, Annex III to the VAT Directive, paragraph 3 thereof, provides for the possibility of applying a reduced rate to pharmaceutical products of the type normally used in health care, disease prevention and medical and veterinary treatment. On the other hand, and in complementarity, item 2.5 of List I annexed to the VAT Code also states that the transmissions of pharmaceutical and similar goods and their respective active substances are taxed at a reduced rate and no distinction is made between medicinal products for exclusive use in human medicine, for use solely in animals or for common use. In this way, the transmissions of goods for exclusive use in veterinary medicine as well as those for common use in animals and humans are considered included in the words 2.5. Clarified the situations of veterinary medical acts and clarified the question of medicines, it is important to go a little further. from my own experience and experiences I have been collecting, what can be concluded is that often in the issue of invoices relating to treatment for pets and pets, the medical treatments or acts of medicinal products or substances used are not discriminated against. In the provision of veterinary medicine services with the application or administration of medicinal products, if the transactions carried out are listed separately in the invoice, VAT must be paid at the rate corresponding to each of them individually. Otherwise, this separation in the invoice is not explicit, it is considered that the medicinal products are included in the provision of services, so the corresponding tax rate applies and that, in the case of pets or company, it is the normal VAT rate. Here, and after the relevant and necessary clarifications, we can conclude that the petition, only and only with regard to veterinary medical acts incidents on animals not affected by agricultural production, is not in harmony with the provisions of the VAT Directive, which binds the Portuguese State. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u237	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u238	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Although we defend that this discussion would make more sense within the framework of the State budget and also defend that, since we are discussing VAT taxation, it would be worth doing so - in a more comprehensive and comprehensive perspective, this is undoubtedly a debate which is needed, as has already been said, because of successive legislative changes in animal rights, now an area in which the PSD has historical responsibilities. I take this opportunity to recall that it was the action of the Social Democratic Party that the Assembly of the Republic approved in 1995 the first animal rights law of the authorship of Mr António Maria Pereira, who would be known as « the father of animal rights » in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u239	And it was a very well done thing! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u240	Well done, no doubt. But this is also a debate that is needed, because the growing relationship between man and pets is unquestionable, as all statistics and all studies reveal, as it is unquestionable that medical-veterinary care cannot be considered a luxury procedure, but rather a factor in promoting the protection of animal health and public health, which, as we all know, represents a burden, and a very heavy burden, for Portuguese families. in this context, the intention to reduce the rate of VAT in medical veterinary acts, underlying the petition and also the various legislative initiatives under discussion, is obviously a claim more than legitimate. Unfortunately, I repeat, unfortunately, this claim seems to be misleading in the directive on the common system of VAT, and this circumstance cannot be forgotten by Parliament. Furthermore, it was not by chance that in July 2021, the Assembly adopted the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 221 / 2021, recommending to the Government « (... ) that, in the review process of the VAT directive, it advocate the application of the reduced rate in medical veterinary acts in all Member States. Do not keep on seeking. ” However, this review was materialized by the amendments introduced by Council Directive ( EU ) 2022 / 542 — see, ladies and gentlemen. Members — 5 April of the current year, therefore, very few days ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u241	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u242	We do not have the consolidated version of this directive, but, among the amendments introduced in Annex III thereto, which allow for the application of reduced rates, unfortunately do not, according to our interpretation, include the medical veterinary acts and therefore, from our point of view, we maintain the same reservations as we have so far. In this respect, it would be of course interesting — although this is not the time for this debate — to know what the positions taken by the Portuguese Government in the context of the revision of the directive were in accordance with the resolution of the Assembly of the Republic to which I referred. It is a debate we will have at another time.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u243	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u244	at this time, it is important to emphasize that we are not, however, exempt from continuing to seek other ways to also promote the increase of preventive animal treatments, always thinking about public health and the environment. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Here arrived, and at a time when the Government is finalizing its organic law, this is the ideal time for the Executive to revert its previous decision to transfer the protection of pet animals from the Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u245	Never!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u246	... an entity with competence and experience in health and animal management for the ICNF (Instituto da Conservação da Nature et das Foresta), a institute which, Mr. President and Mr. Members, you have no specific knowledge in the area of pets.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u247	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u248	It was a wrong decision, against all technical and scientific opinions, which, in our view, seriously compromises the well-being and health of pets. [[Protests by PS MP Miguel Matos.]] It is therefore at the time of the government to return to its first form. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u249	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u250	Mr President, I would like to begin by welcoming the initiative of our fellow citizens who have submitted this petition and also the initiatives of the parties who, in accordance with it, propose to reduce VAT from veterinary care services to pet animals. In particular, the Free will vote in favour of the NAP and the Left Block proposals, which propose a 6 % decline, which is consistent with what we already had in our programme. It is not worth repeating several of the arguments that have been used here. We agree that this is a question of social justice for people who live with animals and who need, for reasons of comfort, to alleviate loneliness, for the most various reasons, people who sometimes have to refrain from access to other goods, because they want to give appropriate treatments to their animals, and even because unfortunately the prices of veterinary treatments, sometimes end up with the result that some people leave their pets. This is a problem that, for reasons relating to the welfare of animals and for reasons of public health, we should deserve the greatest concern. in this sense, the Free will also commit its efforts here, in the Assembly of the Republic, so that these changes can be reflected in the law. With regard to the speech of our colleague, Mr Carlos Brás of the Socialist Party, who told us that there are obligations in terms of European law, which make VAT rates regulated by the respective directive,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u251	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u252	... and so I will just fail to tell us - which initiatives in the Council of the European Union the Government, with the PS in its support, intends to take so that this directive can be adapted to these new times, also in terms of pets.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u253	Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u254	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We want, of course, to begin by welcoming the 8173 citizens who have subscribed to this petition. The initiative was presented to this House just over two years ago, and the time that the Assembly of the Republic has come here is certainly inseparable from the atypical context in how parliamentary work has been carried out in recent years, facing legislative processes of contingency, facing urgent needs in relation to the response to the pandemic crisis, etc. But at the end of this time we have come to a debate, a discussion that is not in fact new and we are facing a very concrete and objective proposal that has to do with the VAT rate in veterinary acts. However, the concrete reality that is felt by hundreds of thousands of people with pets is often of enormous difficulty in paying for expenses that are increasingly exorbitant in the care of their animals. The treatments that have to be done, the drugs and the surgeries that are needed, the consultations are often left to be done, because people have no money to ensure such care for their animals. However, the concrete experience leads us to have the evidence that this reality of pets, so important for the lives of so many people, is a reality around which, let us be frank, there is a millionaire business which, too here, takes advantage of the millionaire profits of a sense of belonging that people do not cease to face and that they cannot ignore. The question that we cannot fail to put to reflection is to what extent this millionaire business should or should not be faced and thought otherwise, in the response that the country can give to the needs that people have with their pets, for a very simple reason: is that we have seen several sectors of activity in our country in which the reduction of tax rates, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, you didn't feel in your wallet and in your bill that people pay. Therefore, this is an issue that we cannot ignore, that is, the business that is around this reality, so many times, does not pity, when presenting the bill to customers, users, people who present their animals for health care. And that is why we want to make a reference and value the relevant role of hundreds of institutions, with people of great dedication and generosity, for which the CFP has presented proposals over the years in order to increase and strengthen their support and the conditions for their intervention. We also take into account the fact that there are concrete and irreversible aspects that have to do with animal health and the real connection that is established, in a more general approach, with regard to public health, from the outset on in the question of vaccination of pet animals. So the question we are asking is whether the correctness and effectiveness of the measures indicated will in fact have the desired results, when the objective, in fact, is that people stop being confronted with exorbitant expenses to take care of their pets. This is a reflection which, of course, will not be left here, but to which we challenge all the parliamentary groups and all the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u255	Mr. Deputy used to be a mathematical accuracy to manage your time... Don't lose that quality. [[Laughing.]] Mr Pedro Frazão has the floor for a 17-second speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u256	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The majority of the Socialist Party may come with articles, may come with attachments, may come with amendments and with a somewhat round speech, but you must admit that this is merely a policy option for maintaining the maximum rate for medical and veterinary services.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u257	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u258	Therefore, either they approve our proposal or they do not approve it. There is here a question of justice for families holding pets, animals that are often also used in the work of the countryside, in the work of the rural world. But there is also a question of fiscal consistency here. At this time, a colleague of mine, a veterinary doctor, if he is to a farm whose owner has an agricultural undertaking, may pay an invoice of 6 % VAT, if he is to a farm to perform the same treatment to the same animal, who does exactly the same work or has the same end, but the owner does not have an agricultural undertaking, must pay an invoice of 23 % VAT. Where's the fiscal fairness here, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God! Sorry, but this doesn't exist. Once again, we are going to the root of the problem: for a matter of principle, health and medicine services should not be taxed on VAT. Veterinary medicine is a health service and should therefore not be taxed.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u259	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u260	In addition, until 1993 veterinary medicine was exempt from VAT. And, just to give some examples, Ireland rates veterinary medicine with 13, 5 %, Poland with 8 % and Luxembourg with 7 %. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u261	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u262	Mr President, the Socialist Party has come to tell us two things, the first of which is that European law is wrong, because it considers that animal relief, animal treatment is only valid when they are economic assets and not when they are sensitive. Therefore, this is the excuse that the Socialist Party gives to say "we can do nothing". The second thing, which comes from the first, is that the Socialist Party has done nothing about this. Portugal is not only a spectator of the European Union, Portugal has a role, it can discuss, can act, can defend and can say in the European Union that there is a law passed in the Assembly of the Republic which obliges people to something as humane as sensitive as caring for their animals. However, if the law obliges people to do so, if people are penalized for not doing so, it is incomprehensible that then another law imposes 23 % of such care. And they can say "good, but 23 % is not a luxury fee"... I would like to know where 23 % is not a luxury rate. This is the abuse of VAT and, in this abuse, both serves to pay for any car, any luxury goods, as well as the treatment of animals and the promotion of their well-being. It is incomprehensible and, above all, denotes a reluctance of the Socialist Party to give up and be consistent with what it has approved, which is the defense of animal welfare. There is consistency, go to the end with it and vote in favour of the bill of the Left Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u263	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the second item on our agenda is now concluded. Let us now move on to the debate of Petition No 185 / XIV / 2. a (António José Gonçalves Fonseca et al.) — By creating a financial support from the State for companies and bar entrepreneurs, establishments of spirits without show and establishments of drinks with or without dance space, whose petitioners are here, watching our work, and to whom I greet. This initiative will be evaluated together with, in general, the Bill No 58 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Reduction of VAT on food and drink services to the reduced rate of 6 % ( amendment to the value added tax code approved by Decree-Law No 394 - B / 84 of 26 December ). To present the draft law of the Liberal Initiative, Mr Rui Rocha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u264	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I should like to begin by greeting you, too. Petitioners. It has passed some time since the petition was filed, but I would say that it continues to have total relevance. So, what we have been presenting today is a bill aimed at reducing the VAT of food and beverage services to the reduced rate of 6 %. Making some history, in 2017, the Government of the Socialist Party introduced a legislative authorization, within the State Budget, in order to expand the application of the intermediate rate to other beverage services, extending it to beverages that were excluded. It follows that, like other legislative authorisations, this authorisation was transferred to the State budgets for 2018, 2019 and 2020 and then disappeared in the State budget for 2021, which has never been implemented. It is also important to bear in mind that the restoration sector, according to government data itself, suffered a breakdown in 2020, for example 41 % of its turnover, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and that at the moment it also faces its own difficulties resulting from the inflation process we know, the problem of supplies and the whole context we live in. It should be noted that the supply of food and drink services, excluding alcoholic beverages, soft drinks, juices, nectars and gastified or added water of carbon gas or other substances, is currently taxed at the intermediate rate, with the remaining supply of food and beverage services at the normal rate. It is therefore proposed that all food and drink services should be taxed at a reduced rate. It is also worth saying that a study commissioned by AHRESP (Association of the Hotelaria, Restoration and Similarities of Portugal) concluded that this measure could contribute significantly to avoiding the loss of 46 000 jobs. The Liberal Initiative considers that the change in VAT to the reduced rate of VAT in these services and in these drinks will make all the sense and will be an important contribution to the viability of the sector, which has suffered a lot in recent times and which deserves all respect and contribution from this House, in order to enable its economic recovery. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u265	For an intervention, Mr Filipe Melo of the Czech Republic has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u266	Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating you and the Members. Members, and by leaving a special greeting to the petitioners, who bring us such a topical and relevant subject. It was with some inconvenience—very unpleasant—that we saw that one of the sectors most affected by this pandemic, with more unemployment registered, has once again no reference by this Government in the State Budget for 2022. INE data, published by AHRESP, in the summer of 2020, account for 8100 companies registered in the sector using 17,500 employees and with an invoice volume of 600 million euros. Today, these companies are 6000 and I am very seriously afraid of the number of companies that will be active in this sector, if this government continues with this destructive budget policy in the area of the economy. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It is true that we have had two years with great restrictions, restricting these caused by a pandemic that no one could count on. It is true, but it is no less true that the government that has been in office during the pandemic is the same government that we now have, with an absolute majority, with the powers strengthened, and that, today, it remains without any proposal aimed at maintaining these companies, which aims at maintaining these jobs, which aims to maintain a decent, stable and fair job for these employees. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u267	How many measures do you want? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u268	This government is therefore called for muscular support for this sector, a really fragile sector hit by a pandemic that massacred it, which massacred all areas — it was transversal — but in particular, it did not even have the hypothesis of sales to the postage, as others had. These professionals had to close their doors and once again see this Budget disregarding a sector that has and is of particular importance for the future of the country. It is known, and it is important, that these companies have requested moratoriums for their spaces, moratoriums for these... [[Protests by PS MP Miguel Matos.]] And very well, Mr. Member, but it is important to realize that these moratoriums have already ended and it is important also to realize that the Socialist Government has forgotten that these moratoriums, an income of 2000 €, for example, now go up to €3500. And what were the support you gave to these companies? Zero! None! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u269	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u270	Is that how you want to support the sector? Wrong! Question, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, how many companies are going to endure these increases without the necessary support? In view of the absence of any reference to the sector in the Government's Programme and Budget, what once again reveals a great disregard for this sector, I ask: will or will not strengthen the APOIAR Programme in 2022? Do you or do you not intend to create a non-refundable cash fund, subject to maintenance and job creation, for this sector? Will they or will they not promote the reduction of the autonomous tax rates of IRC (tax on the income of the public) and the abolition of its aggravating in the event of tax injury? Will they or will they not promote the reduction of electricity, gas, water and fuel costs? Are you going to promote this or not? We don't expect an answer, because, that, you don't even have it! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u271	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Marcia Passos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u272	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Start this speech by complimenting the petitioners, in the person of the first petitioner, Antonio José Gonçalves Fonseca. This petition, which alerts to the need for the creation of a financial support from the State for companies and bar entrepreneurs, establishments of beverages with or without dance space, was presented in the previous Legislation, but remains fully current. The petition continues today because these companies were the first to be forced to close by the government office and were the last to reopen. Therefore, we cannot fail to give a word of encouragement and gratitude for the resilience, effort and spirit of sacrifice of all these entrepreneurs. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the petition keeps up to date because the recent reopening and slow resumption of its activities can even allow these entrepreneurs to start paying their current accounts again, but does not allow them to pay what is in debt. And you know why he doesn't? Because the Portuguese Government was one of those who, in the euro area, less supported the economy. Who said it and who said it was a study by the European Central Bank, which says that Portugal is 3. the euro area country which has spent less on combating the crisis. The same applies to studies of the International Monetary Fund and the European Commission. It also says the same thing a study by Oxford University, which says that Portugal, when compared to the other countries of the European Union, is in 5. the place between countries where less support has been granted to the economy. Behind Portugal, Mrs. Members, at the end of 2020, were only Estonia, Hungary and Ukraine. That is why the subject of this petition, unfortunately, remains current: because the government has come late and often only has arrived because it was obliged; and because if it was not the PSD, Mr. Members, micro-enterprises would not have been covered by support. I remember the Resolution Project No 788 / XIV / 2. the, submitted by the PSD. If it had not been the PSD bench, the individual entrepreneurs and the management partners had not been included in the support.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u273	Have you forgotten what you've been looking for in the PCP proposal?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u274	I also remember the Resolution Project No 1083 / XIV / 2. a and Draft Law No 336 / XIV / 1. a [[PCP and BE protests.]] Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! It was by the hand of the PSD! It's hard to hear, but it's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u275	It's hard to hear, but it's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u276	It was by the hand of the PSD that the deep-lost support to pay the commercial income was achieved and covered these entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u277	Look what the Assembly has files!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u278	Mrs. Members, I remember that the Socialist Party has always voted against all these legislative initiatives of the Democratic Social Party. He's always voted against! So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD will always continue to pay attention and will intervene whenever necessary for the country's economy to grow and for entrepreneurs, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises, to find ways to recover their economic activities, because it is in them that the push of the economy of our country and the subsistence of our families. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u279	Mr Hugo Carvalho, from the PS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u280	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: In view of the fact that we have talked about time questions here, it is very important to remember that two times ago in the discussion on this subject. There is, therefore, the formal time for discussion of this petition—and of course, I take advantage to greet the petitioners—as it has not been permitted to debate it until now, not because of the responsibility of each of us individually, but because collectively it was not possible to make the formal debate of this issue earlier in this House. There is only one 'but' in the time of this reply which allows us to debate this petition today, knowing what measures have existed and that there are to deal with the fair and legitimate expectations of the petitioners. This is where we must start the debate, taking into account the proposals, the realisations, today and the day when the petition was written. The truth is, there is a great collective effort. It's not an individual effort of anyone. There are no stirs here between which party must have the prizes in this process. What is a collective response effort, respecting those who have the responsibility to make political decisions and those who, with their businesses, seek to do their best to continue maintaining employment. When we are debating who is responsible for a measure — and many measures have agreed in this House — we are forgetting the great exercise we have done in combating the pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Party faces this issue with face-to-face. Yes, this was one of the sectors that most suffered the effects of the pandemic. It was the last one to open and that is also why he had a special affection in the public policies we carried out. Yes, this sector, contrary to what has been said, has been supported in some cases with increases in relation to others. Yes, this sector was supported and not only with moratoriums, it was not only with access to bank credits to provide liquidity, it was also supported to the bottom. And the Members who are today discussing this debate and who do not know this data, indeed, are not up to this point, before the more than 5,000 petitioners who have signed this petition.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u281	Are you the ones? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u282	Let me tell you why it is clear and it must be - facing these indicators - that this is a sector to which we seek to provide answers with respect and with ongoing dialogue with these institutions, because, I repeat, in order to respond to a difficult situation, we are all needed, we are all useful.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u283	We're all useful! ...that's conversation!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u284	This is because day after day we were confronted with scenarios that no one could anticipate. It was therefore with this sense of responsibility and in this joint effort that this sector had a support greater than EUR 175 million — and it is said, in particular, that EUR 123 million of this support was substantially lost. There are objective data on the success and failure of our action, which I repeat is not an isolated effort by the government and the parties of the various parliamentary banks, but a joint effort between civil society, entrepreneurs and the government. And there is one indicator that is clear, objective and factual: today, the sector has no loss of employment at the beginning of the pandemic.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u285	Where is there no job loss? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u286	But if there is no loss of employment, it is because, in fact, the political response, the effective response, the resilience and effort of the entrepreneurs were great and it is a sign that we have given the correct answer to this situation. [[CH protests.]] I cannot fail to record at the moment that these data are factual and objective. Dear and dear Members, as I said, it was a collective effort and no one should want to appropriate a flag. It was with respect for governance, with respect for the citizens, with respect for the entrepreneurs we did what should be done. And the results are in sight!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u287	Yeah, they are! The results are in sight!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u288	Mr President, I do not want you to be displeased with the good indicators for the Portuguese. You don't have to. Being displeased with good indicators for Portuguese is not a good reason.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u289	Every day they close companies! The data is public!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u290	Allow me, Mr President, a few seconds to refer to the proposal of the Liberal Initiative. I was surprised that the Liberal Initiative had taken an initiative on this point. However, I went through the Liberal Initiative Election Programme and did not find the proposal for a 6 % VAT reduction in the catering and beverage sector. Therefore, when a political party, in a debate on a petition signed by 5000 petitioners, seeks to bring a complex issue—which, as the PSD said at the previous point, must be debated in its own place, jointly and not isolated—that is, when the Liberal Initiative, in January this year, did not have this proposal in the electoral programme and soon afterwards found the opportunism to bring proposals to the kilo, even to the municipal assembly, this is a sign of the irresponsibility with which this bench is facing this parliamentary debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, he took the presidency of Vice-President Adam Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u291	I greet the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We shall immediately give the floor to Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u292	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Let us begin by congratulating the subscribers of the petition that bring this subject to the discussion in the Assembly of the Republic on the creation of financial support for companies and bar entrepreneurs, establishments of spirits without show and establishments of beverages with or without dance space. The problem that results from the epidemic impacts, which were very significant in economic activity and in this sector in particular. The truth is that we are talking about a set of impacts that are still present today and that require answers so that economic activity can be recovered and safeguarded, such as jobs. It is important to support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in our country, since they are the basis of our economic activity. But that cannot be for proclamations. It must be concrete, with options and concrete measures, with intervention and concrete solutions. What happens is that, when the CFP brings either, as we have brought in the context of the epidemic, a set of concrete measures to support micro and small enterprises, whether they are permanent measures for this sector, which has obtained from the most varied political forces in the Assembly of the Republic is the refusal of these measures. If they had been approved, this sector would surely be in a completely different situation today. It is a fact that the support provided by the Government has been insufficient and limited. In many cases, they were even used to prevent many micro and small enterprises from accessing these support, many being excluded from the restrictive criteria. There were delays in the allocation of support, in which cases they were granted. There were difficulties in contacting public services, including social security, the Tax Authority and the IAPMEI, which is not disconnected from the lack of workers in these services. in this epidemic period, I mentioned here, the CFP brought a set of concrete proposals. I intervene not only to create measures to ensure that the various economic activities can be carried out — obviously, under security conditions — but also through concrete support for economic activity, whether as regards income, or as regards the elimination of all restrictions preventing access to such support. We're talking about concrete aspects that could have been completely different. In addition, in the State budget for 2021, following the adoption of a proposal from the CFP, the non-discrimination of support for companies was included, which was proposed to prevent the regulation from preventing the access of micro and small enterprises to public support. We regret that the Government has not complied with this proposal, which has been approved. As I was saying, many micro and small businesses have not yet recovered their economic activity and are already experiencing new difficulties due to the use of the economic groups of war and sanctions, price increases, inflation rates and energy increases.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u293	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u294	I will finish, Mr. President. Finally, Mr President, what I want to leave here is the CFP's commitment to continue to intervene in support of micro and small enterprises. There is a fundamental issue that we have raised — and our proposal has not merited the support needed by other political forces — which is the creation of a treasury support fund for micro and small enterprises to support their activities and protect jobs. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u295	For an intervention by the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u296	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I congratulate the petitioners, in particular Mr António Fonseca, the first petitioner. The honourable Member of the Liberal Initiative has brought us here a history of VAT which has a little bit of a starting point. It is that the history of the VAT of the restoration began before. It began as soon as the Government of José Socrates increased the maximum VAT rate and continued when the Government of the PSD and the CDS rose the VAT rate of the restoration, which was partially reversed in the past, not yet covering the beverages. A short time ago, we discussed the VAT of the activity of veterinary doctors. in other circumstances, we discuss the VAT of electricity. I believe that sooner than later we will come to the conclusion that the problem here is that the normal VAT rate is a luxury rate and that it is too high for the structure of the Portuguese economy. Yes, there should be a fee that could differentiate luxury goods from normal goods — normal to the functioning of the economy — particularly those we are talking about, goods and services. It has already been said here that the restrictions on the pandemic have been lifted, but this sector is one of the most affected by the pandemic, not only because it has suffered these measures for a longer time, being shut down longer, but also because it now suffers the impact of the measures it was supposed to have on the impact of the pandemic. In other words, when the Government refused to support the economy — having a budget and a majority for it in the Assembly of the Republic — it refused to increase support and transformed Portugal into one of the countries that had less support for the economy, it threw small and medium-sized enterprises into the bank or payment moratoriums. This created a certain relief at the time of the pandemic and at the time of interruption of the activity, but created a problem today, because these credits have to be paid today, because many companies are now more indebted than they were, because the rent moratoriums have to be paid today and these values are added today. Therefore, not confronting these companies the very same problem that they faced at the time of the interruption of their activity, they now face new problems and new pressures that can be maintained despite the recovery of the activity we have witnessed. And that is why I wanted to leave here the commitment of the Left Block, which is available to support the support measures for this sector, the support measures for small and micro-enterprises, all support measures to maintain jobs in this and other sectors, in particular through support for the treasury of small businesses now faced with a flow of payments that did not exist in the past. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u297	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u298	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are here to discuss a petition asking for support for a certain sector of restoration, namely bars, and a proposal, which arrives from the Liberal Dragging Initiative, to reduce the VAT rate on this sector. In other words, the sector asks for something, the Liberal Initiative gives something different, even though it is not on the electoral agenda. This should not surprise us, because I fear that one day someone will see someone twisting a foot on the street and the Liberal Initiative, instead of offering a hand, offer a drop of taxes to those who have just twisted their feet on the street. [[PS and CH rice.]] Dear Colleagues, not always a tax drop is the answer to everything. And here, in a sector that has already suffered from the pandemic, to which support is delayed, but which needs to be supported in incomes, in the increase of inflation, we need to demonstrate willingness to discuss what was in fact in the petition and what the petitioners bring here, and the Livre has already demonstrated its willingness to meet them and to look at how we can deal with the increasing costs that inflation brings. At the same time, it is true that not all tax cuts—and we have just defended one in the medical-veterinary services now—are reflected on the final cost that taxpayers will pay. Not all tax cuts result. I think it would be nice to learn that.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u299	Let us now give the floor to Mr Rui Rocha of the Liberal Initiative for a second speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u300	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would begin by telling Mrs Mariana Mortágua that this will then be a third time we agree and is therefore worthy of registration.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u301	Calm down!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u302	We also agree that there is a need for a reduction in taxes, particularly VAT, so we have an agreement there that I would like to express.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u303	Let's start with the spill!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u304	That's the way it is, and we have to recognize it. As far as Mr Rui Tavares is concerned, I would like to tell him that we are, in fact, generally insisting on the question of the reduction of taxes. The honourable Member asks whether this always works or not. The point is that we have systematically seen tax increases and, on these, we are sure that they don't work at all, so we like to try a tax drop. [[Applause from the IL.]] With regard to the PS comment, I would like to thank the honourable Member for the effort he has made in reading the six hundred pages of our programme — I am sure it has benefited him! - but I meant that there is life beyond him. So this is not a measure that we have come to now. If the honourable Member had made an effort beyond the reading of the programme, with the reading of the proposals presented by the Liberal Initiative in the past legislature, he would have seen that in 2020 this proposal was therefore not a discussion to which we have come. We are and will always be on the side of tax relief, particularly in the restoration activity, which needed it then and now needs not to be subject to the tax burden it is subject to. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u305	The Bureau does not record any more entries and, therefore, we have concluded this debate. We are now moving to the fourth item on today's agenda, in which we will generally debate Law No 5 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 73 / 2021 of 12 November, together with, in general, Bills No 34 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Renews the restructuring of the Portuguese Border Control System under Law No 73 / 2021 of 12 November, restating the organic structure and missions of the Foreign and Border Service, and 37 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Repeals the extinction of the Foreign and Border Service. The government is already between us and we have information that whoever will use the word, to present the bill, is Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, José Luís Carneiro. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u306	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let me say that the first time I am engaged in executive functions before this Parliament, I can first of all transmit the absolute availability so that, on such a sensitive subject, we can continue to develop a dialogue that is cooperative, with a view to an institutional transition capable of ensuring security and confidence in this restructuring process. I reaffirm the availability not only of me, but also of the State Secretaries accompanying me, so that this dialogue can be as fruitful as possible in defending the interests of the country, because national security is the first and most priority objective of the State — not only in what security has to aim at, but also subjectively, perception. That is why I would like to say a second word, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Internal administration and national security are all a sovereign function and, being a sovereign function, it deals with that which is the most important issue in safeguarding citizens' freedoms, rights and guarantees. That is why I appeal to the ladies and gentlemen. Members for this dialogue to be held always with a sense of state and with a deep conviction that we are dealing with one of the most relevant matters for the safeguarding of the freedoms, rights and guarantees of the citizen and in confidence in the democratic-based state. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The proposal that the Government submits to Parliament's assessment has to do with the assessment that has been developed by the Government of the state of maturation of the changes that are under way and which seek to meet various objectives. First of all, the aim of implementing the international commitments of the Portuguese State, both within the framework of the Migration Pact and within the framework of the Portuguese Presidency of the European Union, which took the desire to participate in the European process of strengthening the Frontex, but also to create an agency for migration and asylum. Secondly, to ensure in the country that it is a concomitant goal to safeguard fundamental human rights for those who seek us to live, to invest, to work and to do their lives with dignity - such as the 5.7 million emigrants and Luso-descendants we have in different parts of the world, very rightly recognized in the intervention of the President of the Assembly of the Republic at the commemorations of 25 April. And just as we want our fellow citizens in 187 countries of the world to have conditions of reception and integration with dignity, we also want it to happen with those who are looking for our country. Thirdly, do so - and at the same time - with the objectives of the State to ensure international commitments within the framework of the European Union as regards the security of borders and the safeguarding of this external commitment of the Portuguese State as a State responsible for the European Union's external border. But we want to do so with the involvement of representatives of the workers and officials of the Foreign and Border Service ( SEF ), seeking to ensure that this transition occurs in safeguarding their fundamental rights, including their status, their career and the recognition of that status and career. This is therefore an ongoing process, which has varying levels of maturation depending on the areas of dialogue with the different security forces and services. Therefore, because we understand that there are different levels of maturation and because we want to promote a safe, calm transition, which gives rise to confidence in the actors of this transformation and this institutional change, the Government understood to submit a proposal to the Assembly of the Republic so that Law No. 73 / 2021 only produces effects by height of the installation of the Portuguese Agency for Migration and Asylum ( APMA ). It is a proposal that compatibles these values which I have just underlined. We therefore naturally look forward to the adoption by this Parliament of a proposal which aims to safeguard fundamental values and, at the same time, to guarantee the external commitments of the Portuguese State, particularly to ensure a safe transition, a smooth transition that will allow the involvement and participation of all those who have responsibilities in this area. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u307	The Bureau shall not register entries for requests for clarification from the Minister. [[Pause.]] After all, we have two inscriptions. I suppose Mr. Minister will answer once and for all. [[Pause.]] It's good that the ladies. Members are enrolled during the speech of the speaker, because otherwise we have to stop the work for some time. [[Pause.]] The Bureau registered three Mrs. Members to put questions to the Minister. As you can see, the Minister no longer has time, but the Socialist Party, parimonious, and well, has just handed over one minute of his time to the Minister. So, with all the embarrassments you're seeing, you're going to ask Mr. Minister questions. Deputies João Cotrim de Figueiredo, Pedro Filipe Soares and Rui Tavares. The honourable Member of the Liberal Initiative João Cotrim de Figueiredo, therefore, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u308	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of Internal Administration, for the Liberal Initiative, which in November last year fought against the extinction of the SEF, the Minister asked to postpone this extinction further 180 days is not necessarily bad news. What is bad news is that this eventual postponement will cause us to take another six months to realize the true ashtray that is to extinguish the SEF, because what we are going to be doing is to eternalize a process in which, to respond to complaints of delays, corruption, serious abuses of the SEF, the government, instead of trying to solve the problem by reforming the SEF, decides to extinguish it and to spread its competences by five entities, four of them already existing and that do not première by contact and ease of communication between themselves, and a fifth entity that does not yet exist and, by sight, still no one knows when it will exist, which is the most famous agency for migration and asylum. Therefore, this delay may actually correspond to the eternalization of the agony of extinction with a date yet to be defined. It is also bad news because this indefinition will continue to produce, in the frameworks of what was the SEF, disorientation and demotivation, causing us, week after week, to receive news from people leaving the SEF — 43 inspectors preferred to go to work for the Frontex and other important SEF frames have come out. Therefore, the capacity of the SEF to provide a good service, wherever its competences go, is already compromised. It is also bad news because this process is further evidence, if necessary to demonstrate, that the PS does not know how to deal with such matters, because it argues that the extinction of the SEF had to happen because it was foreseen in the Government Programme. The PS did not use the diagnosis, it did not make a plan, as it is in sight, that could be executed, but then, when it comes to delay its extinction, guilt, alternatively, the pandemic, the dissolution of Parliament and now, until the war of Ukraine — blames everything but the PS! Nothing happens in this country that is the fault of the Socialist Party! Finally, this is bad news for all those who depend on a truly effective border service: firstly, people who seek our country and who have the right to have a reception and integration in conditions and without delay; secondly, those who need, in several sectors of our economy, of labour, more or less qualified, in order to have a border service capable of implementing a truly successful migration strategy; thirdly, those who seek us as tourists, who, I have no doubt, once again this summer will have endless rows and rows at our airports or cruises. Therefore, Minister, the clarification that you were asking for is the following: tell us, please, that we may be given the good news, instead of these various bad news, that you are considering reversing this wrong decision which was that of the extinction of the SEF. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u309	Before giving the floor to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, I inform you that Mr Rui Paulo Sousa has also taken part in asking Mr Minister a question from the parliamentary group of arriving. I now give the floor to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u310	Mr President, Mr Minister and Mr Minister, Mr and Mr. Members, Minister, the Left Block voted in favour of the extinction of the SEF and did so conscientiously, with certainty of the consequences that would come there and with a very firm political position. For us, immigration is not a police issue and therefore it should never have been created a police force to take care of immigration issues. But today's debate and, above all, the use that the right will make of it was avoidable. It would be avoidable if the previous government had done what it was willing to do when we discussed in the Assembly of the Republic the law whose entry into force would be postponed for at least six months. The only thing I want to ask the Minister, and the Minister too, is whether, during the year 2022, we will actually have the end of the SEF and the creation of a new administrative entity to deal with immigration processes, because for us — and I will finish as I began — immigration is not a police matter. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u311	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u312	Mr President, Minister, Minister, Minister, dear and dear colleagues, we know what brought us here and it is not necessary to mention the tragic events that happened under the protection of the SEF to remind us that for many years many complaints have been made that Portugal has not complied with what, even by international instruments it has signed, should have complied with, and that it was to ensure that the first contact point of an immigrant, a refugee, an asylum seeker or a foreigner in a country was not a police officer. There is a place for the police at the borders, there is a place for the research police and security police in the management of migratory flows or, for example, in the investigation of asylum seekers files, but immigration and human flows are generally complex and, as regards their integration into the host society, they should not be police matters. This postponement, for us, is only understood if it is also an opportunity to correct what seems to us to be a mistake. So I ask you: with regard to the creation of a Portuguese agency for migration and asylum, with which we fully agree, because it is already late, where should it be created? If we are told that it should be created in the MAI (Ministry of Internal Administration ), i.e. in the ministry of the police, then we consider that we do not use this delay to correct this error.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u313	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u314	This agency must be set up anywhere else, such as in the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security or in any other ministry other than the police.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u315	Mr Rui Paulo Sousa has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u316	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Minister, there are two things that are indisputable: the lack of human resources in the PSP ( Public Security Police ) and in the GNR ( Republican National Guard ) and the wage gap between these police forces and the SEF inspectors. So I ask you: given the increased powers of these police forces, and knowing that there was also a lack of human resources in the SEF, how do you intend to ensure that the existing imbalances will not be accentuated? Or better, are you gonna take cops out of the streets to control the borders? And how do you intend to reduce the wage gap and the rights between SEF inspectors and PSP and GNR agents? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u317	You have the floor—for something which only he can ask himself—Mr. Minister of Internal Administration. It has 51 seconds to answer these four gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen who just asked questions. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u318	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, first of all, I would like to note that the explanatory statement of the bill is clear on some of the causes that have limited the action of the Government — the legislative elections, the repetition of the elections in the electoral circle of Europe and also the beginning of an armed conflict, which, of course, brought a level of complexity from the logistical point of view and from the point of view of support for migration flows which have limited the capacity to act and implement the government. Secondly, it is important to make it clear that we have tried here several times to let an idea about the deadline for implementation. The statement of reasons does not state an execution period because there is a caution that has to exist is, of course, in accordance with which this transition takes place. Therefore, no period is determined for its implementation. The implementation, more than a temporary goal, must correspond to the security conditions of the country and to a transition that is secure, solid and consistent to give confidence in the institutions and the rule of democratic law. On the issues raised by other parties, particularly where the Agency for Migration and Asylum will be set up, within days the organic structure of the Government will be published, and it can be found that Mr. Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs will have this dimension of integration and reception, while everything that is a police dimension will remain with the PSP and the GNR and what has to do with criminal investigation will remain with the Judicial Police ( PJ ).
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u319	You must conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u320	In fact — and I conclude, Mr President — this is in line with the expression of the majority of this Parliament. If we consult the upper party, we find that the vast majority of political parties have spoken out in order to separate the police from the administrative functions of integration and reception.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u321	Not even the PS beats!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u322	We will now move on to the stage of the presentation of bills. To submit Bill No. 34 / XV / 1. Mr Pedro Pinto has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u323	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill we present is easy and quick to present—it aims to reverse the extinction of the SEF. The dismantling of the SEF is an excellent example of how government action should not be. We are faced with an unwise decision, but this government is still in time to revert. It was a whim of Minister Eduardo Cabrite, not even capricho, it was, yes, when the former Government of Antonio Costa had to sell the soul to the devil, which is the same thing as selling the soul to the extreme left, in particular to the Block of Left. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Ending with the SEF is leaving the country at risk, particularly at our borders. We have to control who enters the country. With a war in Europe, it becomes easier to enter criminals mixed with people who actually come running from a war that no one wanted, but who continues to have those who do not condemn it. Yes, we say that criminals can enter because, without control, they can all enter, without knowing who they are and what they are coming to do, in the good socialist way.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u324	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u325	Sometimes this happened, particularly in the Algarve, with those migrants who came from Morocco from iPhone in their hand, not to escape a war but only to enter Portugal and disappear mysteriously. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Let us remember that Eduardo Cabrita — we do not know whether or not he was aware of it — one day after he announced his resignation, he decorated the SEF with the Medal of Distinct Public Security Services, but before he had already given the prize to terminate the Foreign and Border Service. These workers, men and women, do not need decorations. They have been drifting since July 2021, not knowing what to do to their lives, without direction, to see where they work being replaced by, imagine, an asylum agency. First, it was just a restructuring and then it became an extinction. Now, a few months ago, they put PSP and GNR into training. It is to cry out to the heavens a three-month formation can replace an institution that has existed for 35 years! [[Congrats from the CH.]] We look at our security forces and what we see is a terrifying scene of abusive and assaulted agents, with the bandits going through impunity — yes, bandits, and, as much as they don't like the word, this parliamentary group will always call out bandits to the bandits! -,... [[Congrats from the CH.]] ... and with the unconditional cars, unable to provide assistance and security to the populations, as seen in the interior of the country, with a patrol for 100 km2. We have a lack of human resources, and it just doesn't see who doesn't want to see. We do not have the conditions to extinguish the SEF without questioning the security of the country. There are dozens even of letters from PSP and GNR associations and unions that we have been asked to fight for the non-extinction of the SEF. These men and women know that only arriving is on their side, only arriving is in their fight. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us turn from having only one entity to control our borders to have five entities competent in this area is the perfect recipe for failure, with more bureaucracy, more delays, more impediments and more difficulties that only reflect less security for the citizens. Does the SEF need to be improved? Yeah, you need to, but you don't need to be extinct. The Internal Security Observatory — the observatories, so pleased by the Socialists — refers to the following: « (...) a whole new system of border management that is wrong, and for which the forces and security services are not prepared or trained, which, objectively, is a drastic decrease in the internal security standards of our country, exposing us to external threats, enhanced even by the war situation experienced in Ukraine. » It is not enough to say it, but yes, the Internal Security Observatory. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u326	Finally, I wanted to say that the justification for delaying the extinction of the SEF is not perfect. The blame was for the rejection of the State budget for 2022 or of the COVID; now, the excuse is war. Have the courage to tell the truth. The only thing this government doesn't mean is that this was just another 'headhead' and that now it really wants the SEF to continue. In fact, in 2007, and it is good that the memory does not fade when he was Minister of Internal Administration of José Socrates — yes, José Socrates, I do not know if they remember who he was —, Antonio Costa was against the extinction of the SEF. We know that Minister José Luís Carneiro is a man of cause, he was already President of the Baião Municipal Chamber. Now, it's all the Portuguese people you need. For the future of our country, of our children and grandchildren, for Portugal, the Portuguese thank you. [[Congrats from the CH, with Members standing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u327	To submit Bill No. 37 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), Mr Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u328	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the last legislation, the Government has decided to terminate the Foreign and Border Service by distributing its current duties to five entities: the foreign and asylum service, to be established, the Institute of Registers and the Notary, the Judicial Police, the Public Security Police and the Republican National Guard. The CFP did not agree with this claim and voted against the proposed government law. We understand that this proposal was hasty, reactive and, instead of contributing to the solution, it has created new problems. There was no lack of warning for what is confirmed today. This is a process that is born wrong, because it was only an avous reaction to the horrible crime that was practised against a Ukrainian citizen while he was in the SEF facility. This extinction was not included in the PS program and it was just a typical flight forward, which not only solved no problem as it caused the consequences of the crime to fall on the whole institution and on all the elements that integrate it. This is not fair and cannot be a way to extinguish institutions when their elements practice crimes. The answer to what has happened should be a serious and rigorous investigation, the condemnation of those responsible and, indeed, the adoption of organisational measures so that none of this will happen again. As regards what has been proposed by the Government, our opposition is obviously not to the separation of police functions from administrative functions within the SEF, nor do we ignore the fairness of the reasons put forward by the Government to separate them. In fact, we always defend that separation. Migration is not a police case, it is not a crime, it makes no sense to treat everything that has to do with the legal status of foreigners as a police matter. The example of the citizen's card is perhaps the most obvious: does it make sense for a national citizen to renew his citizenship card at the Institute of Registers and the Notary, in a citizen's store, and a non-national citizen has to use a police service to request or renew his residence permit? We don't think so. But what was done was not to deal with this through a process shared and reflected, it was pure and simply extinguishing the SEF. The Government extinguished the SEF by Law No 73 / 2021, which should have entered into force on 12 January 2022. Obviously, this did not happen, and soon the various difficulties arose so that the CFP alerted in due course. These same difficulties led the Government to propose an amendment to the law, so that the entry into force would take place only on 12 May. However, the SEF was in an unsustainable situation, and the recent resignation of the National Director is reflected in this. The SEF is today a paralysed institution, with all the consequences that this has for citizens who need to solve problems related to their stay in Portugal. As we have said several times, instead of trying to understand how the SEF could extinguish, it would be better if the government were concerned about creating conditions so that the SEF could work, since the difficulties created to a large extent by the shortage of human resources are well known.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u329	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u330	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, now, to the second postponement we are discussing here, it is time to acknowledge that it was a mistake, a precipitation. In fact, the argument put forward by the government to postpone again only confirms the warnings we have made. The extinction was a mistake and the government has already realized, but it does not want to recognise and therefore throws forward a vicious process at the start. The PCP brings here a bill that fixes the error. This is a proposal to prevent the waste of experience and knowledge of land, all the relevant role in international cooperation, which the SEF plays and an accumulation of intervention in such complex areas as combating illegal immigration networks or trafficking in human beings; to prevent it from being ignored that the SEF agents have a specific training, different from the security forces and services by which they will be divided if the government persists in error; to prevent the volume of difficulties already affecting forces and security services, to ensure the various functions they are charged; to prevent what this would mean, in terms of difficulties in integrating the SEF elements and their work. We cannot see a situation that, in addition to causing damage to the country in terms of internal security, translates into enormous instability for the SEF elements, which have not been aware of their future and what their framework or socio-professional status. The CFP proposal proposes to repeal the legislative amendments adopted in the context of the SEF extinction process and to reinstate the rules repealed in order to maintain the legal and operational status of the SEF.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u331	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u332	In conclusion, the proposal of the CFP, which the PSD has put forward for amendments, which we obviously follow,... [[PCP laughter.]] ... guarantees conditions of serenity to make decisions that are required to properly separate the police from the administrative functions. Mr President, I conclude by saying that the proposal of the CFP is the one that best serves the country, the elements of the SEF, the forces and security services in general, but above all it is the only way to preserve, at the same time, the internal security and a collective, unacceptable commitment to improve the Foreign and Border Service, an essential service for the country and for whom it travels to be able to live here. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u333	For an intervention, Mr André Coelho Lima has the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u334	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in this debate we will try to align ourselves with what brings us here, which is not yet, taking into account the delay that is being requested, the reflection on the SEF and its importance in the internal security system. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much. Members of the Government and I apologize for not having done so at the outset, the questions put to him earlier, answered with the explanation of reasons for the bill. It is precisely about the expositions of reasons, there are several expositions of reasons, which we want to reflect, because they say a lot about why we are here. In the first postponement requested by this Parliament, the following was said: « Considering the evolution of the epidemiological situation in Portugal (...), the need to strengthen border control is envisaged. » Take a good look! On 24 November, the Government, or rather the Socialist Party on behalf of the Government, submitted here a request for postponement of the entry into force of the law of extinction of the SEF because of the COVID. This, in November, when, a month earlier, the proposed extinction of the SEF had entered this Parliament as if the COVID existed in November and did not exist in October. This is 'to cover the sun with the sieve', it is to blind people's eyes and hide what is behind it all, which is the Government's deepest incompetence in dealing with this matter. But there is more, which is the new argument. What's the new argument? In fact, there are two of them, and the Minister referred to them very well. First of all, the lead of the State budget and, secondly, the war of Ukraine. Let's go to them. First, the lead of the State Budget. All right, it is said in the explanatory statement of the bill, dated 22 April, the following: "The rejection of the proposal for the State budget has conditioned the activity of the outgoing Government, limiting the implementation of structural measures. » Right, and we can understand that. What we could not understand is that when the government asked for the postponement in November, the Budget had already been dropped in October on 27 October. Ministers, and in the past three weeks, you here present a request for postponement and do not use the budget lead as an argument. But why? How is that possible? In other words, at the time when the budget had already been dropped, when they already knew that there would be elections, did they not have this argument yet? They're looking for the argument you're more handy. Now comes the argument of the war of Ukraine, that, yes, contemporary and that they could not have used before. But he has a detail, a particular curiosity. The government says: « the new situation arising from the armed conflict situation in Ukraine, with demanding humanitarian, logistical and border control implications, generated by new migration flows, determined that it would not be possible to implement within the time frame for reformulation of the security forces and services regime. Do not keep on seeking. ” In other words, what we have here is to verify, in the voice of the Government itself, what would be from Portugal, what would be from the Portuguese Government, what would be from the entry of 33 000 refugees from Ukraine, the war of Ukraine and the catastrophic situation we are living in, what would be of all this if the government had managed to do what it was not able to do, which was to extinguish the SEF. What would it be? It would be a tragedy, of course. recognizing that it would be a tragedy, the government is recognizing the usefulness of maintaining the SEF. It is curious how in his own words it is the government that admits that without the SEF it would be a tragedy and that with the SEF we are dealing well with the situation here in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u335	But the functions didn't go away!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u336	Finally, Mr President, and in conclusion, I would like to ask the Minister of Internal Administration the following: what to do now with this situation? What to do with this argumentative confusion that, in fact, only hides the disorientation and disorganization that is going on in the government? The government now comes — with some humility, I must say — to ask for a new postponement, the second. This is sine die: we have no time limit, let's see. Having no time limit means that we have time, not to retreat, Minister, but to rest. In fact, I mean more: we had scheduled for today at 1. the Commission, a requirement to hear a number of entities involved in this matter, which we have withdrawn, so that no pressure is made on the government and the weighting that is now to take place. And it must take place, Minister, because we have a new government, we have a new Parliament, with a different configuration, and we also have a new Minister of Internal Administration. This means that, not speaking in retreats or setbacks, but speaking in debate in this parliamentary seat, in reflection within the Council of Ministers and in the time now which you are asking for and which we are going to grant, we have a chance to rest. We have always been against the extinction of the SEF, so we will allow that time, we will make the claim that we are required. We have time, Minister, to do what matters. Finally, as Mr Minister has finished, I will say that this is a matter of sovereignty, it is a matter of state, and in such matters the PSD knows very well to fulfil its role, which is to be next to the solution that best benefits the internal security system, which is the maintenance of the SEF. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u337	For an intervention, Mrs Susana Amador has the floor by the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u338	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs Minister, Mrs. Members: The ongoing reform is - indeed, of a complex nature - we have never ebbed it — sensitive and comprehensive, but from the outset it has been a planned reform, a programmatic reform, a strategic reform with a global perspective, in particular in coherence with the global pact for United Nations migration. That is, it has never been torn apart, it has never been a reaction; it has always been a thoughtful reform and also the object of proper auscultation. Changing how the Public Administration relates to immigrants and refugees is a commitment, it is an ethical and political imperative of the Socialist Party, which was, in fact, supported by the Portuguese. The paradigm change that is imposed on this restructuring requires, as in any reform, political will and courage, that have never lacked the Socialist Party, the governance and the Prime Minister, António Costa. In fact, in recent years we have ruled in an unprecedented pandemic disaster framework, which has generated successive states of emergency. Exceptional measures have been taken to support families and businesses, which have allowed them to maintain a high level of employment; a vaccine coverage of more than 92, 5 % of the population has been guaranteed; a Portuguese Presidency of the European Union has been prepared; and Portugal has been the first to present its PRR and one of the first to see it approved. All of this, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it says a lot about the ability, tenacity and courage of the PS and, above all, of the Portuguese people.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u339	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u340	The proposed law that is being discussed today, above all, aims to ensure that this restructuring, in all its dimensions, works in the preservation and safeguarding of values, for us, truly essential. The first value is that of defending the human rights of refugees and migrants who choose Portugal to protect and welcome them, those who choose Portugal to live, work and invest. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u341	Secondly, as regards the security value in the transfer of SEF police functions to our security forces, there will be no void, Mr Coelho Lima. The functions of the SEF will be fulfilled by the other security forces, which, in fact, have already executed them in a complementary way. So there is this concern about the value of security. Since November 2021 — not worth squambling, they are not excuses, but rather objective conditioners — the pandemic has caused pressure on the entire Public Administration as well as on security forces and services. We cannot ignore that we have had extraordinary and unpredictable events that have altered the situation and have withdrawn the activity of the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u342	Looks like the PCP tape!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u343	We have had early elections and also the repetition of the electoral act in the circle of Europe — and the justification for this repetition is due much to the PSD! — which caused about two months to stop. [[Protests by PSD Member Hugo Carneiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u344	It hurts your conscience!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u345	And we have the war in Ukraine, an international event with great material and human devastation, which, as you know, humanitarian and logistically caused the exodus of more than 5 million Ukrainian refugees, with 33 000 applications for temporary protection in Portugal. That is why the new team for this area has again heard trade unions, security forces and services, all the services involved, in a logic of open dialogue and transparency. Let it be absolutely clear that the political objectives of this reform and of this transformation remain intact, that the essential rights of workers will be assured and that it will advance, not by reaction to a dramatic event, not by political theism, but, because it serves fair purposes, will serve just causes, will improve public service and its quality,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u346	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u347	... will concentrate resources and powers of a police nature on security forces and on research reserved for the Judicial Police to combat trafficking in human beings and related crimes. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u348	Say everything and don't say anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u349	We are sure that the Government will continue to guarantee this primary function of security, not only in internal terms, but also in our commitments with the international institutions, to safeguard the external border of the Portuguese State, and the commitments we have, intact, with the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u350	Just talk to fill up!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u351	The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will continue to monitor the implementation of this reform in the Government Programme, recently approved in this Parliament, which implies appropriate and prudent inter-ministerial work. Mrs. Members, it is a reform that we consider to be central to the humanization of the services and care of our immigrants and refugees, of which the new European Union Agency for Asylum will be a means of change, which we want to be calm, fair, effective and guided by the primacy of human rights and internal and international security, always in search of the just cause and just forms. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u352	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares spoke for one speech by the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u353	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Minister, Mr. Members: The extinction of the SEF can and should be successful, because Portugal needs to have a policy of migration and reception of migrants—from whom we are visited—of the first world, which respects human rights and complies with the principles of the United Nations. The extinction of the SEF can and should go well, because there will be no legal void in the diploma that emerged from this House, ensuring: on the one hand, the protection of borders; on the other hand, the fight against crime and trafficking in human beings; and on the other hand, the safeguarding of the rights of an administrative entity in the fulfilment, I repeat, of what is instituted by the United Nations. The extinction of the SEF can and should go well, because we believe and trust that the PSP, the GNR, the Judicial Police and the APMA will meet the challenge. We do not distrust the lack of PSP, GNR, PJ, as does arrive. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] In fact, it was enough for the arrival to have a machine that would detect, in people: iPhones, and they went out on one side; value in the purse or bank account, and went out on another; skin color, and went to another place. That would be enough! So I don't even understand the difficulty of skills for a machine like that. We know that taking a policy of people's reception seriously has a requirement that can and should go well. But, Mr Minister and Mr Minister, if it fails to succeed, the mandate given by the Left Block when it voted in favour of the law for the extinction of the SEF, for the creation of the Portuguese Agency for Migration and Asylum and the segmentation of the SEF police competences between PSP, GNR and PJ will also be a reason for charging the government with what is wrong. Therefore, with all the frontality, I say: you have confidence that everything will go well, but we will not forgive if this process is not well done. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u354	They're dating again!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u355	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u356	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u357	Mr President, it is to make an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u358	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u359	Thank you, Mr. President. I only have one minute, but I'll make good use of it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u360	It is in your right, Your Honor. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u361	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I cannot but say that this postponement only surprises those who may have been distracted, because it was more than overrun, it has been misdirected, and I cannot help but disagree with Mrs Susana Amador when she says, and I quote her, that this was "a planned reform". But in a reform which, unfortunately, had a more tragic and regrettable episode as a kick-off, which was the death of the Ukrainian citizen Ihor Homeniuk in the hands of a public entity, in fact, none of this could be thought of. This restructuring, which the NAP defends, must take place in order to ensure that the know-how of this entity is not lost, which is absolutely fundamental, in particular in combating trafficking in human beings. But it has to be done in a participatory way, which is what didn't happen. Mr Minister, workers have already been mentioned here, in particular the 1700 who still do not know what is going to happen to them, and it is essential, in our view, that the institutions and the representatives of the workers themselves be heard, something that has not happened to their predecessor. That is why, Mr Minister, we are asking for this hearing to be heard in fact. But because the SEF also has an important role to play in combating trafficking in human beings and because we are dissociating ourselves from the position of the Arrival, for those who are Portuguese of good and also refugees of the first and the second, we must not fail to highlight the merit of the creation of platforms such as Portugal for Ukraine or SEF for Ukraine, which constitute faster and more effective entry doors for refugees, bearing in mind that Syrian and Afghan children can and should also be welcomed by our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u362	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u363	I really am concluding, Mr President. Therefore, equal measures are needed for equal persons, without any discrimination.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u364	Mr José Luís Carneiro, who has two minutes to do so, spoke for the closing of the debate. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u365	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Let me first leave a note on the will I have here to ensure that everyone cooperates and contributes so that this process is calm, serene and inspires the confidence of the actors. Secondly, I would like to remind this Parliament that in 1955 we had 25 000 Portuguese in France, and in 1975 we already had 750 000. Many were irregularly and without documents, which did not remove their dignity or the right to a dignified life, which would contribute to the life of that country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I call on Parliament also to take account of the European Union Regulation of 4 December 2019, which establishes a transformation of the European Union's own vision as regards the need to strengthen at the police level borders and to ensure greater efficiency and efficiency in the integrated management of the European Union's external borders, while at the same time taking a view to transform the conditions for the reception and integration of migrants. That is the way we are going and for which everyone must compete, because it is precisely because we are making a diagnosis of some shortcomings in the internal security system that this reform is so important to safeguard humanitarian values and, at the same time, to strengthen the security and border management conditions of our country and we are fully committed to international commitments. I end with a word of understanding and dialogue, which I would like to reiterate here: we want this dialogue not only to be with the parliamentary groups but also to be with the unions, with the representative forces of the workers, the officials of the Foreign and Border Service. As has been said here, there is a wealth of knowledge which, of course, must now be valued and integrated into a new institutional architecture, in order to ensure that this transition takes place as we all wish, safely, calmly and with confidence in the state of democratic law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u366	This concludes this debate. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to draw your attention to two communications which Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha will make to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u367	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I am going to announce that you have entered the Bureau, and it has been admitted, the Draft of Deliberation No 2 / XV / 1. a ( PAR). It is also my duty to realise that the Members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Members Miguel Cabrita, of the Socialist Party, and Inês Barroso of the Social Democratic Party, attended the work by videoconferencing, because they were in confinement.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-27.u368	Finally, on the agenda of the plenary meeting for tomorrow, 28 April, it remains to be reported that the session will begin at 3 p.m., with the start of discussion, in general, of the Bill No 4 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2022. I congratulate the Government and thank the Members and the Members for their presence. Ladies and gentlemen. The session is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 14 minutes.]]
