ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21.u1	Mr President of the Republic, Your Excellency, Mr Prime Minister, Mr and Mr. Members, I declare open this solemn session of Good Friday to Mr. President of the Republic of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelenskyy. [[It was 16 hours and 59 minutes.]] At all times the connection will be established — it is not yet 17 hours — so that you can give the floor to President Zelenskyy in order to offer his greeting to the Portuguese Parliament, which we very much look forward to. We'll wait one minute so we can start the Session at the scheduled time. [[Pause.]] Mr President of the Republic of Ukraine, President Zelenskyy, is a pleasure and an honour for the Portuguese Parliament to receive it - welcome you in this Solemn Session. I shall immediately give the floor to you, Mr Zelenskyy. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic. Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Portuguese People : I am grateful for the opportunity to appeal to you at this time. It is indeed a very complicated time. Yesterday, in the city of Borodyanka, not far from our capital, two more burials were found by Russian occupants. One contained the bodies of two 35-year-old men and a 15-year-old girl, another had six bodies. They were all killed when the Russian troops occupied Borodyanka and the bodies were buried in the middle of the city, in the middle of housing. The graves we have now found are in several spaces that we have managed to free ourselves from the Russian occupants. Kyiv and the world already know the city of Butcha — which is 20 minutes from the city of Borodyanka — because we all remember the photographs of the dead lying, scattered in the middle of the street. The Russians didn't even try to set up the bodies so that the citizens living there could bury them as they should be. You have seen the photographs, but they do not portray everything that these citizens lived at that time. The occupants killed people just to have fun and also raided their homes. People were killed inside the sources, tortured and raped in the bunkers where they hid. They killed those people, but they also whaled cars in which there were children. So, only in the Kyiv region today—we haven't been able to discover everyone! — 1126 Ukrainians killed, of which 40 are children. In the Kyiv regions, Chernihiv and in other regions of Ukraine where Russian occupants were able to enter, they did a hell like what they did in Borodyanka and Butcha. I give just one example: in the city of Yahidne, Chernihiv region, they bombed a school and 10 people were killed. People were hidden there for weeks, and the youngest child who was there hid was 3 months old — imagine, a 3-month-old! — and the older person was 93 years old. In the basement there were more than 30 people who never had the chance to go to the bathroom or leave. They were forced to sing the hymn of Russia to humiliate them! That's the fun of Russian occupants, that's what's happening in Ukraine in 2022! We are fighting with Ukrainian troops not only for our independence, but also for our survival and so that Ukrainians are not killed, tortured, raped or captured by Russia. The Russian occupants have already removed from the occupied territories more than 500 000 Ukrainians, which is equivalent, imagine, twice the population of the city of Porto! These people were deported. Russia is doing what totalitarian regimes were doing: Ukrainians deported are not entitled to establish links with families and are being sent to the most distant regions of Russia. The Russians made special fields for these people to be divided. Some of them are dead, girls are raped! Imagine a girl who was trying to save herself from a concentration camp in Russia and who, just because she wasn't nice to the Russian soldiers, was raped. If she had been nice, she probably wouldn't have been raped and killed! In 57 days of war, we liberated about 1,000 places from Ukraine that had been occupied by the Russians. However, Russian troops continue to try to occupy and bomb our cities. They destroy housing, civil infrastructure and all the infrastructure that cities have to survive, including the food industry, schools, universities — until the churches are destroyed. The Ukrainians were forced to leave these cities. Imagine the entire population of Portugal having to leave the country! Our citizens are not refugees, they were forced to leave the cities temporarily, and we wait — we even have that prospect! — that they can return shortly, safely, to our Ukraine. We hope that this will happen soon, however, we cannot guarantee when that will happen. You know what is happening, right now, in the city of Mariupol, a city that is as big as Lisbon, that is close to the sea and that is totally destroyed. In Mariupol there is not a single house that is whole. The city was completely burned down. For more than a month, the Russians surrounded this city and made it hell. Many people have been without water, without housing conditions, without food and constantly being bombarded by Russian troops, who have, on purpose, used air resources. They knew they were there civilians and there was no military force there. Many people were homeless and even without pictures, because it was all set on fire. During the Russian bombings in this city of Ukraine, we thought more than 10,000 people were killed. However, we are not sure of the number, because the Russians made mobile crematoriums to destroy the bodies so that we could never have proof more than they are doing. Do you remember Butcha? Now they're trying to hide their war crimes so we don't have proof of what they did. My Ladies and Gentlemen, People English : When we ask for support for the world, we ask for simple things, that is, we ask for weapons so that we can defend ourselves strongly and free our cities from the Russian occupation. So that they can compare, this evil that is being done to Ukraine is equal to what was done by World War II. We ask for heavy weapons, such as tanks or anti-ship weapons, and all they can give us to help us. I call on your country to help us with the acceleration and strengthening of sanctions to Russia and also with military support, with weapons. We need your position to be that European companies still working in Russia will leave and not support it. Why did Russia start this war? Why did you occupy Ukraine? This is just the first step to be able to control Eastern Europe, to destroy democracy in Ukraine. But Ukraine had a strong boost to democracy in 2004 and 2014 when we had two revolutions that were able to stop the spread of the dictatorship in Ukraine. Therefore, we hope to be able to stop this dictatorship not only in Ukraine, but also in all the peoples of our region who want to choose their future without being oppressed, without being forced. Your people, who from here to nothing will celebrate the anniversary of the Revolution of the Claws, who also freed you from the dictatorship, know perfectly well what we are feeling. You certainly know what other peoples are feeling, especially the peoples of our region, who want to have freedom. You know what brings death and dictatorship to Ukraine, and after Ukraine, Russia will try to do this in Moldova, Georgia, the Baltic countries and other countries. However, it is possible to stop Russia. We can stop the Russian dictatorship now in Ukraine. I thank your Government and all the Portuguese for all the support they have given us, for support through sanctions against Russia, which is very important, when the European Union is preparing the sixth package of sanctions. I hope that you will also defend the European embargo on imports of oil from Russia and join other countries of the European Union in order for the Russian banking system to be blocked. There can't be a single Russian bank operating in Europe, so they don't hide behind other flags. I thank you for all the support you have given to the Ukrainians, for all humanitarian aid. I know that our people understand each other, that they know each other very well. Thank you for defending Ukraine's independence, security and sovereignty and for conveying this message to all countries, particularly Portuguese speaking countries, as in Africa, regarding the war Russia is developing against Ukraine. I ask you: fight against the influence of Russian propaganda in those countries that are close to you. I believe that the Portuguese people and Portuguese politicians support our country's entry into the European Union so that we can be free to support the free. This is because the civilized peoples must support the other civilized peoples. I believe that you will support our candidacy as a member of the European Union, so that this procedure will be decorated as soon as possible. We hope that our candidate status will soon be examined and, when this matter is reviewed, I ask you again to support us in this direction. You are on the westmost side of Europe and we are on the eastmost side, however, our visions are the same and we know what rules must exist throughout Europe. We know how rules, rights and values must be equal, without any dictatorship, so that anyone can have his time for happiness and hunger. Thank you, Portugal! Glory to Ukraine! [[standing applause from the PS, PSD, CH, IL, BE, PAN, L, the members present at the Bureau and the guests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-04-21.u3	Mr. President of the Portuguese Republic, Mr. President of the Republic of Ukraine, Mr. Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, Ambassador of Ukraine in Portugal, Illustres Invited, My Ladies and gentlemen : Portugal has condemned, from the very first moment, with firm determination, the military aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine. Less than three hours after its start, on the night of 23-24 February, the Portuguese Government publicly rejected it. On 24th, all the political bodies of sovereignty — the President of the Republic, the Assembly of the Republic and the Government — unanimously condemned the aggressor and expressed solidarity and support for the aggressor. They did so and have done it repeatedly, without any hesitation or ambiguity. For Portugal, the aggressor is the Russian Federation and the aggressor is Ukraine. The act of aggression is an illegal, unprovoked and unjustified war, which calls into question Ukraine's independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity, flagrantly violating international law. The attacker has the right to defend himself and must be supported in this legitimate defense. Russia's war on Ukraine calls into question the European security architecture, constitutes the most serious security situation since the end of World War II and poses a threat to all the countries of Europe and the North Atlantic. These countries have the right to strengthen their own capacity for deterrence and defence and have the moral and political duty to help Ukraine. Defending itself, Ukraine defends us all those who defend the values of freedom and democracy and who want an international order based on rules and peace based on the Charter of the United Nations, in which disputes and conflicts are dealt with and resolved by diplomatic and judicial means, and not by blackmail and aggression. Portugal did not limit itself to the condemnation of the aggressor and to solidarity with the aggressor. It made the acts correspond to the words. On 24 February the Supreme Council of National Defence approved, on a proposal from the Government and agreement of the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces, the necessary measures to strengthen our military participation in European and Atlantic defence. Our ambassadors in the European Union and NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ) immediately transmitted the national position of commitment to Russia's sanctions measures and protection of Ukraine. at the same time, the Prime Minister stated that Portugal would welcome all Ukrainian citizens in need of humanitarian protection, without any restriction. Subsequently, the Council of Ministers would implement an exceptional mechanism for the immediate regularization of the situation of any person from Ukraine, in order to ensure ready access to civil, social and health protection and to facilitate employment and integration. We immediately supported the United Nations condemnation of Russian aggression and were in the first group of countries asking the International Criminal Court to investigate the war crimes committed. We have cooperated in the international isolation of the Putin regime and have advocated, and we continue to advocate, harsh sanctions against those responsible for aggression and economic sectors, including those in banking and energy, which finance aggression. We have sent, and will continue to bilaterally send military, humanitarian and material support to Ukraine and actively participate in the European Union's efforts, mobilizing the European Peace Support Mechanism to provide Ukraine with the means of defence. We have strengthened our participation in strengthening European defence, in particular in the Atlantic Alliance. In the Portuguese response to the Russian aggression against Ukraine, it certainly weighed the narrow relationship between the two countries. The strongest bond is made up of people, the Ukrainian community established in Portugal, in the order of tens of thousands of well integrated people, who greatly contribute to our economy and whose children are some of the best students in Portuguese schools, and by the Luso-Ukraine families who have, however, formed and resided in one or another country. But if the good bilateral relationship, people the people and state the state, partly explains the readiness and clarity of the Portuguese reaction to the aggression that Ukraine is a victim, it does not explain everything, nor the most important. Portugal is a middle country on a European scale, small on a global scale, and it is not a demographic, economic or military power, but it is a nation with history, with a geopolitical position that has long been consolidated and with an external policy that does not vary with the government of the moment, because it expresses lasting national interests. The key to our foreign policy is respect for international law, binding on the Charter of the United Nations, valuing peace and security and loving freedom. That is why we are, without hesitation or ambiguity, for Ukraine, in whose territory today the struggle for freedom, independence and peace in Europe is being waged. Mr Volodymyr Zelenskyy, it is an honor for the Portuguese Parliament to receive it solemnly and listen to your words. The participation of the President and the Prime Minister of Portugal in this Solene Session shows well the national unit around support for Ukraine, a support which brings together the sovereign bodies and which is shared by political parties of the Government and the opposition. Indignant with the atrocities that are being committed and that you have just reported, exemplifying them, we mourn the dead, civilians and military, who have succumbed to the barbaria and horror of the war initiated by the Putin regime. We deplore the systematic and intentional destruction of cities, infrastructures, housing. We welcome and admire the heroic effort of the Ukrainian army and society in defending their homeland, including in Donbass, and we express our deepest condolences for so many innocent lives already lost. You know, Mr President of Ukraine, that as a Member State of the European Union and NATO, Portugal is always struggling for the preservation of unity, essential for the effectiveness of our decisions, and that it never hinders, before, the ongoing decision-making processes which aim to increasingly support its country. We welcome the European aspirations of Ukraine and have not only defended the strengthening of cooperation under the existing association agreement, but also the ready and careful examination by the European institutions of Ukraine's application for candidacy. Allow me, however, President Zelenskyy, to individualize the dimension of humanitarian solidarity and support, which lies more deeply in the humanist tradition of the Portuguese people. By the time I speak, more than 31 000 Ukrainians seeking humanitarian protection have been welcomed in Portugal and 2500 of your children attend our schools. This reception mobilizes all Portuguese: the government, central administration, autonomous regions, municipalities, non-governmental organizations, various religious confessions, schools, companies, trade unions and, above all, ordinary people. The Portuguese and Portuguese are engaged in this vast chain of solidarity and the treatment they devote to Ukrainians in need of help is that characteristic of our way of being: they treat us as equal, as brothers of the same humanity. A little throughout the country, thousands and thousands of volunteers have come to provide transport, housing, employment and integration, in close collaboration with the Embassy of Ukraine in Portugal, with the representative associations of the Ukrainian community and with its compatriots already established here. The Ambassador and various representatives of the community give us, in fact, the pleasure of attending this Session and all wish to greet. Mr President of the Republic of Ukraine, we have listened very carefully and openly to your words and in particular to your appeals. In the Portuguese constitutional order, it is up to the Government to conduct foreign policy, and it is sufficient to note the level of representation of the Government in this session, led by the Prime Minister, to understand that the proposals and requests of you, Mr President of Ukraine, will be well examined. In your supervisory function, the ladies and gentlemen. Members will also closely follow the decisions of the Government. But I can assure you from now on, President Zelenskyy, who has Portugal : he has our intransigent defence of the laws governing international relations and the right to independence and national sovereignty ; he has our commitment, in particular within the framework of the European Union and NATO, to defend freedom in all the territories of Europe, to punish increasingly the aggressor and to support the aggression, in the war of Russia against Ukraine ; he has the effective solidarity and action of the people and Portuguese authorities, in particular in the humanitarian field and in the reception and integration of migrant and refugee families ; and he has our full support for his efforts, President Zelenskyy, to find the ways of peace based on the refusal of aggression and the negotiated political solution for disputes. As you know, President Zelenskyy is rightly regarded as one of the most peaceful countries in the world. It is our humanist way of designing relations between peoples and nations. We appreciate the travel, trade, communication, cooperation and discoveries that we are making of one another's cultures. We are very proud to have, since 2019, in a Lisbon square, the bust of your national poet Taras Shevchenko. We warmly recall the meeting in the years of the Great War in northern Portugal between Sonia Delaunay — born Sarah Stern, in Gradizhsk, Ukraine — then on the run from war, and our painter Amadeo de Souza-Cardoso, the meeting of two major figures of the modernist revolution in European art. But we're not naive. To return to the peace that allows and encourages the development of cultural ties, we need to gain peace. To gain peace, we need to cope with aggression and force the attacker to stop aggression, involving himself in a serious negotiation process, leading to peace. at this point we are. Therefore, on behalf of the Portuguese Parliament and in the concordant presence of the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister of Portugal, I would like to address you, Mr President of Ukraine, to tell you that the struggle of your country for freedom is the struggle of Europe for freedom. To this struggle for freedom, democratic Portugal has never been missing, not missing and will not be missing. [[standing applause from the PS, PSD, CH, IL, BE, PAN, L, the members present at the Bureau and the guests.]] The national anthems of Ukraine and Portugal will now be filled. [[At the moment, the Republican National Guard Band, formed in the Lost Steps, executed the national anthem of the Republic of Ukraine.]] [[standing applause from the PS, PSD, CH, IL, BE, PAN, L, the members present at the Bureau and the guests.]] [[Then the Republican National Guard Band executed the national anthem of the Portuguese Republic.]] [[standing applause from the PS, the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE, the PAN, the L, the members present at the Bureau, the members of the Government and the guests.]] I am very grateful on behalf of the whole Parliament for the presence of Mr President of the Republic, as well as that of Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government. Recalling that we have an ordinary session next, I think we can start at 6 p.m., I declare this Solene Session closed. Even now and thank you all very much. [[It was 17 hours and 35 minutes.]] Members' presences and shortcomings at the plenary meeting. THE REDATION DIVISION.
