ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We have quorum and all parliamentary groups are present, so that we can start our plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] We shall begin with a number of essential votes on an opinion of 14. the Commission, to which we shall proceed immediately, and therefore the ladies and gentlemen. Members should occupy their seats. In the meantime, I ask the ladies. Officers of the authority who do the favor of opening the galleries to the public. We shall then examine the opinion delivered by the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, of which the Secretary of Bureau Maria da Luz Rosinha will inform us. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u2	Mr President, very late for everyone. I shall then announce the suspension, waiver, recruitment and resumption of mandates of Members in the opinion. Rui Rio, elected by the electoral circle of Porto, renounces the mandate, assuming the mandate of António Cunha, of the same electoral circle, with effect from September 14, 2022, including.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u3	We shall proceed to the vote on this part of the opinion. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] I would like to mention, on this occasion, how much the Assembly of the Republic owes to Mr Rui Rio, who has a political career as a Member of this House, as President of the City Council of Porto, as leader of the PSD - and, in this quality, leader of the major party of the opposition - and on this occasion, in which he renounces his mandate, I would like to say, on my behalf, that on behalf of all, a lot of thanks for the service he has provided to the country. [[P.S., standing members, PS, standing members, IL and members present at the Bureau.]] Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha, please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u4	Paulo Mota Pinto, elected by the electoral circle of Leiria, suspends his mandate, being replaced by João Barreiras Duarte, with effect from 9 September 2022, including for a period of five months, i.e. until 9 February 2023.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u5	Let's vote this part of the opinion. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u6	Marta Temido, elected by the electoral circle of Coimbra, resumes the term, ending Rosa Isabel Cruz, with effect from September 10, 2022, including.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u7	Let's vote this part of the opinion. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Madam Secretary, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u8	António Sales, elected by the electoral circle of Leiria, resumes the term, ending Cláudia Avelar Santos, with effect from September 10, 2022, including.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u9	Let's vote this part of the opinion. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u10	Maria de Fátima Fonseca, elected by the electoral circle of Lisbon, resumes the term, ending Alexandra Tavares de Moura, with effect from September 10, 2022, including.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u11	Let's vote this part of the opinion. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] You may continue, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u12	Mr President, I shall take account of the other information contained in the opinion: « Having examined the relevant documents available to the Commission, it was found that the unelected candidate indicated João Carlos Barreiras Duarte is really the next candidate to take up the mandate, in place, as presented in the list of votes in Leiria, and that the unelected candidate indicated António Duarte Conde Almeida da Cunha is really the next candidate to take up the mandate, on a final basis, as presented in the list of votes in the electoral circle of Porto. Deputies Marta Alexandra Fartura Braga Feared of Almeida Simões, according to list presented the suffrage in the electoral circle of Coimbra, António Lacerda Sales, according to list presented the suffrage in the electoral circle of Leiria, and Maria de Fátima de Jesus Fonseca, according to list presented the suffrage in the electoral circle of Lisbon. The applicable laws and regulations were observed. Do not keep on seeking. ” in this regard, the Commission has decided to give the opinion that these amendments to the mandates of Members comply with the legal requirements which have already been voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u13	Thank you very much, Secretary. I greet the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen who take up their mandates and thank you to the honourable Members. Members who, in the meantime, have fulfilled their mandates the services provided. We shall now proceed to the reading of the dossier, which is, in fact, numerous, as it is understood, since this is the first plenary session after the parliamentary holidays, for which I address the Secretary of the Bureau Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, several legislative initiatives. First of all, I refer to Lein's proposals 31 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 32 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), which falls to 6. the Commission, and 33 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with the 6th meeting. a, 10. a and 11. the Commission. Law No. 267 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 268 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 269 / XV / 1. a ( CH) and 270 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which fall to 5. the Commission, 271 / XV / 1. a ( IL ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission, 272 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 10. the Commission, 273 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission, 275 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 276 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 13. the Commission, in connection with 9. the Commission, 277 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 13. the Commission, in connection with 2. the Commission, 278 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which drops to 8. the Commission, and 279 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 10. the Commission. Parliamentary opinions Nos 4 / XV / 1 were also included in the Bureau. a ( PSD ) and 5 / XV / 1. a ( CH). Resolution Nos 209 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 210 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) and 212 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which fall to 11. the Commission, 213 and 214 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), down to 9. the Commission, 215 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 216 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 217 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission, 218 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 10. the Commission, and 219 and 220 / XV / 1. a ( PAR).
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u15	Thank you very much, Secretary. We will then begin the first point in our agenda, which consists of political declarations.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u16	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u17	Mr. André Ventura, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u18	Mr President, first of all I welcome you, you and the Bureau, and also all colleagues in Parliament. I just wanted to ask why Bill No. 263 / XV / 1. a (CH), whose discussion was scheduled today, at the Conference of Leaders, on 7 October, did not go down to committee.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u19	Mr. Deputies, the reason is that I have not yet admitted it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u20	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u21	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u22	Mr President, I just wanted to realize that from the point of view of the Rules of Procedure, allowing to be scheduled a project that has not yet been accepted is somewhat rare, at least in this Parliament. Secondly, the project goes to the Conference of Leaders, be scheduled and Mr. President now said he hasn't admitted it yet... I think we all have to understand what we're doing here, right? I mean, otherwise, any day we're discussing what doesn't exist! The truth is that he went to the Conference of Leaders, the bench of the Arrival has scheduled it, and at the Conference of Leaders it has been recorded, but now Mr President says he has not admitted it. This, from the point of view of the Rules of Procedure, constitutes another significant irregularity to the functioning of the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u23	We then enter the first item on the agenda. For a political declaration on behalf of the Left Block, Mrs Joana Mortagua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Three days ago, the lists of placements and placed in the first phase of higher education came out. The Government retired with the second largest number of alwayss placed in Portuguese universities: on 11 September, 50 000 students entered higher education. But the truth is that the rapid reality has plagued the contentment of the government, which, in fact, has been shown more and more frequently in an absolute majority for which to fail the country is a privilege of self-sufficiency. The government may ignore it, but most workers, and certainly most students, know well the harsh reality it will have to face, because'set up' is only the beginning of a day when entering higher education is the easiest part ever. And I don't mean, with this journey, the academic challenges, the difficult exams, the nights turned in the books. I am referring to the reasons that lead to more than 10 % of higher education students dropping out of undergraduate school in the first year, which means that 1 in every 10 students, that is, 5000 out of the 50 000 now placed, will leave higher education. The reality is that higher education students are one of the population groups that most resorted to social institutions during the pandemic. The reality is that the weight of the university student in the family budget is much higher than the European average and the weight of the stock exchange policy is much lower than that average. The reality is that everything got worse. But we're back to the 50,000 students now placed. According to statistics, 21 000 of these students are displaced from their area of residence and are unable to overcome the first obstacle to entry into college, which is to obtain accommodation in the place where they were placed. At the beginning of this school year, there was less than 80 % offer of accommodation in the rental market and house, room and rental prices were 10 % higher. The decrease in the number of houses available was not only in Lisbon or Porto, it is cross-sectional throughout the country. And when we ask what happened to the rooms that were on the lease market, both the academic Federation of Lisbon and the landlords are unanimous in the answer: "They went to the digital nomads or to the local accommodation. Do not keep on seeking. ” So here, here, I want to talk about the positions of the Lisbon Association of Owners and what they mean in a fully liberalized housing market, but not without making it clear that the absurdity of the owners does not preclude the government's responsibilities in the lack of support for university students and the housing crisis that had already been felt in recent years. Therefore, when the Lisbon Owners' Association announces the concerted decision not to place their homes on the lease market, we are obliged to ask: "Why? And the only answer that matters is: « Why can» —...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u25	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u26	... because the government has left students at the mercy of the inflationed and speculative lease market; because it has seen this problem worsening in recent years and little or nothing has done; because it has not created public service; because in one thing liberals are right, the market is so, it recognizes no rights or helps anyone. That is the role of the State, and that is why the State must be strong. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mrs. Members and Members of Parliament, the retaliation of the owners on students and families who need to rent a house in urban centres is unfair and is the expression of a privilege, but it is not new. I remember ads in recent years to rent containers from 12 m2 to 600 € in Marvila. I remember the various private homes that mulge and grow as mushrooms in Lisbon, which is an example of the new Nido Living in the Small Field, which promises from rooms with 12 m2 to 625 € per month to deluxe studios plus 820 € per month, with access to kitchenette and private bathroom. on the contrary—and this is the truth—of what the owners say, in housing, as at work or in wages, is neither, nor has it ever been, « eye for eye and tooth for tooth». It is that this method of justice, archaic, barbaric, presupposes equality, that, in the end, everyone gets blind and everyone gets dizzy, but that is not what this is about here. Here, while some hang their teeth to protect the profits of their business, others lose their right to education. And the question being asked is only one: what will the government do to protect students from higher education? Other countries have implemented free transport, increased scholarships, created support plans. The Government has not submitted a single measure aimed at higher education students. Are the bags and supplements eaten by inflation? The government doesn't do anything. Is the price of accommodation prohibitive? The government doesn't do anything. On the other hand, he gave up the announcements that, in times past, they promised something left-handed for higher education, such as ending the tips. The only certainty students have today is that the government has forgotten them. The only certainty we have today is that the house, the bread, the meat, the fish, the transportation and all the bills to be paid will ultimately be charged to the country, because a country that cannot keep its students in higher education is a country that is indebted, it is a country that has a debt to a generation. It was to call on the Government for its responsibilities that, on behalf of the country and on behalf of the students, the Left Block called the Minister of Higher Education, Elvira Fortunato, to give us these answers. After all, what measures will the government take to protect students from higher education? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u27	The honourable Member has four requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u28	Two to two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u29	The first request for clarification belongs to Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, of the Liberal Initiative, to whom I give the floor for this purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I have heard you talk about quite interesting numbers, when you said that the offer of student housing has decreased by 80 % and prices have risen by only 10 %. I would like to know the source of these data, because they are quite interesting, if the offer has fallen 80 %, but the price has risen only 10 %. It was interesting to realize exactly what data from the INE (National Institute of Statistics) is that it referred to.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u32	Study!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u33	Then he said another rather interesting thing, when he said that the problem exists throughout the country and it is the responsibility of the digital nomads and the local accommodation. Now, looking at the data, we realize that the local accommodation and digital nomads are strongly concentrated in some of the parishes of Lisbon and in one or two parishes of Porto. Therefore, if the problem is throughout the country, these are certainly not both responsible.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u34	What about Aveiro? What about Braga?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u35	But I'm going further. I went to Left.net to look for the positions of the Left Block on housing over the years and here's what I found: they rose against the construction, which they call "real estate speculation", said that there was an abuse of construction of Uniplaces and Smartstudios, that is, they don't want privates to build university residences, and they came to the point of saying something economically strange, that was—note! —'more housing will not lower prices'. Economically, this is a fantastic thing! ... Therefore, they are against the construction of dwellings in general and are against the construction of university residences if done by privates. We have come to the rental market and there are several articles to say that they are in favour of freezing incomes, which are against short-term contracts, which are against the eviction of tenants who do not pay... i.e., you are against the existence of a lease market, basically! But that is why they are even honest, because there is an article on the Left.net that says, so clearly what your positions would lead to in the Country: "We want a society without masters. » This is the title of the left.net article. Well, there you go! It is that a society without lords is a society without houses to rent.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u36	They take the houses with them! Go away and take the houses!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u37	The honourable Member has come to complain about the gentlemen who do not want to rent, when that is exactly what you have been asking for for a long time.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u38	The other day I saw a landlord take three houses with him!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u39	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u40	I will now conclude, Mr President. It is therefore ironic that someone who defends measures that destroy the lease market now complain that there is no rental market. My question is very simple: do you now understand the need for more construction and to facilitate the construction of university residences by private investors and realize the need for a good lease market? [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u41	To make a request for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome Mrs. Joana Mortágua on the subject she has brought us. First of all, it must be said that the problem with student housing is precisely what happens when the State steals to carry out its essential and essential functions, including ensuring access to education, and leaves them to the market.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u43	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u44	Thus, the result we have in mind is that there are not even houses in the rental-free market for displaced students. This does not count on the average percentage of coverage of public offer residences for the total of students displaced in our country, which does not reach 15 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u45	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u46	Today we have the confirmation that, a few years ago — I remember it perfectly — the students were saying whether they were letting themselves down and not building homes to give space to the student housing business, which, although some people want to deny, is absolutely obvious.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u47	There you are, all right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u48	On the national student housing plan, with which the Government has insisted, despite the little 'acquisition',... [[Protests by PS MP Miguel Matos.]] ...it's important to realize that residences are these. And this was a question that I would also like to ask Mrs. Joana Mortágua, in order to know whether these residences should have rooms at the price of social action at school, instead of what we have been attending, which is the construction, by privates, of residences that then have a small part of rooms at the price of social action at school,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u49	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u50	... being the others not at 450 €, but at 350 €, which continues to be prohibitive for most families, as we know.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u51	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u52	I would also like to know, with regard to the issue of housing supplement, whether it should be urgently updated to address the decrease in the purchasing power of families and the actual value of income, allowing students, regardless of their economic condition, to be able to register and effectively enter the courses they want. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u53	In reply, Mrs. Joana Mortágua of BE has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u54	Mr President, I would like to thank you for the questions that have been put to me. Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, since he wanted to caricature the position of the Left Block on this matter, has just made a caricature of himself, because the freedom of higher education students to choose where they want to study, to choose the universities they want to attend, that freedom, is at the door of the market. Students know that it is the market that prevents them from attending these universities, and that is why 10 % of students just quit college in the first year, being one of the first obstacles — perhaps the biggest — to get housing. So when you speak on the lease market in Portugal and you say that the Left Block wants to ruin, destroy the market... But what is the lease market that exists in Portugal, where a student can't rent a house, where a family can't rent a house, where a wage—not even a average wage, how much more the minimum wage—is it not enough to live in a city? Oh, my God! We know that you think that people have no right to live in cities. We know that.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u55	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u56	What we expect is that students also know that it is the market that excludes them from higher education.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u57	That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u58	This is a responsibility of the State, and that is why public investment is needed. The private residences of which you so much speak charge €625 for a room of 12 m2. Now, I would like to know how many students in higher education are that you know that you can pay €625 for the cheapest room model in a private university residence. But it is not surprising, because he defends the interests of the real estate market and not the interests of the students, otherwise he would have - at least once - refer to the difficulties they face, not only in housing, but throughout his life as students.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u59	You want more houses not built!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u60	In view of the fact that, in the election campaign and in the electoral programme, it proposes the indebtedness of students to pay the tips, it is natural that the solutions do not come from that side. Mrs Alma Rivera, in fact, we are having a serious problem right now, as the government determines the increase in vacancies — and we agree with that, it is a good step towards democratising access to higher education — but it does not create conditions for students to stay in higher education. And they are the universities themselves and the polytechnics themselves saying: "Don't increase our vacancies any more, which we can no longer endure! We cannot bear the costs of the universities themselves, which are underfinanced, nor can we see our students without conditions to attend universities. Do not keep on seeking. ” But, of course, in view of the prices that are practised, especially in Lisbon, but also in large urban centres, housing is one of the major problems. The truth is that all the government's promises for the construction of public university residences are delayed, many of them because they are dependent on private promoters who have been waiting for the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ) — this is what can always be expected from any, or any private, funding to solve what the State has the responsibility to solve — and the social action is not receiving the financial share of investment that should be being received to reach the students at this time. We are in a serious situation and, in agreement with the questions that we are asking, this is what we should ask ourselves: if, in a pre-inflation period, we had 10 % of the students to give up in the first year, how many will be at the end of this year? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u61	Mr Eduardo Alves, from the PS, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members of Parliament, Mrs Joana Mortágua, for these days thousands of new students enter higher education through the first phase of the access contest. These new students, they and their families, today find a much more democratic higher education, with the progressive reduction of the tip we made in the last two legislatures and the value of the tip frozen in the State Budget to 2022. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u63	These new students who enter now find a higher education increasingly promoting equal opportunities, with more money for social action and with more students covered. These new students entering today find an increasingly bureaucratic higher education, with more simplification of procedures, with the automatic allocation of scholarships, a higher education that is increasingly an engine of territorial cohesion, which is increasingly inclusive and diverse and that is increasingly valuing alternative pathways, such as that of the STECF (professional higher technical courses). These students who enter now also find a higher education, a state and a country that did not — and do not — have a magic wand to solve decades of disinvestment in public policies for housing, but clearly and unequivocally find a government that is committed and putting housing policies in government holographs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u64	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u65	And it is doing so, for example, through the National Youth Plan, which has still been published this week, with cross-sectional responses; it is doing so, for example, by strengthening the housing complement, within the framework of social action; it is doing so, for example, in the context of anti-inflation measures, with the limitation of the values in which income can be increased; it is doing so, above all, through the National Housing Plan in Higher Education, which has a clear and unequivocal source of funding, the Recovery and Resilience Plan, which is about to be contractualised – and therefore has passed several stages of the notice within the framework of the PRR — and which will guarantee 16 000 new beds for Portuguese students up to 2026. [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] We have achieved — and we have already achieved — that one of the two young Portuguese people up to 20 years of age is attending higher education, but we recognize, as a parliamentary group, that we are not yet at the point we want. So, Madam Member, I would like to ask you whether, with all these measures, with this strategy and with these results, we are or are not getting closer or closer to the higher education we want, that we are ambitious and that we imagine. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u66	For a request for clarification, Mr Alexandre Poço, from the PSD now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Joana Mortágua, if this debate was not being held live and if we were not all here, it might seem that we were in 2017 or 2018. After listening to Mr. Eduardo Alves' speech, it seemed to me that I had actually seen a repeat film. It was almost as if I came home and went to see the Hollywood Canal : I've seen that movie so many times that, indeed, it doesn't give me much joy. But let's go to the numbers, because the numbers count here. We then speak of the network of residences that the State has promised since 2018, with the so-called National Plan for Accommodation in Higher Education. How many beds existed at the time? There were 15 000 beds in the public residential network of higher education. How many beds are there today in the public residential network for higher education students? According to data from today's website www.pnaes.pt, there are 15 073. More, I quote Manuel Heitor, former Minister of Higher Education: « We aim to double the offer of accommodation for higher education students in the next decade, creating, in the period 2019 - 2022, about 12 000 new beds distributed throughout the national territory. » In 2018, when he launched the plan, there were 15 000 beds and in 2022, four years after the plan, there were 15 073 beds. But now they come to tell us the following: "It is not in these three years that we have achieved 12 000 beds, but it will be until 2026 that we will reach the target of 30 000 beds. Do not keep on seeking. ” Therefore, in this debate, we may have the ideological considerations that we want, but if there is any agent who is failing, it is the Government led by the Socialist Party, when, in view of what he promised in 2018, in 2022 he has to present the same number of beds. [[PSD applause.]] They can fill their mouths with plans, if they want to, but they don't respond to higher education students. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u68	In reply, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u69	Mr President, Mr. Eduardo Alves, « Placed but evicted » is the title of the news that has emerged these days and that applies to students who are now in higher education, not to those who are in the immediate vicinity of entering higher education – translating « imminence» into « until 2026 ». What I have to ask you is this: are the young people who, during the « imminence » in 2022, in 2023, in 2024, in 2025, in 2026, enter higher education? Where are these young people gonna live? The honourable Member has listed a number of measures which the Government has taken, none of them to combat inflation or the crisis now felt, and I was reminding myself of another list of measures, which Spain, Germany and France have taken to support their students in higher education: they have increased the scholarships to try to accompany inflation, they have established free long-term transport, so that students, when going home, have no more to pay for the train than they would pay if they were by car, as in Portugal, and have managed to provide support to university students. With regard to such measures, the Government did nothing, announced nothing and did not commit itself to the support that will come in the future in 2023. But there is a question that remains and that is inescapable: where will the displaced students who were placed this year live? And what measures will the government take to support these students? On the other hand, and only in relation to the CTESPs, I would also advise the honourable Member to see the rate of withdrawal of these courses. It's an interesting number.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u70	It's true! [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u71	Mr Alexandre Poço, we agree with one thing: the responsibility of the government, which has already offered too many delays and too many unaccompanied announcements on the offer of student accommodation. Still, being the responsibility of the government, it is necessary to be on the right side of the policies that support students. The PSD also used us to a repeated film, in which, for years at a time, it said that it was not only impossible as unnecessary to download propines, and that it was necessary to choose between that and increase the value of the bags. The Left Block always said it was necessary to put down propines. It is unfortunate that JS (Socialist Youth) and PS have abandoned the goal of putting an end to the tips.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u72	We've got our tips down!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u73	The Left Block always said it was possible and desirable to download tips, end the tips, and increase support for students. This is not only necessary as it is now urgent. That is why the challenge I make to you is that you accompany us, Mr Commissioner, because, as you well know, there are no "impossible missions" and it is necessary to "give everything" to the students of higher education. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u74	To give a political statement on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sara Velez has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Under the motto « Cohesion and Territory : a Country with Opportunities for All », we held on 11 September 12 and 13 September in the Leiria district the Parliamentary Days of the Socialist Party. In all the extent of this district, also as our country, to the seaside planted, we can find a part of that which is also our national whole: a district so plural and diverse, which goes from interior to sea and has one of its new brands in the Nazaré wave; a district of forest and rurality, but also of the cutting-edge industry, innovation, knowledge, new technologies, culture, tourism and wellness. In the three days that lasted these days, we were able to witness this very thing, going from north to south, from west to all its area, and we carried out an active listening work on the territory — using the concept that Prof. João Ferrão told us yesterday —, a fundamental tool for the promotion of adjusted and effective public policies in the management of the territory. We could visit the 16 councils of our district, each of them, and better know the wealth of our forest, deepen and discuss the means for its best management and discuss with firefighter associations the best way to protect. We did it in the municipalities of Figueiró dos Vinhos, Castanheira de Pera and Pedrogão Grande. We visited companies who, taking advantage of what they have best in their DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid), knew how to grasp the opportunities of the Mobilizing Agendas offered by the Recovery and Resilience Plan, developing new energy solutions based on hydrogen or finding innovative solutions in the mold industry, Leiria and the Great Navy. We have also been in contact with other endogenous productive sectors of our territory, such as laniphy, glass, ceramics and fruit crops. We did it in Castanheira de Pera, Caldas da Raina and Bombarral. We found companies that have been able to gain international prestige in innovation and investment, which allow them today to be unique in the sector of the transformation of Portuguese stone, in Porto de Mos, or create high value added components for the car industry, in Pombal. In Óbidos, we discussed entrepreneurship, digital innovation and creative industries in the technological park that hosts several companies that are dedicated to the production of software and hardware. We have also visited the Higher School of Tourism and Technology of the Sea, in Peniche, and Porto and Docapesca, in Nazareth, taking into account the importance of the sea in our region, as is the example of the fisheries sector. We also highlighted the wealth of our cultural heritage, which has at the Battle Monastery, classified as World Heritage by UNESCO ( United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization ), one of its top exhibitors and which will benefit from an investment of EUR 1, 8 million at the head of PRR. Also in the areas of social solidarity, health and vocational education, we visited different institutions in Alcobaça, Alvaiázere and Ansião. In all these territories we have found resilience, innovation, the desire to do more and better. In short: a territory and its peoples that give the best of themselves, every day, and that have enriched us much with their knowledge and their vision. They may ask: why have we asked to list, almost one by one, the visits we have made? Because, on a day dedicated to growth and cohesion, it is necessary to know closely the application of public policies that have allowed precisely that growth and cohesion, but it is also necessary to hear the main difficulties and challenges that we still have to overcome in order to solve problems that we have not yet been able to solve. And that's what we did. I started this speech by saying that we can find in Leiria district a little of everything that constitutes our country, and that is why the strategic challenges of the Government Programme are for Leiria and also for the country. In the discussion sessions we were able to discuss with different experts the topics that constitute the great challenges we have today — twin transitions and new professional profiles, demography and public policies supporting the middle and lower classes, and inequalities in the territories — whose overcoming will enable us to increase growth and greater cohesion. Digital and energy transitions are imperative in the context that the country and the world currently cross, affected by climate change and the effects that they feel on the price of energy, particularly in gas, but also on other fossil fuels. However, a greener and more sustained transition is only possible in a more digital society, which allows to reduce the carbon footprint of the means of production, which goes through the digitisation of companies and a greater investment in education and training of all, eliminating the gap that still exists in access and in the literature of digital and information technology. We also discuss public policies to support the middle class and how they relate to the demographic challenge we have identified in our Government Programme. Social benefits and birth, school and public health, housing, employment and adult training policies were also part of this reflection. We also discuss territorial inequalities and the importance of developing and reinventing public policies so that all territories can walk together, thus becoming more cohesive, but also holders of greater economic growth. As one of the results of this work of reflection and debate, we presented, already at the end of our days, the resumption of a legislative initiative, which was not possible to conclude in 2017, precisely on the creation of the public land bank, thus promoting an integrated instrument of management of land without known owners. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, quoting our parliamentary leader, « growth and cohesion are two sides of the same coin ». We cannot have cohesion, be it territorial, social or economic, and we cannot grow sustainably if we do not get everyone to walk in this path at the same pace, without anyone remaining behind. Economic growth is not achieved without betting on equality, and the fight against inequalities has always been a legacy of the governance of the Socialist Party. And it is because we know that our collective project will be as successful as it is the smallest distance that separates us, whether in income, education, access to health or access to justice. That is why we will continue this path, which we started in 2015 to invest in public policies that allow us to reach a country with greater growth and cohesion, a country with opportunities for all. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u76	The honourable Member has five requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u77	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u78	To make the first request for clarification, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I should like to begin by thanking the PS Parliamentary Group and Mrs Sara Velez for bringing this issue to debate, which, without a doubt, in the context of inflation, is of greatest importance to the country at any time. But speaking of cohesion and growth in our country means talking about the support that has not been granted and the reforms that are to be made, and in this sense I would like to leave three very specific questions to Mrs Sara Velez regarding the proposals that the NAP has already put forward and which aim to complement the measures announced by the Government. I begin with a theme that has already been discussed today, that of support for young people. A country that does not support its young people is a country that is doomed to lack sustainability in terms of social security, not sustainability in terms of employability, not sustainability in terms of demographics or social cohesion. The NAP presented an initiative to amend the Government's bill precisely so that the extraordinary support of the € 125 will also be extended to young people who have begun to attend higher education this year, in particular young people displaced from their area of residence. And the question is, of course, whether the PS Parliamentary Group is available to accompany us. On the other hand, we have the issue of updating pensions. The fact that, so far, there has been no clarification about what is going to happen in the future in relation to the updating of pensions and that a noise has been brought to the discussion on a pseudo-reform of social security does not seem positive to us nor to the debate, which must be serious and demarcated, on the context we are living in with regard to social security, or on the debate that needs to be done, on the support given to pensioners, in particular on the non-repayable from the update of inflation, and the NAP also proposes that these rules be clarified, so we want to know whether the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is available to accompany us. Finally, I am referring to another issue of the greatest importance. We have heard Ursula von der Leyen speak today in the package of EU support measures and the rate on extraordinary profits. It has already launched an initiative of the NAP in this same direction, since the European Union is heading precisely for the NAP to be alerted. We must tax the most profitable and the most polluting, particularly, as Ursula von der Leyen said, with a 33 % tax on the extraordinary profits of fossil fuels, so that we can have a'solidarity rate', as the so-called 140 billion euros on profits, for example, of electro-producers or oil. Is the PS available to follow us on this initiative? We understand that speaking in these matters and, on the other hand, we have support for public transport, as the NAP has been defending, would, yes, make it possible to alleviate the monthly turnover of families and to wager in territorial cohesion, with a measure that goes to meet the real concerns of families.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u80	To make a request for clarification, Mr Hugo Oliveira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u81	Mr President, Mrs Sara Velez, I am glad to have spoken in the Leiria district, but most of the things I have said are the truths of La Palice. They are very important matters about the potential of the district, but we only talk about territorial cohesion when in some places, in the north of the district, there's no telephone network... I think it's all said! What the citizens of Leiria need is social support, and the Socialist Party has marked a number of parliamentary days—let them stop! — to dissect the social emergency programme presented by the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u82	next time we invite Mr. Deputy!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u83	We know that the PSD leader has marked the political agenda and what this bothers you! [[PSD applause.]] The Socialist Party has stated that the program presented by the PSD is a small charity and that it is a small package. This thing of wanting to measure the packages presented and see which is the greatest is so ridiculous and meaningless, that we don't even want to give for this show. But to see where your ability and capacity for illusion goes, it is worth making a simple account: the PSD programme allocated a value of EUR 1.5 billion and the package presented by PS in practice is EUR 1.4 billion, if we withdraw EUR 1 billion for pensioners. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u84	And it's worth remembering that, at the end of the day, they're the ones who get lost. You know, Mrs. Member, little charity is to have a discount of 1 € on the bill of light! Open... The Portuguese know well that the social emergency program presented by the PSD, that is, a program that aimed at helping those who need it most, was fair and fair. The PSD presented a programme that clearly provided for the lowering of the IRS ( income tax for natural persons) of the 4. o, 5. it's 6. the steps and assign a monthly food voucher of 40 €, until December, to the 1st. o, 2. o is 3. the steps of the IRS and pensioners with pensions up to 1108 €, which provided a total of 120 €. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] In fact, this does not happen with the government package, which blindly aims, in the old socialist way, to wager in socialism for all. So I ask you, Madam Member: is the Socialist Party available to continue, in an achievement, to lie to the Portuguese? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u85	To make a request for clarification, Mr Rodrigo Saraiva of the IL now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mrs Sara Velez for her report on the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Days. From what he had to understand, they were looking and talking about many different areas. What I'd like to ask was whether, in the room or in the visits you said they did, they were able to have a meeting with reality and, in fact, they saw the real problems that the Portuguese feel in their day-to-day life.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u87	That's why we had an absolute majority!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u88	I will not ask you about the conclusions of the parliamentary rounds or the measures they have decided, because you had the opportunity to talk about them and you did not. We therefore proceed from the assumption that they do not really have any conclusions or new proposals and will insist on the mistake. They will insist on the error, for example, in the area of health, because reality shows chaos in emergencies, and in a system that does not give people freedom of choice. They're going to insist on this mistake. The Portuguese also feel, for example, in education—and we are seeing this now, at the beginning of the school year—the question of the lack of teachers. It is a system without freedom of choice, and you insist on the system, insist on the mistake. In social security, as it was quite clear and the Portuguese perceive increasingly better, they insist on hiding the unsustainability of the system, a system where there is no freedom of choice either. But you want to insist on the system and you want to insist on the mistake. We can talk, for example, about the tax system, where the Portuguese know that, between direct and indirect taxes, power, purchasing power, power of decision, power of opportunity is taken from them. That is what you have taken away from the system and the mistake they insist on. That's what they take people: freedom!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u89	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u90	Then we have the companies, which, in addition to the tax burden, lead to the rigging of bureaucracy. Therefore, you also insist on the mistake that suffocates business freedom. I can still talk about the territory. Obviously, I am not going to talk about the most recent fire in the Natural Park of the Star Serra, but since you were in Leiria, I wonder if you have seen the one who is a clear failure of your policies, since you were going to make the biggest reform since D. Dinis.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u91	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u92	Since you were in Leiria, I wonder if you've seen what's going on in the Pinhal de Leiria, which has been abandoned for five years. Solutions? Nothing! They're going to insist on the mistake.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u93	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u94	I can speak in the area of justice, the main feature of which is morbidity. Are you going to keep insisting? It is that morosity is also an enemy of people's freedom. Or I can talk about decentralization, where they have made a tough process, a complicated process. Now, by doing this, what are you doing? They're preventing decision-making from going near people. Once again, they insist on a system and on the mistake of not approaching people's freedom. I could talk about housing, security, either the state, people, or the labour issue, but I end with this question: why does the Socialist Party, within its inability—maybe that's why— insists on the mistake? [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u95	In order to make a request for clarification, Mr Ventura of the Arrival now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u96	Mr President, Mrs Sara Velez, I understand the comfort of wanting to answer all the questions at the same time, because this does not really answer any questions! [[Mr Pedro Pinto's laughs.]] But since it brought the theme of the PS Parliamentary Days — which is a bit bizarre to be discussed in a political statement, but so it chose the PS... — there is a question that it was important to realize.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u97	They've got nothing else to talk about! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u98	You went to Leiria district, and the honourable Member came to this forum saying that one of the priorities was the issue of the country's forestry and rural management. Mr Member, you were in a district where the fires were what they were — in Alvaiázere, in Ansion, in so many lands where you are probably seeing us now — and Mr. Prime Minister did not have a word for the topic of fires, a word for populations, a word for firefighters! Open... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u99	What were you doing, for a weekend, in Leiria? Oh, my God! It must have been walking, because they didn't do anything else that interests the country! [[Congrats from the CH.]] She then said that schools and teachers were a fundamental factor of social cohesion—and they are! — but I have also not heard Mr Prime Minister talk about this during parliamentary days.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u100	Nothing! Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u101	And, yes, we have the school year beginning with 60 000 teachers in need, we have the year to start and only in Lisbon are 300 establishments without teachers, but the Member can spend 6 minutes talking and the Prime Minister can spend two days without giving a word to the parents, without giving a word to the schools, without giving a word to the teachers.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u102	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u103	And, after they had not said anything for two days, especially nothing that interested the Portuguese, when they were entering one of the difficult heights, when the fires went out, but the lands there were marking their conditions—as happened in Manteigas, where the parents had to take their children to school, but there were no teachers—there was no word from Mr. Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u104	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u105	We ended up in the best way, with the parliamentary leader of his bench sitting next to him—and sometimes he confuses himself with the President of the Assembly of the Republic—to say: "We accept to discuss the tax on the extraordinary profits of companies! Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u106	Great!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u107	António Costa, a few minutes or an hour later, says you are studying, but you are not particularly excited about this idea. Mr Member, since they want to give a bad show to the country, they could at least have a minimum understanding, because the country outside cannot be dependent on beer, neither on its parliamentary leader, nor on the Prime Minister, nor on any PS leader. They decide and understand, because the country needs, more than ever, a government and unfortunately it does not seem to have it! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u108	For a request for clarification on behalf of the CFP, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Sara Velez, I would like to congratulate you on your description of the parliamentary days you have made. I want to start with the main issue, which is whether they had the opportunity to see the failure of the policies that the PS government has been implementing in those territories. In fact, Leiria may even be the example of many other territories because the policies of abandonment, the policies of contempt, the policies in which deresponsibility is an ongoing attitude of the government. Whether in the area of agriculture, whether in the area of forests or in the area of health, what we are witnessing is the policies that result in serious damage to those territories and their populations. As far as depopulation is concerned, you have seen with your own eyes the consequences of the depopulation of that territory, in particular the difficulties in fixing the population, resulting from the closure of public services. The PS government could have reversed the PSD policy of closing public services, could have opened the public services that have been closed, but it continues to turn its backs, not giving support to that population nor allowing them to have access to living conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u110	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u111	On the other hand, when it comes to fires, we see a policy of de-responsibility, in which, for the PS and for the Government — now the Government of an absolute majority — the problem is in small and medium-sized farmers, it is on small property. Then it turns out — see! — a draft law seeking to create the public land bank and what will be a land mobilization fund. They are land confiscation measures because, for the PS and for the government, the problem of fires is the small property and are its owners, who are responsible,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u112	No, no! He didn't read!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u113	... when the person responsible is the PS, because he does not take public measures to enhance the forest nor creates conditions for small owners to manage the forest!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u114	And we've always warned about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u115	With regard to health, Mrs. Members, they had the opportunity to see how necessary health professionals are and how necessary is the construction of the West hospital. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not promises we need, it is measures on the ground! We do not need reliable conversation, but measures that can solve and improve the living conditions of the population of those territories. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u116	In reply, Mrs Sara Velez has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u117	Mr President, we have had a very rich time in the debate and on the issues we have discussed and discussed several subjects, many of which are mentioned here by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. But I'm afraid some of you are. Members, having not been present, have failed the target slightly in relation to some of the issues we have discussed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]] Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, thank you very much for the questions you have raised. We have recently had the opportunity to present a set of measures to support people and families in the context of the consequences of this crisis that we are living in, and the government will also do so briefly with regard to businesses. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the fact that the comments and the questions that have been made are all in a certain sense, I would like to remind you that this government, supported by this bench, has achieved the best rate of growth — we are talking about growth and cohesion — which our country has already achieved in democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u118	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u119	It was this government that, without blind cuts in people's incomes, recovered the financial credibility of our country, as it has been recognized by two important financial rating agencies a short time ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u120	You're not answering! That, perhaps, was already written!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u121	It is written, Mr, because you are very predictable. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u122	What about the answers? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u123	Despite all the difficulties — which we recognize, we know that there are and never forget, on which we have worked, with very deep reflections, during our Days — this government has made the greatest budgetary reinforcements in health, culture, social action, in support of the most vulnerable. All these flags I mentioned here are flags and heritage of the Socialist Party's governance. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u124	What about the Pinhal of Leiria?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u125	That is also why this government, supported by this bench, despite all the difficulties, has achieved what is one of the best employment rates and ours will also be the largest country in the European Union this year. Finally, I would like to say to you that it was this bench which supports this government, which received an absolute majority in the last elections, a majority such as Mr Hugo Oliveira, which was also given by the Leiria district. [[P.S.'s applause.]] To conclude, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to say that what we did, during the three days of our Days, was to discuss and deepen our policies to continue to follow this path that we started in 2015 and that brought to the country the development we all know. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u126	You didn't give an answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u127	We shall now proceed to the political statement which he will give on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernando Negrão, which has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We well know that, in 2021, Portugal has been among the five most peaceful countries in the world, with the particularity of the violent and serious crime registered having declined consecutively since 2011. These are the data contained in the Annual Internal Security Report ( RASI ), which results from the contribution of all security forces and services, providing all statistical data to the Secretary-General of the Internal Security System ( SSI ), which, in turn, joins, analyzes and publishes them. These are the numbers that leave us more calm, but that should not let us rest. With regard to security and criminal phenomena, dynamic is always very strong, variable and unpredictable, always requiring careful attention to the movements of known criminal segments and predictive capacity for unknown criminal phenomena. The day we think that crime has fallen to the point that we no longer worry about it, the result is that we pay to double, later. [[PSD applause.]] I take advantage of leaving here a word of respect and very much appreciation to those to whom we should, some years ago, this low rate of crime, thanks to their work, courage and resilience, despite the lack of attention to their working conditions and their careers, the lack of effective and lack of modern leadership, which make their mission more effective and their motivation stronger. To all the cops, I leave our well-being! [[PSD applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on 11 September, at the beginning of the night, in a large and very frequent shopping centre at the gates of Lisbon, there was a shooting of which resulted a child wounded, very panicky and certainly a feeling of general insecurity, which is creating, in each one of them, the idea that no one is jealous for himself or for his own. This was the most recent episode of criminal phenomena that have been multiplying, as a rule, in public space, causing strong social alarm, the burden of violence involved, the use of weapons and, still, the serious consequences for the victims. It is also found that many of these occurrences involve young people in contexts of night fun or sporting events, all associated with organized groups, with the sole objective of crime practice. Group crime and juvenile crime recorded a significant increase in 2021 compared to the previous year— plus 7, 3 % in juvenile crime and 7, 7% in group crime—with worrying indications such as the fact that, in sex crime, several cases of sexual abuse of children and pornography of minors, whose authors were younger than 16 years of age have been identified. In the context of group crime, 832 individuals were arrested, also in 2021. The Attorney-General of the Republic ( PGR ) calls on school directors to report the cases, for there has been a substantial increase in entries in educational protective investigations relating to crimes committed by young people between the ages of 12 and 16. Loures, May 21, 2022 : man killed with iron; Amadora, July 26, 2022 : man killed at the knife in the morning; Odivelas, July 21, 2022 : man died after rowing in a garden; Seixal, May 21, 2022 : man shot in the public street; Lisbon, April 2, 2022 : man killed with at least five shots at the entrance of the building where he lived. These are some cases of violent murder that have occurred in recent months, all perpetrated in the public space. Associated with all this, we have increased cases of aggression to elements of the security forces, frequently reported, which translates into a feeling of growing impunity. In view of this summary picture, the Government had to react and indeed reacted. How? how it always reacts when faced with a serious problem: admitting that there have been several serious occurrences, it created the Commission of Integrated Analysis of Juvenile Crime and Violent Crime, in order to submit proposals to see juvenile crime and violent crime reduced. This Commission is composed of 14 members — we all know what committees are composed of more than half a dozen people and how they do not work! — and has a period of operation no less than one year. Since the June office this year, the question remains what will happen until June next year. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have low levels of crime and we also have complex criminal phenomena, with sophisticated levels of organization involving young people, with a view to the practice of serious crimes. If we want to maintain low levels of crime, it is urgent to give a full response to these criminal organizations and to detect what is happening with a range of young people who have lost, or never had, the notion of the difference between good and evil. It is time to speak clearly, we cannot continue to « cover the sun with the sieve ». In the name of Portuguese security, it is necessary to warn the Government that the right path is not what it has been doing. The right way is to look at our police and police agencies as decisive pillars for the maintenance of social peace and democratic experience. For this, it is essential to have a ready, ready and motivating response capacity, as police professionals have in their day-to-day missions. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u129	Mr President, the Bureau records five requests for clarification, to which, as we have been informed, it will respond in two blocks. For the first request for clarification, I give the floor to Mrs Susana Amador of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Fernando Negrão, I would like to congratulate you, on behalf of this parliamentary group, on bringing the issue of security to this House, a subject which we know is a fundamental condition of freedom and for what we want in terms of the pursuit of well-being, peace and also of the prestige of the country, democracy and our development. Security is increasingly a source of competitiveness between countries, and safe countries can attract more people and acquire more economic dynamics. As he pointed out, Portugal has, over the last 15 years, achieved a good line of continuity and dialogue between all parties, achieving very important levels with regard to violent crime and general crime, presenting a continuous, consolidated and stable decline. So we are considered a safe country—we are 6. the most peaceful country in the world—and that is also why Portugal has high levels of reputation among other European countries and the world, taking into account the various international missions, where our security forces continue this mission with high recognition. Mr President, this parliamentary group and the Government are very careful and have always been alert, in order to consolidate this path of Portugal as a safe, peaceful country, but without neglecting the problems or signs that the Annual Internal Security Reports give us. The latter, in particular, has given us signs concerning group and youth violence, domestic violence, which has to be once again a fight against all of us and all of society, and the hybrid and global threats, which are increasingly sophisticated, more demanding, so the cybersecurity strategy is essential to combat all these threats that Portugal is not immune to. I would like to ask you, Mr President, about these challenges that we have before us, which you said we were aware of, what is the importance that the PSD gives, in particular, to the one who will be the future model of proximity police, a model that integrates teams with the intervention of local authorities to complement the action. What importance does the PSD give to the new programming law, a law that will give EUR 607 million to 2022 - 2026, or to the integrated urban security strategy, which will strengthen local security contracts, the Safe School and other special programmes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u131	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u132	I conclude now, Mr President. There are many challenges ahead, and the valorisation of the security forces and the component of the admissions that are under way — around 2600 — will be fundamental to pursuing them, addressing, deepening, working and dialogue with all political forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u133	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u134	I conclude by saying that the challenge we face implies a sense of collective responsibility and, above all, a sense of state, as it passed in its intervention. Sensation of feelings of insecurity and isolated cases, as also mentioned here, do not do everything, because everything says we are a safe country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u135	To ask for clarification, I now give the floor to Mr Bruno Nunes of the Hague. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u136	Mr. President, in your own person, I welcome all those present. Today we started out in a strange way and so we continue. In fact, there was no strangeness in the way we started the work, when the Socialist Party almost standing thanks the Democratic Social Party for the majority it received and, in this way, greeted and struck palms, effusively, Rui Rio. But this may also be the day we realize that after all, the PS propaganda machine is selling the images on television, as in matters of security, we can today look at Marta Fear and realize that, while she was Minister of Health, she wore masks every day, but now the mask has fallen, it is no longer necessary, because, after all, she was nothing but to illustrate the news. Regarding the security situation, Luís Montenegro, during the weekend, said António Costa should give up political cowardice. We look at the security reports and we say that crime has come down, the Portuguese must all be mistaken. However, every day we call television and see crime rising, we see the police getting more and more disrespected, we see, all the time, whatever channel it is, attacks on the individual. You don't have to go to Loures, you don't have to go too far. In fact, Mr Fernando Negrão, as a member elected by the electoral circle of Setúbal, knows that Setúbal has very serious problems in this area. We're in a country where every cop knows they're almost always considered criminal when they take the gun, when they have to arrest someone. We heard interventions here today that I think the police should hear — I should pull the tape back! — to understand who is, after all, trying to defend it now. Whenever police forces are used, there's a stigma about all this. We have now heard the PS ask what the PSD's position on proximity teams will be when today the existing teams are closed. Mrs Susana Amador knows, for example, that in the municipality where she is President of the Municipal Assembly and in which I am a deputy, the squad of St. Anthony of the Knights closed at 19 hours, because she only has an agent, I repeat, an agent in there! [[Congrats from the CH.]] It's a shame to come and talk about the proximity teams, when you know there's no authority agents, when you know you don't respect the police's professional career, when you know there's no money to pay the police. The honourable Member spoke of the police linked to the municipalities, when they are at the door of the Prime Minister to protest! How dare you talk about this today with the municipal police expressing themselves out there? [[Congrats from the CH.]] I leave a question to the PSD: are you willing or not, following the language of your leader this weekend, to leave a certain kind of policy and to follow up on the arrival of a serious constitutional review, a serious reform of justice and the concrete increase in penalties for these criminals? This is because crime exists in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u137	In reply, Mr Fernando Negrão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u138	Mr President, Mrs Susana Amador, also thanking you for your words, your questions and the diagnosis you have made, which is obviously the government's diagnosis, I would like to tell you that today the PSP (PSP) has released the seizure of 75 weapons within or from schools. Therefore, the honourable Member refers only to good things at the level of crime in Portugal, but I would like to say that the others are not isolated cases. They are not and we have to look at them as cases that should motivate us, looking at the safe side of security. She asked me only questions about the relationship between security and social issues, between security and plans with authorities, between security and non-security issues. But we have to make it clear and realize that the police are not here to do social work. Security bodies — the PSP, the GNR ( Republican National Guard ), the Judicial Police ( PJ ), the SEF ( Foreign and Border Service ) and other forces that still exist — have a safe role in our society and we have to take on this because sometimes it gives us the feeling that we are ashamed that the police act and do what they have to do. That is what they do every day and with a democratic conscience. [[PSD applause.]] Our cops today have a democratic conscience! There is no need to be afraid of police action, because there are also supervisory bodies, which will act when there are excess police. But, Mrs Susana Amador, I ask you not to forget the security part of the role of the police, which is as important or more important than the social part, which is obviously equally important. In the context of domestic violence, in 2021, 13, in 2022, 17 ; use of weapons: fire, in 2021, 17, physical force, 10, white weapon, 12, other means, 12. Firearms were the most used instrument for committing crimes. As for attempted homicide in 2021, there were 151 and in 2022, 253. Mrs. Member, something is wrong with those increases from 2021 to 2022. Mr Bruno Nunes, with regard to the challenge of constitutional review and the increase in penalties, I would like to say to you, very frankly and directly, that my opinion is that we are not solving the problems. We can possibly get there, but before we have to solve other problems, such as that of the internal security framework in Portugal, which is not yet stabilized, is a framework full of problems, and the best example is what is happening with the SEF.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u139	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u140	We need to stabilize the Internal Security System, we need to give good working conditions, I repeat, good working conditions to the cops who are on the street every day doing the work that they are happily doing. We need to give them these conditions, because then I am sure we will have even better results. As for the constitutional review and the increase in penalties, the first, in its time, may arise; as for the increase in penalties, I confess that I am not acquitted of that solution. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u141	You now have the floor to make a request for clarification, Mr Rui Tavares, of the Free.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u142	Mr President, dear colleagues, I would like to wish everyone a good, full return to parliamentary work. Mr Fernando Negrão, insecurity is a subject that is both crucial and flammable, because however peaceful a country is, all insecurity is too much, all the victim of crime is one more victim, and for those who are the victim of a criminal act, the consequences of this act do not feel the proportion of insecurity in the country as a whole, they feel 100 % in the skin. It is in this sense that I would like to ask you something that is important for us, for this debate and for the debate that we are going to have next on the Annual Internal Security Report: is it credible or not? This is because we see parties here who want to question the credibility of RASI and even make committees of inquiry about it. There are two ways to look at the Annual Internal Security Report. One is to highlight what is good and what is bad, what is cause for concern and joy; another is to question the data coming in the Annual Internal Security Report so as to induce a feeling of insecurity even greater than it is in reality. There are parties here, in this Chamber—and we know exactly what they are! — who speak well of the police in everything and who speak of the courage of the police in everything,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u143	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u144	... but then, in the Annual Internal Security Report, which is collected by the police, or insinuates that they lie or accuse us of not having the courage to deal with political manipulations. So to a Member with his experience on the ground and, including, governmental in this area, the question that I leave is very simple: should we take the RASI data seriously or should we be concerned about the credibility of the report?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u145	He's stuttering. It looks like Joacine!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u146	That question is also essential for the next debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u147	To make a request for clarification, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of BE now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u148	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, your speech had some dubious phrases about your objectives and I wanted it to be absolutely transparent in your analysis and in the political consequences of this analysis. The honourable Member began by saying that RASI data account for Portugal as a safe country, but — and this 'but' is of no lesser importance — it has not been prevented from making the press review of the crime, since the first half of this year,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u149	Ah, can't you talk about criminals? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u150	... implying that, after all, RASI data say that Portugal is a safe country, but reality shows that Portugal is not a safe country. And, therefore, the question is very direct: do you trust the PSD, you trust the honourable Member in the data of the Annual Internal Security Report or not? Are they credible data, are they data resulting from the normal functioning of democracy, or are they data from which we should distrust? And this question is of no lesser importance, because there are other parties here, particularly the Arrival, who are suspicious of the information the police give. I would like to hear your very direct opinion on this matter. Secondly, Mr President, you have put a huge emphasis on the issues of youth and on the increase in crime, almost apparently saying that swindled phrase 'in my time it was good and now the young are all miserable'. I ask you, very directly, if you really understand that our society is insecure and that the motor of this insecurity is the young people, who are undermining the security of the country. This seems to give here the idea of a certain conservatism in the analysis of this problem of public security and internal security, to which we must always be attentive in any democratic society. Last question, which I think is not just a question: Mr President, he asked to emphasize a safe speech, at the same time that he said «see, at this time there is a news saying that 75 weapons were seized at the doors of the schools». The question I ask you is very simple and direct: was it not a safe speech that we saw, in other countries, leading to the increase in the possession of weapons, to a policy on arms and the legitimacy of its use by society, in a much larger and wider way, and in practice to the harmful consequences that you then wanted to denounce here? from the Left Block there are indeed criticisms to the government about how it treats security forces and services badly, how it does not care about social inequalities, thus promoting them with its policies and social exclusion that follows and also promoting the insecurity that happens there. We also criticise the way the government mismanaged the effectiveness of the security forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u151	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u152	I'm done now, Mr. President. I believe that there is no more caricature to present this than to remember that mobile post in the city of Porto, which, after all, had police who were attached to the Safe School or to other nearby programs and that, of so mobile that it was, remained immovable in the same place. This caricature shows a lot of a government that actually does not have a security policy, because it is in the middle of the bridge. I'd like to know which side of the bridge is that the honourable Member is staying. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u153	The last request for clarification to Mr Fernando Negrão belongs to Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP, who has the floor for this purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Fernando Negrão, I welcome the reflections that bring us, especially because they open up important discussion paths, from then on, as far as younger generations are concerned, and how the policies that have been followed give perspective to a different life, a different future, that correspond to and that empower these new generations, for the benefit of all of us.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u155	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u156	But we wanted to focus on one of the first issues that you have addressed and that has to do with those to whom we owe a lot of these positive safety figures, which are actually the police. It is the police who actually contribute to these results with the sacrifice of their personal rest, their personal life, their health, faced with very degraded conditions, from a material point of view, as we know well in several teams, and even with so often obsolete material. Therefore, the question I would like to leave, which has to do with the future and with that which will be the PSD position ahead, to take the measures that are necessary, is whether, contrary to the past, the PS did not have an absolute majority and the PSD vote would have been decisive, will accompany the PCP in the proposals for the review of the police pay table and for the risk allowance for the GNR and the PSP, on the way of the 400 €, as in other security forces. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u157	In reply, Mr Fernando Negrão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u158	Mr President, I begin by answering Mr Rui Tavares, following the order of questions. I would like to tell you, Mr Rui Tavares, that RASI, which has been a reliable report for more than a decade, is a report that has the contribution of all security forces and services, because these are the bodies that provide the Secretary-General of the Internal Security System with all the data. More: throughout all these years in which there is RASI, I have never seen any force, no security service nor any element of the forces or security services challenge the data it contains. It is not enough to give us the value of the credibility of the report, but basically, as regards the statistical part and the numbers that are provided, they are accepted by all the security forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u159	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u160	Therefore, I consider RASI to be a credible and valid document in the analysis of crime in Portugal. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, we will discuss both the issue of security is not easy, because we have two very different perspectives. I have a perspective which eventually integrates, in much greater volume, the security part, and the honourable Member, I will not say that he dispensates, but in some way puts aside a very important part of the work of our police, which is the security part. So he spoke here in a press magazine, when I mentioned five cases that occurred in half a dozen months this year and that are five cases of murder that occurred in very little time. What does that mean, sir? That means that the honourable Member is enough with RASI. Mr President, I strongly ask you to be a little bolder — I know that you are, because you are a smart man — and look at the country in which you live — I also know that you look — and make an effort, in the area of security, to analyze what is going on beyond RASI. What goes on beyond RASI is serious, and it is serious, for example, with regard to a band, which I spoke about there from the rostrum, of young people who are now grouped in organizations already with some sophistication, exclusively for the practice of crimes. This is a phenomenon that exists today and is already consolidated in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u161	It's gangs! Say your name!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u162	So we have to look at this and we have to begin to see what it takes to do so that this does not continue and does not grow. It is not through a committee that only has results in one year, it is not; it is meeting with the police, it is talking to the police. It is articulating with the police that we then have the ability to deal with these young people. I have not generalized with regard to young people. What I have said is that there is a phenomenon, and there are criminal phenomena of great concern right now, in Portugal, to which we need to be attentive. We must ask the Secretary-General of the Internal Security System whether he is paying attention; we must ask the security forces whether they are paying attention and what they are doing; and, above all, we must ask the Government not only to answer these problems within a year, because in one year we will have the problem to double, and we do not want these problems to double, much less as regards young people. That is why I have put this emphasis on young people, because it is necessary to put an end to this, it is necessary to prevent the phenomenon of crime from growing among young people. With regard to the part of the bridge, from other countries, of the possession of arms, Mr President, the PSD has a principle: the principle that the PSD defends is that the State has the monopoly of security. The PSD has never defended anything else, and if you ever give up a little of that security monopoly, that has to do with private security in some companies, in some hotels, but without police functions. So that's our position. The security monopoly in Portugal is the State and only the State can exercise it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u163	Mr Fernando Negrão, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u164	I will finish, Mr. President. Mrs Alma Rivera, we will naturally accompany the CFP or any other political force in the discussion of those which are the demands of forces and security services. The PSD, through its committee and the Members who are there, will work together, will give its opinion and, being concerned, as we are, with what is going on in the security forces, we will be at your side in discussing the best solutions and, I say more, up to possible solutions to the problems that police officers and security forces are going through. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u165	To give a political statement on behalf of the Arrival, Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the return and resumption of parliamentary work, it seems clear that the absolute majority of the Socialist Party is out of control. In health, we have had a change of Minister, but unfortunately we have the same situation: today and in the coming days, birth blocks, such as those of Bragança and Guarda, will continue to be closed. In education, despite the former Prime Minister's passion for education, we have schools without teachers, 65,000 students have a missing teacher and, only in the Lisbon district, 300 teachers are missing. All of these could be themes to bring today and should at least embarrass the Socialist Party, but today we have to talk about something deeper and that has so much affected the lives of the Portuguese, but here the parties prefer to look to the side. The country has a brutal feeling of insecurity not only because of the increase in violence and organized crime, such as the proliferation of juvenile gangs in the various districts of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u167	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u168	Between January and May of this year, it tripled the number of murders and attempted homicides, comparing with the same period last year. Last year, and only last year, 832 young people were arrested linked to gangs and juvenile crime. We all know that this has deeper causes and we all know that the country is not the paradise that RASI reports want us to believe and that the party system has led us to believe. Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, at the time we're talking here, police are showing up in Saint Bento. Police with miserable wages, with angry working conditions protest to have a minimum of dignity. I wanted here, in Parliament, on behalf of them and also in their voice, to pay tribute to the municipal police of all the councils of the country, which have fought so much for our safety. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The country that pays vital subsidies and that wanted to hire an advisor for Medina at gold price is the same country that pays 800 € to the police, is the same country that tells them that they are mere objects at the service of the system. Mr President, with your permission, I would like to share something confidential, but that will certainly have some impact on the country we have. These are the equipment in a police residence in Portugal. The speaker showed images of equipment. This should embarrass a country that pays wages like those that pay and that makes the cops live worse than animals inside these comrades, while we don't call them. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It is here and it is visible to be distributed by all parliamentary groups, if they wish. [[Congrats from the CH.]] We have these and hundreds of other images to distribute, but we could look at the side, as if the problem didn't exist. Mr President, I know you will not like what I am going to say now, but I will say this in the freedom that Parliament attaches to me, that the Constitution guarantees me and that the law assures me: in many of the episodes of violence in Portugal, in much of the terror that has been caused to our populations in so many districts of this country, at the time when they hear us, the Portuguese know that one of the major problems we have is with the Roma community in Portugal. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u169	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, as my predecessor has done, I would like to make a repair of what has happened in the last few weeks in Portugal: 'The group invades the urgent needs of the family hospital and causes three injuries' — group! The speaker posted a newspaper. Thirty people engaged in contempt at the door of Évora’s hospital — a week ago. The speaker posted a newspaper. Shooting in Vila Real caused three injuries and is related to a marriage between families and drug trafficking. The speaker posted a newspaper. « Death of Jesus: child had a burnt face, 131 injuries and was struck 27 times in the head». The speaker posted a newspaper. Yesterday, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, an official from a Setúbal bar who tried to save women who were being harassed was beaten, stabbed and killed inside that bar. The speaker posted a newspaper. Yesterday, at Almada Forum, a new shooting with a wounded child. The speaker posted a newspaper. And the news of Alentejo and Ribatejo are so many, so many, so many that I could launch them here and they would cover this Parliament. The speaker displayed sheets with news. There are so many reports of LNG soldiers who are offended and assaulted, of families who have been attacked every day, of owners of permanently harassed cafes and restaurants, of terrified populations, of schools where parents are afraid to take children and only for one reason that is: we are afraid to look at this huge problem in Portugal and we have no courage to face. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Yes, Mr. President and Mr. Members, we have not only had a permanent, articulated and consistent action in the field of crime as we know it, but also in the imposition of marriages between minors and, even in brutal disrespect to the rule of law, as happened here: with a dead military, this attacker's family is negotiating with the State whether or not they deliver it. The speaker posted a newspaper. My dear ones, this would not happen to me, with you, nor would it happen to many in Portugal. This news of a negotiation between the Gypsy community and the state to deliver an aggressor represents one thing: the brutal impunity that the Gypsy community has in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]] We could continue until yesterday, in Cascais, when they tried to get a police attacker brutally. We could continue until the time we are here, now, and it was so easy to look aside and say: "There is no problem, it is racism of the Arrival and its Members. » It was so easy to do this, but the Portuguese know that we are right, the Portuguese know that there is only one party able to tell the unquestionable, unmistakable and clear truth as water in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Maricá Maricá said that tolerated impunity becomes complicity. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Portuguese Members, I would not like to see Parliament, the State, the Government, the Assembly of the Republic, and I would not like to see the complicities of these serious crimes and, above all, the greatest impunity that has been experienced in Portugal since 25 April. It is time to act, it is time to do, and this is the truth that the Portuguese know. [[Ch's applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u170	Mr President, the Bureau does not record any entries for requests for clarification. [[CH protests.]] Article 89 ( 3 ). the Rules of Procedure oblige me once again to warn you that hurtful speeches cannot be given in this Parliament. No ethnic group, whatever it is, has exclusive or honesty, or evil. [[Greetings from PS and PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u171	To give a political statement on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mrs Carla Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u172	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I want to talk again about education. One in three and a half of the teachers have psychological suffering. This is the starting point for another school year, which starts bad. It is a policy of education that goes wrong, a policy without truth, without preparation and without people at the center. We need a real policy in education. As we have seen in the advertising of measures to combat the effects of inflation, education also offers a policy of deception. Education is teaching, it is conveying knowledge and it is also teaching to distinguish the true from the false. Unfortunately, it seems that in education too, the government offers a policy of deception. The government announces free manuals, but if we go to see the little letters, it's not for everyone, it's for some. The government announces free daycare for everyone, but if we go to see the little letters, the general is not for everyone, it is for some, and for them it is in benefits: now a little, in January another bit. Another mistake: the government announces that it will hire graduates, who will earn less than 1000 € liquid per month. This is not to enjoy those who work with, it is to enjoy those who teach, it is to enjoy those who have the teaching of future generations of this country. We need a policy of education with preparation, and the government offers a policy with confusion. Let us look at examples: there is no systematic data, there is no systematic evaluation, there is no evaluation of the own evaluations of educational policies. Aging in a teaching career is not a surprise. It did not appear one day to the other, it was perfectly predictable, but the government did not prepare itself. There are also major problems in funding universities, for example. There is a formula in the law, but the government does not apply it, nor does it change it. The government didn't get ready. We need to put people at the centre of education policy, but the government forgets. The government forgets students in special education, despite complaints from students, families and teachers — that is just forgetting who needs the most! — disregarding artistic education, with delay in the competitions, and forgetting the secondary students, who start school year without knowing the criteria of the examinations. And to these students the Minister of Education responds: "Students must study in the same way. Do not keep on seeking. ” The government has forgotten the teachers, the mobility for disease and the historic placements, at the hour, in schools. We've had time to solve this, to have policies that really care about teachers. The government forgets that lives do not have to be interrupted by algorithms that are not improved. Access to university continues to be centralized. Students and families only know about the placements a few days from starting classes or even after beginning. Time changes, time has accelerated, but the response time of the government has not changed. All this in a weak mental health context. students to the school community, the silent pandemic of mental health problems obscures teaching. The Ministry of Education did a first analysis—and well! — the state of mental health of students and teachers in Portuguese schools. Results? One in three students and half of the teachers present signs of psychological suffering. Another data from the questionnaire: students, the older they are, the more sad, angry or nervous they are. Question : is this what it is to grow in Portugal? To have a policy for the profession of teacher is not to say that it is a worthy and fundamental profession. Serving the interests of a generation is not saying that she is the most prepared. And ruling is not advertising. In a growing view of Portugal, Portugal must also be a good place to grow, to learn and to teach. I finish as I began: one in every three students and half of the teachers have psychological suffering. This is the starting point for a school year that started badly, with a policy of education without truth, without preparation and without people in the center. It is against this reality that we must fight, and it is also to combat this which I will use my mandate. We must have an education policy with the autonomy of schools and effective decentralization, with respect to the freedom of families, with respect to the merit and reward of teachers. We must fight for a country with equal opportunities and fight for social mobility, which the Liberal Initiative both defends. We will not resign ourselves to growing up in Portugal like this. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[In the meantime, he took the presidency of Vice-President Adam Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u173	To date, the Bureau records five entries for requests for clarification. Would you like to respond to requests in what way?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u174	I'll answer in two blocks, Mr. President. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u175	After all, the Bureau records that the orders have become six. V. Ex.a.'s intervention is being valued.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u176	It's the market! It's the market! [[Rice from IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u177	Let's then state who the gentlemen are. Members seeking clarification from Mrs Carla Castro : by the PSD, Mrs Sónia Ramos ; by the Chega, Mr Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro ; by the Livre, Mr Rui Tavares ; by the PCP, Mrs Paula Santos ; by the Bloque de Left, Mrs Joana Mortágua ; and by the Socialist Party, Mr Porfirio Silva. Mr Sonia Ramos of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor to make a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Carla Castro, thank you very much for your reflection here today. In fact, we started school with 60 000 students without at least one teacher. We finished the previous school year without teachers for 7000 students. under these conditions, the government announces, with pump and circumstance, the opening of the school year, by chance in my district, in Évora. More than half of the teachers are going to retire by 2030 — it is a conclusion of a study that the government has commissioned. Mrs. Members, what measures will be implemented to ensure that students will have teachers and, above all, to ensure the stability of learning in schools? Lack of resources, bureaucracy is excessive and duplication of procedures remains. The progressive degradation of the teaching condition is a matter of concern. Like the previous school year, students will start their classes with holes at the time, due to the absence of Portuguese teachers, Philosophy, Mathematics, Geography, English, Computers and ICT (Information and Communication Technologies), and with certainty that this situation will be dragged by the end of the year. Families will once again have no guarantee that the Ministry of Education and the Government will fulfil their obligation, which corresponds to the constitutionally guaranteed right to learn. This is why the Government demonstrates once again its incompetence, impreparation and lack of strategic planning in education policy at the beginning of this school year. Since we're talking about education, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is appropriate to ask: with this behaviour, does the government not deserve repudiation? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u179	Mr Gabriel Mithá Ribeiro has the floor to request clarification on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to extend a special greeting to a PS Member who recently called for me — I do not know if they are missing! — but I would like to leave a special word for Mrs Carla Castro of the Liberal Initiative for bringing the debate on education to the political field on the right. This will be the greatest social defeat on the left or a great victory of freedom and democracy, because there is a vice on the left to rob the state, to empty society. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u181	And it emptied society usurping families the right to teach.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u182	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u183	He argued in this Parliament that education is a family right and that the State should be limited to education. This is how we protect society from State abuse, to every new generation. [[Congrats from the CH.]] This is the only way to generate civic and cultural traditions of freedom of thought, to say, to act, to defend the autonomy of institutions, to teach and to learn — which rightly concerns the Liberal Initiative — and to liberalise the economy. The problem is that the PSD and the Liberal Initiative voted against this proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u184	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u185	They were on the left side. The Liberal Initiative today brings a number of important concerns. He listed the psychological suffering of teachers, school textbooks, the question of pre-school education, the response to the lack of teachers, the aging of teachers and special and artistic education. The problem is that it does not appear in the discourse of the Liberal Initiative a reformist orientation that goes to the fundamental question, which is the ideological question.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u186	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u187	the Liberal Initiative flees. I'm done with two brief questions. First of all: how does the Liberal Initiative intend to defend the quality of education in a classroom in a suburban neighborhood — I say no more problematic! —...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u188	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u189	... of Leiria, Lisbon, Setúbal, Porto, and out there? Second question: does it not seem to you that your speech goes next to what is socially sensitive and decisive to the overwhelmingly dominant public education? It seems to me that about 80 % of the Portuguese population is being sidetracked. That is why the left thanks the discourse of the Liberal Initiative. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u190	Now, for a request for clarification, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor. Then Mrs Carla Castro will answer the three questions that have been raised to her.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u191	Mr President, Mrs Carla Castro, our ideological differences on many subjects are well known and would quickly exhaust my minute and your minutes to answer. Therefore, we should focus on what we agree with: concern about the impact of the pandemic on education in Portugal and the impact of the lack of teachers in this generation of students. It is true that pedagogical science has known for many centuries that it is not learned by metro, i.e., that the hours of present classes that were missing during the pandemic cannot be suppressed in the following summer or the following year. The recovery must be done with the eyes placed in the medium or long term and must be carried out following the school history of who, for example, started the secondary school now, taking into account the 12. the year and the entrance to the university. I would therefore like to see what solutions for this long-term medium have the Liberal Initiative. I present a clue that has to do with 12. the year: he no longer performs the function he performed before, which was to be the funnel before access to higher education. at this moment, the 12th. the year would not have to gain to be transformed into a kind of zero year of higher education, offering a broad basis of knowledge, probably some of them already in a university environment? In addition, I ask: for the mental health crisis, I defend...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u192	Mr President, you really have to finish, you don't have time for the second question.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u193	It's very fast, Mr. President. Today we have seen many people exceed their time in much more. [[CH protests.]] I defend, as is evident, public investment in mental health, including psychologists in schools. For that, more money is needed from the state. Will the Liberal Initiative follow my proposal?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u194	To answer this question also put by Mr Rui Tavares, you have the floor of Mrs Carla Castro. By the way, I am alert that has 3 minutes, as far as possible, to answer the three questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u195	Mr President, I will try to be as deep as possible in my own time, but we will have many occasions to deepen each of these issues. I begin by thanking the PSD for the intervention and the concerns it has expressed, which we share, as we share the challenge that we do not only need concerns. The government needs not only reflection, but answers, effective action. This is one of the issues that we most complain about: not enough diagnoses, not enough reflections, we actually have to start to action. On the causes of the Liberal Initiative, let me also clarify a « bug-pap » : the Liberal Initiative has deep social concerns. It is a party that is systematically concerned with equal opportunities, with growth, with the absence of a country, either in health, or in education, which is one country for the rich and another for the poor. It can't be a more friendly party to social causes. The parties that are not friends of social causes are the parties, or the governance arches, which place a country with 40% of the population on the edge of poverty. These, yes, are parties and governments that have no social concerns. It is in social mobility and equal opportunities that education policy can most contribute and, therefore, education policy is a fundamental thing to be strengthened. The state is to exist where it is most necessary, for example, in special education, which fails across the line. This is not tolerable!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u196	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u197	With regard to private education, suburbs, suburbs and issues that have raised around it, it is not possible to think that one country is not being created with one education for the rich and the other for the poor, when, for example, the evidence is so clear. We are in the year with the highest number of enrollments in private education, in high school.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u198	Thank you, PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u199	Since April 25, there have never been so many students in private education, in high school. Why? Because of the failure of public schools. Once again, access is not only to the public, but to the private. Access is to a quality education and as long as we do not take this ideological grail, as long as we cannot make progress on it... It is not a private, public day—that doesn't even exist—or social, it's about access to a daycare, that's what we have to be talking about, and as long as we don't decentralise this discussion, we won't be able to evolve and the country has fallen back on these levels. Finally, with regard to the intervention of the Free Member, the recovery of learning and the concern of presence at school have been questions on which the Liberal Initiative has been quite vocal, even during the pandemic. It is very important, now that the evil is done, we will try to recover as quickly and silently as possible. This is not only about tutoring and resources, it is also about something very important and that, for us, it is very important to evaluate. We mustn't be afraid to evaluate. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u200	Then I will try to return to this issue in the second part of the answer to requests for clarification, but tutoring programmes and everything else, very well; however, it is very important to decentralise and give autonomy to schools. The pedagogical processes, the specific needs need to be met and this involves a strong decentralization and autonomy of schools. For now, I'll stay here. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u201	Thank you very much, Mrs Carla Castro, especially for the way you managed your response time. We now have a request for clarification from the CFP Parliamentary Group. Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u202	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, in fact this school year begins with more than 60 000 students without a teacher in all disciplines. If there was a party here in the Assembly of the Republic, which alerted to this circumstance and made concrete proposals to try to overcome this problem, it was the CFP. [[All right! He's well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u203	The devaluation of the profession and career, the fact that there is no rejuvenation of teachers in public school, the progressive aging that is now also on the table and the prospects of retirements very significant in the coming years, and that students in training do not allow to supply the expected number of teachers who will retire, are aspects that result from the political options of successive governments that have not allowed an effective appreciation of the profession and career. The honourable Member, in her speech, referred to the need for policies that really care about teachers and we believe that there is a need for an appreciation of the profession and career. We have brought here a proposal to link all teachers with three or more years of service that correspond to permanent needs and can be integrated into the career to ensure stability. This initiative did not count on the favourable vote by the Liberal Initiative. We also made a proposal to eliminate quotas in access to 5. o and 7. the steps of the teaching career. Today there are a number of teachers who cannot progress because of these quotas and there are not enough vacancies for this progression. This proposal was voted against by the Liberal Initiative. I also recall, Mrs Deputy, that even in the discussion of the State budget for 2022 we brought forward a proposal for the accounting of all the time of service of teachers. It also did not deserve the favourable vote on the Liberal Initiative. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u204	We are talking about proposals that are fundamental to career development, are fundamental to the valorization of the profession, to attract younger people to this profession, are fundamental to ensuring that all students have all teachers in all disciplines, but it seems that "the mountain has set a mouse" and, on the part of the Liberal Initiative, their words do not then correspond to positioning on the basis of concrete proposals and solutions, which, if they had been approved today, would certainly be different for the better. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u205	On behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Joana Mortágua has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u206	Mr President, I would like to greet Mrs Carla Castro for bringing this up. We share much of the diagnosis and think that we cannot escape it: teachers are, yes, exhausted and in burnout; there is a lack of teachers and investment; many of them will retire. There was an ageing course of the teaching class that was predictable, that was in front of everyone, but that the government did not want to resolve. There is a problem of the relocation of teachers to the districts of Setúbal and Lisbon and to the Algarve of their residences of origin, which are mainly in the North. There's a problem of teachers with the house behind their backs, who don't have any money to pay for accommodation or transportation. So there's a public investment problem in public school. It is in response to this problem, in response to this diagnosis, that our differences are absolute, because, while the Left Block defends the appreciation of teachers, so that they can be fixed and attracted to public school, and the qualification of public school, the Liberal Initiative defends a model of public school definition. The model of the teaching check, which has been experimented in a way still mitigated and refused by the country in association contracts, has shown not only in Portugal, as in other countries, a waste of public money, with various risks to the teaching system. I give the example of Sweden, in which also to cope with difficulties in public school, its government has decided to install an education market that quickly proved inefficient and of very little quality for educational results. In addition, in the PISA (International Student Evaluation Programme), Sweden was exceeded by Portugal during the duration of this model. And this model also showed its inefficiencies from the market point of view, because schools, as soon as they stopped making profits, closed the doors. At the time, it was said that it was easier to open a school than a hot dog bank and, when the large investment funds that had invested in private schools in Sweden began to go to ruin, the students began to stop having classes, because there was no one responsible for their education. The model that the Liberal Initiative defends is a model of waste of public money, is a model that will ultimately lead to the total definition of public school and to put the education of students in the hands of the market, as the Liberal Initiative defends that it is done in relation to housing in higher education. It is to see what this would mean in the right to education in non-higher education. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u207	The growth of schools is due to the left!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u208	To complete the requests for clarification, I give the floor to Mr Porfirio Silva of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u209	Mr President, Mrs Carla Castro, I welcome you for bringing up an important issue: education. In fact, he has talked about several subjects and we will not be able to talk about them all here, but the essential question of all their intervention forgets one thing: there is no freedom to teach and learn without public school and the Liberal Initiative systematically forgets this. That's the big problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u210	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u211	That's why everyone gets out of there!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u212	I will focus only on a problem, which is the issue of the availability of teachers in sufficient quantity and quality for public school. It is true that Portugal needs more teachers. It is even curious that there were political forces with great responsibilities, such as the PSD, which said, through the mouth of its President, that there were more teachers and now they already recognize that there is this problem. Good! This problem is shared by several countries, but this does not console us, because we are really involved in solving it in the case of Portugal in two aspects: immediate measures and measures in the longer term. The immediate measures to be taken — renewal of contracts, incomplete schedules spent at full times, changes in mobility — have already enabled us to have fewer than 2500 hours now than the same time in the previous academic year would still be without competition and without a teacher. So in this way of attacking the immediate problems, something is working out.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u213	Do students run away to the private? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u214	And it was in a very simple way, betting on the autonomy of schools. It was because we gave more speed to the hiring of schools that we had this advance. But there are longer-term measures and I would like to ask you a very specific question, so that we can look forward to it. To end the teacher's career model with the house behind him—sometimes, for decades, that is something we cannot admit—we have to change the system of selecting and recruiting teachers. It was the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group that, already two legislatures ago, brought this issue here, with the abstention of the generality of the other parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u215	Go, go!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u216	The Minister of Education, who is committed and has already started talking to the unions to start this discussion,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u217	Mr. Deputy has to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u218	... spoke a few days ago in a matter on which I wanted to question her very directly. The Minister of Education said that we need to give schools the capacity to have some possibility of direct recruitment and direct linkage, to increase specific skills, the ability to respond to specific projects. Schools aren't all the same. Schools must have the ability to recruit according to their needs. Do you agree that this is a way to explore? Do you agree that we need to move forward in this direction, in line with what the PS governments have done, increasing the autonomy of schools, increasing pedagogical autonomy, increasing curriculum flexibility?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u219	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u220	It is a debate that we would like to have seriously, even though there are some people in the Chamber who clearly do not want to let what is being discussed be heard. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Rice and applause from members of the CH and IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u221	Mr Porfirio Silva is really very excited about your questions. We now give the floor to Mrs Carla Castro to answer the three colleagues.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u222	Mr President, the fact that requests for clarification come from the PS, the Left Block and the PCP makes it easier for me to answer a little bit because there is something common between government and government solutions in recent years between these three parties. So there are criticisms that I am making that will be common, because indeed you cannot resign from the political options that have been taken in recent years.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u223	Ladies and gentlemen, you've been there!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u224	However, to speed up, I will start with the end, with regard to the hiring of teachers. We've been very clear. It is also in the program, in the famous and extensive programme, the agileization of the hiring of teachers in an autonomous and decentralized way in the schools themselves, but, attention is a pedagogical and administrative autonomy and also financial, because financial resources must also be included. Looks like we're not talking in the same framework when we talk about education. It seems that we are not talking about a school in which there is increasingly a gap of learning among the most disadvantaged students, of worse socio-economic frameworks, vis-à-vis the others. The social elevator is worsened, there are more students in private, in secondary education, since April 25. And who did this? They were not the rulers of Sweden. He's been in Portugal and he's been in the last few years! Therefore, the degradation of education and the situation of students, particularly the most disadvantaged, is here in Portugal and is solely the fault of the last governments. With regard to the concrete proposals, particularly those which the honourable Member of the CFP is talking about, we have often clarified this out there, but we have to clarify here too: a title is not enough to appreciate a proposal. The Liberal Initiative never does that. There is a title, there is a statement of reasons and there is the proposal and, as long as the title can be a great merit, the solution can be diametrically opposed.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u225	Don't talk about titles, talk about contents!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u226	For example, statistical and centralizing policies. There may be some exception, it may happen, but obviously we tend to diverge into the solution. And more: the solutions pointed out have brought us to this gap. I talked about the problem of students, but let's look at the teachers: low reforms, half psychological suffering and 60 000 students without full hours. Can anyone look, with a serious look, and think politics has been doing well?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u227	It's been a success!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u228	And it wasn't the Liberal Initiative, it wasn't the liberal popes. The Liberal Initiative is here, yes, to help solve, but it is not with these policies, because, with the wrong policies in it, we will only aggravate the problems. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u229	And the teachers are cannon meat!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u230	We shall now turn to the political statement by Mrs Paula Santos by the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u231	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are about 60 000 students who start classes this week without having teachers in all disciplines. There is no reason for rejoicing, as the Minister of Education has revealed, is rather a cause for great concern. This is a number that will probably increase when medical discharges are delivered by teachers who do not have health conditions to teach and as applications for the retirement of teachers are deferred. Once again, a new school year begins without ensuring the conditions for the proper functioning of the public school, nor for ensuring the quality of learning.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u232	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u233	In order to combat the lack of teachers in public school, the CFP today, at the Conference of Leaders, for discussion on 30 September, in the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic, a bill with a view to adopting immediate measures, including the allocation of a supplement for accommodation and travel to teachers. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP has long been alerting and reporting on the many problems affecting public school, including the lack of teachers. We have warned of the need to move forward with immediate measures and structural measures to overcome the problem, measures proposed by the CFP that the Government, often with the support of the PSD, the CDS, the IL and the Arrival, rejects the extraordinary linkage of teachers with three or more years of proven permanent functions, refuses the accounting of all the time of service for the purpose of advancing the teaching career, refuses to put an end to quotas in access to the 5. a is 7. the steps of the teaching career. The lack of teachers in public school is the result of the devaluation of the profession and career pursued by successive governments. What perspective does the government guarantee to a young man who claims to be a teacher? Wait 15, 20 or more years to enter the race? And after entering the race, wait a few more years until you have a chance to access the 5th. a is 7. The stairs? To be placed 200, 300 or more miles away from your place of residence? Have to bear the charges with two dwellings? The government does not guarantee any prospect of stability, which has led to the abandonment of the profession by many teachers and leads many young people to make other choices for their lives. The problem of lack of teachers is not solved by attacking their rights, as the government has done with changes introduced in mobility by disease, forcing teachers with serious health problems to learn away from the area of residence or treatment, with the hiring of graduates without professional qualifications, which represents a backwardness and will have consequences on the quality of the pedagogical responses, or with the maintenance of thousands of teachers with precarious links, when they should already be in the career. Nor is the problem of lack of teachers solved without facing their structural causes. To ensure that all students have all teachers require the valorization of the profession and career; to negotiate with the unions to ensure working conditions; to combat the precariousness and linkage of teachers with effect on 1 September, primarily of those who have 10 or more years of service; to rejuvenation of the profession; to create support for the travel and housing of teachers and to create mechanisms that allow the teaching of teachers who have performed these functions under the condition of contracts and have, however, chosen by other professional activities.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u234	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u235	The conditions for the recovery of learning are also not guaranteed. in which it is « year 1 », considering that the previous was « year 0 », of the recovery of learning, the government does not guarantee the necessary means to improve student learning, since there are no specialized teachers and technicians, but also because it did not advance in the reduction of the number of students per class. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Only with the determined and persistent intervention of the CFP was it possible to achieve the freeness of school textbooks — even against the will of the PS — which proved essential to advance equality between children and young people.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u236	Well remembered! [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u237	We must consolidate and take new steps, particularly with the freeness of exercise card books, in order to contribute to school success. There are still many inequalities resulting from the economic and financial conditions of families. Costs with paperbooks and school material continue to be significant in the budget of many families, especially families with lower incomes, which has worsened in the beginning of this school year with the increase in prices, which is also reflected in spending on education and the loss of purchasing power of families. Strengthening school social action, extending the access criteria and their amounts, is of great importance in fulfilling the constitutional principle of equality in access, frequency and success at school for all children and young people.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u238	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u239	Public school is the solution to ensure the right to education. It is education and knowledge that contribute decisively to the integral formation of the individual, a crucial element for individual and collective emancipation, for the development of society, and that it is possible only with another policy of investment in public school, quality, valorization of its workers and guarantee of freeness and equality, as proposed by the CFP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u240	The Bureau recorded four requests for clarification: by the Left Block, Mrs Joana Mortágua ; by the Arrival, Mr Jorge Galveias ; by the Socialist Party, Mr Tiago Estêvão Martins ; by the PSD, Mrs Cláudia André. How do you prefer to answer, Mrs. Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u241	In blocks of two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u242	You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mrs. Joana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u243	Mr President, Mrs Paula Santos, indeed the beginning of this school year, despite the Government's satisfaction on the basis of the idea that it could be worse, because it did not reach the numbers that PORDATA, the Database of Contemporary Portugal, had planned - despite that, contentment is little and is weak, given the reality, because many teachers are still lacking for many students to disciplines and the solutions that have been found are solutions that do not guarantee a structural response to aging, to teacher precariousness and to lack of teachers. I would like to ask you for a few brief comments on three of the measures that the Government has taken, or that it has not taken and that we believe they would have an influence on this matter. The first has to do with the circumstantial measures. In other words, to ensure that teachers are in schools, what the government did was to remove hundreds of teachers who were prominent in the authorities, in social institutions, in scientific centers, such as the Clubs Ciência Viva, who today have very few teachers and who were so important, being part of the scientific project and promotion of the science of Minister Mariano Gago, of which the PS was so proud. Well, they were stripped of teachers thanks to these government contingent measures, in addition to the issue of mobility per disease, which could lead to an increase in the number of casualties. The second question on which I wanted to ask for your comment has to do with Mr Porfirio Silva's intervention here, on another point, which is the growing appreciation that the Socialist Party and the Government make of the school hiring of teachers, recalling that a model very similar to this excessive appreciation of the school hiring was implemented in Portugal during the government of Nuno Crato. It was called the ECB ( School Contract Exchange ) and led to a chaos in the placement of teachers, precisely because schools were left to interview and choose the teachers they wanted. There was no graduated list, there was no justice in the placements, and there was a chaos that led, in fact, to serious problems at the beginning of the school year. I shall end with the last request for comment on whether the 2 % wage update announced as a reference base for the salary update of the public service will be sufficient for the appreciation of teachers who, in addition to the careers that have been frozen so long,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u244	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u245	... they face the precariousness and when they finally get into the career, in addition to difficulties in progress, they see the Minister of Finance say that they deserve no more than 2% of the update and will therefore lose wages in relation to inflation. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u246	In addition to a request for clarification to Mrs Paula Santos, Mr Galveias has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Jorge Galveias.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u247	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, before, a note to reply to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, who, when the arrival left the Chamber at the last session before the parliamentary holiday, said « now breathes better». It's just that now, since the beginning of this legislature, it breathes even better, because we are 12 and you have gone to 5. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u248	He spent the summer thinking about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u249	If there is no respect, it is not respected either.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u250	Mrs Paula Santos, it is worth recalling — because families and teachers do not forget — the perfectly deplorable state of education in Portugal, a deplorable state that has had the contribution of the CFP, which was rejected by the Socialist Party and its government. The question that I leave to you is the following, since we are today in a follow-up: since the CFP is aware of the misfortune that has been coming down on education in Portugal for years, would it follow the CFP to arrive at a real reform of teaching that would end the ideological burden of teaching? The answer is no, obviously, but I leave this question here. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Rice from Members of the CFP and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u251	To reply to the honourable Members. previous Members have the floor to Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u252	Mr President, I thank the questions and would like to begin with the questions put by Mrs Joana Mortagua of the Left Block. The honourable Member raises three aspects to which I would like to refer. Of course, the measures put forward by the government were far from what is needed, but in addition to being structural and not solving the fundamental problems that are responsible for this lack of teachers, the government opted for a line of attack on teachers' own rights. In fact, changes in mobility for disease are a very significant example, requiring teachers to learn when they do not have health conditions for this, often far from their area of residence or their area of treatment. We also show concern about a set of projects and interventions by many of these teachers. In particular, he referred here to the Life Science, in which many teachers ceased to have activity. This reveals, as I said earlier, the lack of structural measures, because what was decisive and structural to, in fact, overcome this difficulty would be the appreciation of the career,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u253	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u254	... but there is no measure in this regard either of the Socialist Party or of the Government. It is important to value the profession, to link teachers who have been working for years and years on the one hand to effectively integrate the career and can end this precariousness that continues to exist and that the government continues to promote. As for the second aspect, regarding the hiring of teachers, we believe that the most appropriate and fairer solution for all is the graduated list, and this has been the intervention by the CFP. With regard to remuneration, what is crucial is to regain the purchasing power of workers' wages, of all workers, to regain the lost purchasing power. These are fundamental issues.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u255	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u256	Regarding the questions put by the party, I note that the lack of teachers and the high number of students who do not have teachers in all disciplines did not deserve any consideration or intervention at this time, and it is a very serious and serious problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u257	You don't want to know that for nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u258	But let me still say that if it were not the CFP's intervention today, there would not be free school textbooks. This was a fundamental measure to ensure school success, a fundamental measure to combat the inequalities that were due to the intervention of the CFP, and not of any other party. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u259	To make a request for clarification on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Tiago Estêvão Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u260	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Paula Santos, I should like to tell you that I have heard your statement with particular attention and that I can draw two fundamental points, one of convergence and another of profound divergence. I would like to start with convergence, because in fact this arises from the recognition of some gaps in the service that we provide, in the service of public school, which obviously require a certain action, which is, in fact, what has guided us. But it would also be interesting if we could address the aspects that lead to the profound divergence, which, in fact, I would like to introduce in this debate. If there are aspects that deserve our attention and concern, the truth is that the characterization that the PCP repeatedly makes every school year is too much. If we were to make the history of all the CFP interventions in the beginning of the academic years of the last few decades, we would have a very pale image of that which is reality, to do the same to other parties, who certainly have other assumptions than those we defend.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u261	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u262	The fact is that reality is not so tanned!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u263	There is a very big difference between not turning your back on the problems and ignoring the virtues, which is something very different, and that is exactly where the path of moderation is. The truth is, if the portrait that you bring us was realistic, we would have a failed public school, to contrast with the reality of the most qualified generation ever. So I would like to bring you some data to add to your perspective, not delaying much, given the time I have. I speak of this second year of the Learning Recovery Plan, with more than 1200 specialized technicians, more than 1300 teachers— plus 1300 TSIs (full-time equivalent), to be rigorous — 440 groupings on the National Plan of Arts and installation and modernization of 365 specialized technological centers, with 12,000 students with digital manuals, to contrast with the nine classes of three years ago, which join all students with free manuals, which, in fact, adds to a collective effort that we have done since 2015. So the question that I leave you with, to be very synthetic, and I would like you to add to your reflection, because I saw her disappear in the one that was the exhibition that brought us here, is precisely a very simple question: how does the honourable Member think to coaduce the one that is the electoral commitment of the PCP, from reducing the number of students per class to 22, with the lack of teachers who identified here? I think it would be very interesting to understand. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u264	The last request for clarification comes from the PSD Parliamentary Group, by Mrs Cláudia André.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u265	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Paula Santos brings us the greatest concern we should have about the future of the country: there are students without a teacher in number who tend to get worse during this and the next school year. The CFP has listed the proposals it has made over the years. Question: Where have you been in the last seven years? Who did they rule with? With the PS, in the management! [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] The PS lists great facts, as if it had just arrived at the government, lists its major remedies, because there are no teachers, and states that it will now solve the problem. Question : Where has PS been for these seven years? The PS governments, approved by the PCP and the Left Block, have promoted national teacher competitions over these seven years. In 2017, 2018 and 2021, there were competitions from teachers that promoted the placement of teachers at national level. Where were all the miracle proposals put forward here, however? [[PCP protests.]] The PS government has also promoted external competitions every year, which is the same as saying that they have used in the tables of the hired state teachers who have complied with what the norm-work requires, but have not opened one more wave beyond what the law has forced. They didn't open any more vacancies than the law required! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u266	That's why there are no teachers!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u267	That's not true! They opened 11,000 vacancies!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u268	They still announce great measures and promises, as if they were in the first term, as if they had just taken possession today, but what we really care about is the students and what is true is that they are not having a quality public school, my gentlemen! They can paint, take the Photoshop and change the portrait of education about everything we feel in schools, but what is true is that public school, which we all defend, is not improving.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u269	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u270	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u271	I'm done now, Mr. President. The responsible for these last seven years has been the PS government, supported by the PCP and the Left Block. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u272	You gave the saying for not saying!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u273	To respond to these two requests for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u274	Mr President, I am grateful for the questions raised. Mrs. Cláudia André, allow me to correct you, for I wonder where the honourable Member and her party have been. If the honourable Member does not remember, I remember that when a proposal was discussed in the Assembly of the Republic for the accounting of the time of service, who gave his hand to the Socialist Party was the PSD! Who prevented the proposal from being approved and all the time of the teachers' service was the PSD! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u275	It wasn't, no! It wasn't, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u276	Mrs. Deputy, you've never been missing... [[PSD protests.]] Listen, hear to remember!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u277	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, please allow Mrs Paula Santos to respond within a harmonious and quiet climate.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u278	At least respectable!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u279	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Member, let me remind you that there has never been a lack of proposals from the CFP for the valorisation of public school, for the improvement of student learning conditions, for the valorisation of teachers, so that they want to continue to serve as teachers in public school. What was missing was political will on the part of the Socialist Party, but also the PSD, who did not follow these proposals from the CFP. [[Budgets have been approved!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u280	Where were the honourable Member and the PSD when we brought to the Assembly of the Republic the links of the teachers, to all those who have three or more years of service, so that there are more vacancies for the link, as the honourable Member mentioned here? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u281	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u282	Where did you get these teachers to be integrated in the career?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u283	He was with the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u284	PSD voted against, Mrs. Member! And it allowed the teachers to continue in a circle of precariousness, that they have no link and that they have not integrated the career. [[PCP applause.]] I therefore believe that, as far as responsibilities were concerned, it was clear that the improvements that had been made, Mrs Deputies, were due to the intervention of the CFP, for example, in school textbooks, because, if we had not been us, this would not have been achieved. And it was no longer because the other parties did not have the political will to do so. [[PCP applause.]] Regarding the questions put by Mr Tiago Estêvão Martins of the PS, I would like to mention the following: What is wrong in public school is the political options of successive PSD and CDS governments, but also the PS. [[Hey!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u285	He raised a very specific question about how we would be able to move forward with the reduction of the number of students per class, which is essential for closer follow-up of the students by the teachers. I tell you, Mr Tiago Estévão Martins, that, in the speech I had the opportunity to do - you said that you were attentive, but it was not so much of a point of view - what we have referred to was the need for career development. Where is the Socialist Party in valuing career, in negotiating with the unions, in guaranteeing working conditions? [[Answer the question!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u286	Where was the Socialist Party? He refused and is not moving forward in that direction. [[You're not answering the question! Don't answer!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u287	Where is the Socialist Party to combat the precariousness of teachers and integrate into career all those who perform permanent functions?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u288	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u289	Where is the Socialist Party to create conditions for teachers who have left the profession to return? Mr President, I now leave you with a challenge because you are looking for solutions - it seems that the PS does not have them, as you see - and the problems are there: on 30 September, in the Assembly of the Republic, we will have an opportunity to discuss and vote on a proposal to create the conditions for setting teachers and for more teachers to be taught for students. Let's see what the Socialist Party's position will be. Will you be next to the PCP for the appreciation of teachers, or will you again, as your political option has been, refuse these solutions?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u290	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u291	It is that what the Socialist Party has implemented does not, in fact, allow this appreciation of the profession and career, so fundamental to ensure that all students have all teachers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u292	This concludes the intervention of the CFP Parliamentary Group and we shall now give the floor to a political statement to Mr Rui Tavares of the Free.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u293	Mr. President, Dear colleagues : Today, by coincidence, we have for the first time met the flag of the European Union on the balcony of the Assembly of the Republic,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u294	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u295	... on the same day that the speech on the state of the Union was given in the European Parliament, by the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen. But the debate on the state of the European Union in the Assembly of the Republic will take place only on 28, i.e. within 15 days. I would quite frankly prefer that our relationship with Europe, which is so decisive, current and present in our lives, should not remain symbolic and late, but be practical and time-consuming. I would prefer that in Portugal we should not have expected to see a speech by the President of the European Commission — which a large part of the press considered to be flameless and without vision — to hear for the first time talk of excessive, unjustified and extraordinary profits from companies, or price-setting, and hope that it will finally be through Brussels that the government in Lisbon will talk about these issues. Once again, in the Assembly of the Republic — and it is true, Mrs Alma Rivera — the parties to the left of the PS brought these issues to the table. Let us see if it is now that the European Commission of the European People's Party is talking about over-taxing profits and price-setting, that the PS finally reminds itself that it cannot respond to the Brussels bubble with the Lisbon bubble, making the Lisbon box against proposals that are necessary in a war period. Faces and Dear Colleagues, during the pandemic was told to people who viewed the pandemic as a war. And now that we're at war, how does the government expect to face the war? Is it allowing itself to be overcome by the Brussels bubble, on such crucial issues as these, when it is in the face that, at this historic moment, governments must take bold measures to protect their populations, to protect Europe as well? Today, the European Commission presented the project of a European hydrogen bank, with EUR 3000 million in initial investment in the hydrogen area. Dear Members of the Socialist Party, since the beginning of this legislation the Free House speaks here of the necessary creation of a public hydrogen company — the 'Hydrogenios de Portugal' — an agency in this area. And why do we talk about it? Because the companies, in electricity or telecommunications, that in the 20th century were large and that the right sold to make profits, to make large financial deposits, were great because in times at the beginning of these energy revolutions they were still small and there were those who took advantage of the energy revolution that came there. And one day, Portugal will have a large public company, « Hydrogens of Portugal », if it does it, even if small, now. Now that there is European money, will you finally take that money to create the 'Hydrogens of Portugal'? The Free will come back and we hope that you will hear this time, because it seems that until the European right it already agrees. Clearly, it is necessary to pay attention to the fact that not everything that appears in a speech in the state of the Union is to take it fully seriously, but rather to monitor day by day, to see whether it has been implemented or not. We can easily make the history of previous speeches and see many promises not fulfilled in a discourse of the state of the Union. Just remember a crucial element — whether there is a democratic European Union or not — the promises of von der Leyen on the rule of law in the European Union to see how they are being promised in vain. In its candidacy to the European Commission, it refers to zero tolerance for failures in the rule of law and for democratic regression in countries such as Hungary. Then, in his investment as President of the European Commission, he says that there can be no commitments in the rule of law. Today it says: "Let's keep on insisting. » That is to say, put down your weapons. Let's keep talking, but don't take action. All right, we know that the action that is missing is not so much in the European Commission, but in the European Council. But there, where the Portuguese Government has a seat, I ask that the Portuguese Government is waiting to initiate the Article 7 procedure. or to go directly to the Court of Justice of the European Union and clearly say that while there are Putin apprentices within the European Union, Putin will always have allies within the European Union, as he has in several political groups in the European Parliament, some of whom have allies here in the Portuguese Parliament. Now when we see that the ECB ( the European Central Bank ) raises interest rates, what are we waiting for to protect who is watching this rise in interest rates with pain in the soul, the anxiety of not knowing what it will pay to the bank in the coming months? Finally, when the President of the Commission admits today that we must move forward to a European Convention, of what we are waiting for to adopt in this Parliament the resolution presented here, calling precisely for the Portuguese Republic, the Government of Portugal, to be in favour of this European Convention within the framework of the European Council? We have only two options at this crucial time that we are living in Europe: or let others take account of the public debate, offering us speeches worthy of the 1930s — and when I say 'worthy' I should say unworthy! — as, indeed, we have heard here today, speeches without taking or putting the same as those found in the history manuals about these same 1930s, or we are talking about the future. [[That's enough!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u296	The appeal is for us to speak of the future, always and more of the future, which is the only way to prevent others from taking us to the past.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u297	Don't hit one!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u298	Mr President, the Bureau has two requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u299	Alone? One is from the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u300	One of the requests for clarification is by the PAN, by Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, and the other by the Socialist Party, by Mr Luís Capoulas Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u301	Look, it's two to zero! [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u302	Therefore, if you will allow me — thank you very much, Mr Pedro Pinto — I give the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u303	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Rui Tavares for his discussion. In fact, statements and news from the European Union this week — not only today with this package of measures, but also yesterday, with very important measures concerning the devastation of the forest area and the limitation to the trade activities resulting there — are of the greatest importance in protecting our common heritage, which is nature. With regard to today's solidarity contribution, having already introduced a NAP initiative aimed at taxing excessive profits, the European Union, in fact, replicates and approaches this initiative presented by the NAP. So, since there are only a few details here, I ask you, Mr President, if you follow the need to tax the excessive profits, with a balance sheet over the last five years, so that you can have the correct value, because 25 % can be absolutely excessive. On the other hand, also because the energy transition can and should be our greatest ally in combating war and inflation, it seems to us that it is essential that Europe has this pillar that is well based on support for both the fight against energy poverty and public transport. We understand that Portugal has to take this path and we have already given this signal to the Government to bet on public transport and on regulating maximum fuel prices.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u304	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u305	I really am concluding, Mr President. We have heard the government kick forward with the issue of the Iberian agreement. It seems to us that this is not enough, and I ask the honourable Member whether we are accompanied by this opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u306	Mr Luís Capoulas Santos, from the PS, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u307	Mr President, Mr Rui Tavares, I asked you to congratulate me on signing today's relevant speech by the President of the European Commission in Strasbourg on the state of the Union, which I had the opportunity to continue live this morning. It was indeed a matter of speech, which we will have the opportunity to discuss on 28 September, as in fact determines the law of follow-up by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Union building process. I would like to point out that today the President of the Commission has consistently reaffirmed support for Ukraine and strongly condemned the violent Russian aggression. It responded to the energy crisis and announced a set of highly relevant support to European industry, particularly for companies with higher energy consumption, together with the strengthening of wagering in renewables, wind and hydrogen, as pointed out by Mr Rui Tavares. It announced the EUR 140 billion pledge to support families and businesses and the reaffirmed strengthening of combatting climate change through the combination of the various instruments. It referred to the increased flexibility of Member States in managing public debt, which is of the greatest importance for Portugal, the proposal to launch a robust programme of support for small and medium-sized enterprises, the proposal to respond to the lack of labour throughout the European Union, placing a stake in qualification and facing the problem of emigration without a tibiasity. It has also been announced that next year will be the European Year of Qualification and it has been stressed that in the qualification the immigrants are included in what Europe needs so much and will probably have to qualify. It also referred to the establishment of new partnerships with the geography that have greater affinity with us from the point of view of the model of civilization—and emphasized in a very particular way Latin America—the bet on European reindustrialisation and in the form of producing essential raw materials, and made a very clear reaffirmation of commitment to democracy—I do not believe, Mr Rui Tavares, that they are mere empty words—and also the reaffirmation of the application of the conditionality mechanism, whenever it is justified. Therefore, Mr President, more than asking a question — I do not want or have time to advance the debate on 28 September — I would like to congratulate you once again on pointing out this fact because it is important for Parliament to sign what has happened in Strasbourg today and to give me the opportunity, with my intervention, to be able to affirm the very positive appreciation that the PS Parliamentary Group has made of the speech of the President of the European Commission. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u308	Thank you, sir. He went far beyond the time he had, but it was a pleasure to hear him. To reply, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor. I will not ask you to finish at the end of one minute, because you will have 3 minutes to answer the two questions addressed to you. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u309	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank both Mr Inês de Sousa Real and Mr Capoulas Santos for their questions and say that war, in addition to everything that brings us back to a tragic past in Europe, is also a crime against the environment. Today we are receiving news of a bombing of a dam in the city of Kryvyi Rih, the hometown of President Zelenskyy, bombing that probably was to try to provoke an environmental catastrophe, endangering the lives of people in those cities. Like the other wars of Europe — World War II, World War I, War I in Yugoslavia — wars are also environmental catastrophes. So when we react against war, we must try to get rid of this curse that has brought us where we are, to the situation of dependence on authoritarian regimes, for our dependence on fossil fuels. It is not by chance because nature has chosen to put oil all in regions where there are authoritarian regimes, because this extractivist model is very clearly linked to the concentration of power and therefore leaves us not only on an energy dependence, but on a political dependence that we urgently need to be freed. I know that we agree with this wish, as we also agree with the question you have asked me, Mrs Deputies, on the taxation of excessive profits. I follow the NAP initiative, such as the initiatives of the PCP and the Left Block, aligned with the initiatives that the Freeself has taken. What I do not realize is the lack of initiative by the political groups and the parties that gave us a majority in this Parliament, because we could already have another kind of debate today in Portugal, when it is said that there is a lack of money for pensions, for direct support for families, to have a national railway pass, making the same experience as Germany did and allowing a great effort of cohesion so that one can go from one end to another in the country with only one national rail pass, cheap, which is accessible to families. Is that money missing? Well, that money is where there are people making a lot of money with the war and which, therefore, should participate in the war effort as the common people will participate, since it has more to be able to participate. Mr. Luís Capoulas Santos, I often think that if the European law on monitoring legislation did not impose on us these'minimum Olympics', nor would we have these debates. There is a sort of back-to-back speech that swings between follow-up to the European institutions and, on the other hand, a cartoon of the European Union, and in the middle is a « I do not want to hear or speak ». And then it leaves us in such absurd things as we are already beyond the deadline, for example, of transposition of a directive on accessibility to goods and services of our citizens with disabilities—we have already'stretched' all the deadlines and there is a draft resolution of the Free on this issue—and I do not see any news from the Government. I take advantage of the fact that the Deputy Minister for Parliamentary Affairs has already been among us to request that we finally move forward in this direction. In conclusion, it is essential that Portugal is ahead of the rest of the European Union in a key element that fights inflation and increases employment and employment rates: production support. From support in textiles and shoes that are necessary for the burdens in the war of Ukraine, to make the shovels of the mills that will bring us wind energy and energy independence, there is much to do in Portugal : molds, ceramics, fine chemistry, hair, etc. Therefore, a national production plan is needed, which is always what is necessary in times of war. I hope we can discuss it here soon.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u310	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us close the point on political declarations. I remember the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, we still have two points on our agenda. The next item is the joint debate of Parliamentary Inquiry No 2 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — possible parliamentary inquiry into the credibility of the annual internal security reports submitted by the Government to the Assembly of the Republic and draft resolution No 154 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Possible parliamentary investigation committee to clarify the causes of mortality for the years 2020 and 2021. We have with us the Under-Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs and Parliamentary Affairs and the Secretary of State of the Internal Administration, which I welcome. We will therefore do the following: the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party will intervene on the two points, respectively, with the Members. Deputies Rui Paulo Sousa and Pedro dos Santos Frazão. They shall make the interventions after each other, available for the purpose of 6 minutes and 30 seconds, which shall be distributed. In the end, it closes the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, with the 2 minutes available on a regular basis. To present Parliamentary Inquiry No 2 / XV / 1. a, I give the floor immediately to Mr Rui Paulo Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u311	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: We have a Prime Minister who, every time he is questioned about crime, says that Portugal is 3. the safest country in the world. It happens that it is not only false that Portugal is 3. the safest country in the world, how cases of crime and violent crime happen in our country. We have still recently been confronted with numerous cases of violent and serious crimes, many of them practiced by organized gangs involving minors. Many of these crimes involve firearms, end up in death and generate great social alarm. on other occasions, this type of violence occurs in spaces attended by thousands of families, as was the recent case in a shopping center in Almada, where a 5-year-old was shot. at the same time, the so-called areas are multiplying, with districts where the police cannot enter, unless they resort to their special units and mobilise numerous quotas. Violence against police is also a mark of these groups, filming themselves on many occasions insulting the police, when not attacking the police. On the other hand, the number of security forces effectives has been steadily falling, with PSP currently below 20 000 police officers. In contrast to this portrait of the country, we have the Annual Report on Internal Security, which tells us, for example, that violent and serious crime has been decreasing. Now, do we have fewer cops to suppress crime and, despite that, crime decreases? Is this what the PS wants us to believe? I'm sorry, but this idea, which is published every year, that crime decreases is not consistent with the news that we get home every day. Something's not right: either the reports are being manipulated, or the numbers are being manufactured, or then it's about fake news.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u312	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u313	In the face of these events of extreme violence, we must try to understand the phenomenon, and understand it - it implies analyzing, without ideological prejudices, what groups are these, what rivalries have, what they have, what their origin, at the bottom, what leads them to live on the edge of society and to have these behaviors that call into question the social coexistence and security of all. The Portuguese have the right to have this information and it is essential for the resolution of the problem. That is why we are going to ask Parliament to do a serious investigation through a committee of inquiry into the RASIs that have been published. Without wanting to launch unfounded suspicions about any entity, it is important that its authors be identified, the methodology that has been used and its disclosure, also investigating whether or not the government has had any interference with the production of these reports,... [[Congrats from the CH.]] ... in particular what role the various Ministers of the Internal Administration have played in the production of these reports and whether or not there has been any manipulation of the information. It is not because we deny a problem that he ceases to exist, rather, is a way to go not to solve it. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u314	You now have the floor to continue the presentation of the second item on the agenda, Mr Jorge Frazão. [[Laughing.]] I'm sorry, Mr. Pedro Frazão. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u315	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : We need to know what is dying and what has exterminated the Portuguese in Portugal. We call here for the establishment of a possible committee of inquiry on excess mortality in 2020 and 2021. In 2020, DGS itself ( Directorate-General for Health ) identified six excess mortality peaks throughout the year, saying that COVID-19 only explained two. Mr Bastonário of the Medical Order said that 2020 was a "black year", I quote, in access to health care, but the worst was yet to come. It was also shown that there were more than 14 % deaths compared to the average of the previous six years, but that COVID-19 would have been only the fourth most frequent cause of death, with only 5, 9 % of all deaths. In 2020 there were also more than 1600 deaths than expected by cardiovascular diseases. Overall, the European Union also recorded excess mortality peaks, but only between 20 % and 40 %, while the mortality peak in Portugal reached 60 %, 5 %. More serious than that is that this situation has deepened and continues to deepen in 2022. For 100 years there had been no record of 10,000 deaths per month, and this happened in the first seven months of this year of 2022. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, 2020 and 2021 were two years—reminisce—in which the Government and the President of the Republic asked us to stay at home, to open up our freedom to save lives and to save the SNS (National Health Service ). People have done what the government has said and have stayed home. The government has asked us all to vaccinate, and we have all to vaccinate. The Portuguese have fulfilled everything they were asked to do, sometimes even with extreme passivity, I say. And, in fact, you saved yourself what, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen? In fact, much more people have died and we have less health care right now. After all that has been asked of us, it is time for the government to respond to the Portuguese. Or does the government not care about the SNS victims or about the death of the Portuguese people? I want to make a separate part here and say that the government does not really care about the death of the Portuguese, as it does not care about Luís Dias, who is in the galleries. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Louis Dias is a farmer injured by the State, who is on the seventh day of his third hunger strike in less than a year, and no one has been talking to him yet, neither the social communication, nor the government, nor the Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. Have shame! The truth is that, for many Portuguese, propaganda phrases such as «will be all right» or « nobody stays behind» have been lied to. After all, we passed from the best SNS in the world to unresilient health professional terms. You find it, ladies. PS members, that the collapse of health is the fault of doctors and nurses? Do you think they're actually boycotting the government and jeopardizing the health of Portuguese people in a concerted cabal against the PS and the government? It is that, if that is the level of hallucination they have reached, it seems that the Left Block has already managed to legalize drugs and I had not yet realized anything. Therefore, Portuguese have the right to know why they are dying in Portugal. It is up to Parliament to examine the acts of the Government, and parliamentary committees of inquiry are the most appropriate instrument for this purpose. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u316	Thank you very much, Mr Pedro Frazão, and I apologize to you for my recent mistake. The Bureau registered Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, from the Left Block, to request clarification. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u317	Mr President, Mr President, you have a few seconds to answer, but I thank you until the answer is 'yes' or 'no', because that is a very direct question to which I will ask you. There is a movement on social networks that indicates and suggests that this peak of mortality comes from vaccination against COVID-19, and I ask you very directly if Mr. Deputy, if the Arrival considers that this peak of mortality comes from vaccination against COVID-19. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u318	Mr Frazão has the floor to answer, if that is your intention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u319	Mr President, I see that you have managed to inspire and expire, even looking at our parliamentary group, which is much bigger than yours. I will reply to you, saying that this parliamentary group does not call for committees of inquiry with any prejudice about what is going to be discussed there. We have no ideological prejudice, unlike your bench. [[Congrats from the CH.]] What we want is to call Parliament experts, so they can answer home, for the Portuguese, what the hell it is that you're killing the Portuguese. This cannot be: 2020, 2021 and now 2022 are years in which the mortality rate is enormous, in addition to non-VOC-related deaths, and this has to be clarified. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u320	Let's move on to the interventions now. The Bureau only registered the registration of the Liberal Initiative. In fact, there are two Members who are going to intervene. Since we only have two inscriptions, I'm trying to give the word... [[Pause.]] I'm sorry, what I've recorded is the registration of Members Patrícia Gilvaz and Joana Cordeiro. Mrs. Patrícia Gilvaz has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u321	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Internal security, another area in which the Socialist Party exhibits its incompetence. We could further develop here a paper of de-investment and captivating policies that, over the past seven years, have resulted in closed teams, operational discontent, poor material conditions, obsolete equipment and a growing feeling of insecurity that PS is trying to hide, because it knows that social tensions are the result of its policies of impoverishment. It would also be possible to mention the number of police officers who have fallen, year after year, and whose compensation plans have failed successively. Only in a country where really something is not right is that it would be possible to imagine moving forward to a possible inquiry committee because of the credibility of the Annual Internal Security Reports submitted by the Government to the Assembly of the Republic. These reports should be the faithful portrait of the current state of the country with regard to crime, in order to make possible a continuous comparison in time that allows a proper assessment and discussion of developments in internal security. They should be, but they're not. And why? Because with PS there is always a « but». The report is prepared with complete freedom by the Secretary-General of the Internal Security System, who is directly dependent on the Prime Minister and can choose the methodology, data and compilation of this mandatory presentation document to the Assembly of the Republic. Therefore, it seems legitimate to us to think that this Parliament, as a government body of scrutiny, should be fully aware of the criteria that are used for the compilation and elaboration of RASI. I know that Mr. Prime Minister even regrets when he hears the word 'crutinium'. So far, the PS has been able to prevent hearings, but they have to get used to the fact that while the Liberal Initiative is present in this Parliament, your absolute majority will not be a majority of the « I want, I can and I command ». [[Applause from the IL.]] The time has come for the Government to report to Parliament on the implementation of the RASI by making available the internal data available on the preparation of this document. Thus, as this Government has shown several times that the Portuguese cannot rely on what it says, and given the exceptional importance that RASI assumes for the national and international confidence of the Portuguese State, we will vote in favour of the realization of this possible commission of inquiry.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u322	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u323	We need our rulers to have a bit of decency to realize that these are their policies that are taking this country to a bottomless hole. As far as it depends on the Liberal Initiative, RASI will no longer be a PS propaganda document. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[Meanwhile, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u324	For an intervention, you have the floor on behalf of the Left Block, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u325	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing a point with several committees of inquiry proposed by the Arrival — more we would, more we would debate — but, in fact, they are not interested in anything, because we realize in the interventions that a new committee of inquiry on agriculture has even been invented, now grafted, at the time of autumn, « go there, it may be that it will bear some fruit, now at the turn of the year». One realizes that none of them are for anything but political chicana.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u326	Respect people!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u327	Does anyone think the Earth is round? Let us then, on behalf of the opening up of the dialogue, make a committee of inquiry. Is the sky blue? Someone thinks he's pink and then we're going to do an inquiry committee. [[CH protests.]] Do we live in a computer simulation? Well, we're not sure, we're doing an investigation committee. It's enough to talk to your target audience, getting more and more fucked up, getting smaller and smaller,... [[CH protests.]] ...so you can't say anything else. See this curiosity about impunity: we will do an inquiry committee to see the impunity that exists and that is not seen in RASI. Now, there is one Member who, apparently, was a victim of violence at the meeting of his parliamentary group,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u328	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u329	...no one told the police, there was no investigation, it was not denied, but, after all, judging by news from the newspapers... [[CH protests.]] Free yourself, Mr Mithá Ribeiro! Get free, get out of the way! As I said, judging by the news, should be taken seriously. A committee of inquiry — care, Liberal Initiative — is open, and the arrival, soon, will go for such a popular rally that the Liberal Initiative has done. Wasn't there a peak of mortality there, too? Or for the campaign dinners of the Arrival, without any kind of social distance, was there not a peak of mortality for that either? Well, it's an anecdotes of a parliamentary group that talks to a niche of science negationists. Negancyists!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u330	The Left Block has gone from 19 to 5 Members!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u331	That is why we see committees of inquiry and see more. See, they do not take themselves seriously, because otherwise they would never accept that we at the same point were discussing various committees of inquiry. [[CH protests.]] It is a parliamentary group anecdotes and, therefore, as regards anecdotes, we will vote against it. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u332	Mr Paulo Marques of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u333	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs Minister, Dear colleagues: In fact, it is true that there is a great mix here and I will only focus on the initiative of the Arrival on mortality studies. On 9 July, a draft resolution of the Arrival was introduced which recommended the setting up of a possible committee to classify, or clarify, the causes of mortality for the years 2020 and 2021. A few days ago, on 20 July, he decided to change this initiative and wanted to set up a committee of inquiry and, therefore, he stopped recommending that he wanted to set up a committee of inquiry for the same purpose. The strange thing is that, in order to substantiate the need for this committee to be set up, the arrival supports it in data made available by DGS, in statements by Mr Bastonário and news from newspapers.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u334	Sir, you're wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u335	I'm not wrong! It's going to the site! In addition, he questioned himself and made a tremendous inquiry on the matter, which said: 'How can Parliament remain silent? Do not keep on seeking. ” Deep down, deep down, we know that he didn't want it — he doesn't want it! — know the causes of mortality in this period.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u336	The PS doesn't want to! The PS has resigned the Minister and now puts everything under the carpet!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u337	What the Arrival wants, but it will not succeed, is to continue its populist drift, stimulating doubts and fears among people, with the aim, long ago, of discrediting the institutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u338	Exactly! All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u339	If you wanted to really know the causes, you would be here to appeal to the scientific community to continue to examine itself, as you have already begun to examine these causes, to study them more thoroughly and more thoroughly, mobilising these and other entities, in order to be able to understand what has happened, in addition to the entities that have this responsibility, namely the Directorate-General for Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u340	The scientific community says DGS does not give the data!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u341	Let me talk! I heard him very carefully! He said that Parliament was silent on the matter. Well, that doesn't correspond at least to the truth, and we know it. I would like to remind you that, during the past month of July, a few days ago, six entities, chaired by Mr António Maló de Abreu, have been heard on this matter, in the Health Committee of the Assembly of the Republic. I repeat, six entities were heard on the subject: the Order of Doctors on July 13th; the Ministry of Health on July 14th; the European Association of Perinatal Medicine on July 15th; the National Institute of Health Doctor Ricardo Jorge; the National Institute of Statistics; and the Directorate-General for Health on July 19th.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u342	I know, I was there!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u343	Of all we have heard — of course, the representative of the Arrival will also have heard, because it is part of the Commission — we can say that all speakers have advised the necessary caution on the approach to the subject and the results already known and that these studies should continue to be carried out by experts, the academy and the responsible public bodies. That is, we need time, indicators and methodologies consensualized by the scientific community and not to base our interpretation of what may have happened in beliefs, as curiously VV. Ex.as points out in the statement of your initiative, which I quote: « The Doctors' Order Governor Miguel Guimarães believes that there is an obvious explanation for these data». It's written. And I ask, do you believe? Oh, my God! The obvious explanation? Oh, my God! But now we interpret what happened to beliefs? Oh, my God! [[Protests by CH Member Pedro dos Santos Frazão.]] This doesn't go there with beliefs. We must continue the serious, dedicated, credible study with relevant data in quantity and quality and with consensualized methodologies. That's what we have to do! He could have made references, which also exist in the newspapers he consulted, to the alerts that researchers who have already conducted preliminary studies do, when they say that « we should continue to study the subject », that « estimates have been published », that « data are preliminary », that « there is inherent uncertainty », and that « at this time it is too early to know what has happened », and that « we should continue to analyze and study the causes of mortality ». Finally, Mr President, I would like to call on the scientific community to continue to study what has happened, to assess the causes, to develop methodologies and programmes, so that, in situations similar to those which, unfortunately, Portugal and the world have lived during the years 2020 and 2021, we may be better prepared to deal with the direct and indirect effects of these situations. I do not understand how a committee of inquiry can help understand what has happened, without the studies carried out, or assist scientists in doing their work, as long as they feel necessary. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u344	It is better to say 'we don't want to know'! Look, it was easier!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u345	For an intervention, Mr André Coelho Lima, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u346	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is not easy to keep a debate with completely different subjects, but we will try to focus the debate on what has been proposed here, which are, in fact, two different proposals for parliamentary committees of inquiry.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u347	Don't take it seriously, they don't either!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u348	It is my duty to speak to me about the committee proposal which seeks to assess the credibility of the issues of the Annual Internal Security Report, which are delivered by the Government to the Assembly of the Republic. Does the Commission propose a parliamentary committee of inquiry for this purpose? Among other things, these are basically the following: « There is manipulation of the results presented in RASI, it is a means of achieving an end, that of creating a sustained image of Portugal as a safe country(...) », « (...) but it is still an illusion». Further, the following can be read in the Reach initiative: “It is difficult to accept that the numbers reported are entirely true. And it is difficult because the reality that the news conveys in nothing is codated with the horn that Portugal is 3. the safest country in the world(...). The reality is quite different from this mythical classification, just paying attention to the news that, every day, we are reporting new cases of violence", and then the news is listed, all year of 2022. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the case! A parliamentary committee of inquiry must be set up on the basis of concrete and objective grounds. [[CH Member's protests Filipe Melo.]] A parliamentary committee of inquiry is a serious parliamentary instrument and not to be used in a light manner. And I am not the one who says so, it is the Legal Regime of Parliamentary Investigations that the law even allows it to be used once a year, if it is required by a fifth of the Members, which does not apply to parliamentary groups. So I said this, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, of course it is always important to improve or refine the Annual Internal Security Report. The PSD is available to improve it and I want to recall that, when RASI was discussed here in July, it was the PSD the only party that has made concrete contributions to the instrument we are discussing here. No other party did! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u349	We weren't here!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u350	In July, the last, this July! The truth is that here there are even proposals that are changed, in which the substance completely changes the shape. They speak of the importance of victimization investigations. We agree. They speak of the importance of consistency and agreement between what is in the catalogue of the Criminal Code — I think, however, that it is in the Code of Criminal Procedure — and in the catalogue of violent and serious crime, in the RASI. That's right. But for all of this, we have parliamentary instruments, we do not need to shake the hands of the parliamentary committee of inquiry. Why does it use a parliamentary committee when it is not a suitable means for the clarifications it intends to obtain? Why is the Supreme Council of Internal Security and all the criminal police involved and who, before it is presented here, appreciate the Annual Internal Security Report and the work of the Secretary-General? Why is all this called into question, discrediting confidence in politics and its agents? For a very simple reason: because that's what you want! He wants to help discredit the institutions, help undermine confidence in the system and contribute to having the complaint capital in this area, making his usual focus. For that, who does not contribute, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's the PSD. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests of CH Deputies.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u351	For an intervention on behalf of the IL, Mrs Joana Cordeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u352	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Liberal Initiative is quite concerned about the data coming from the public on mortality. As we have already had the opportunity to say, it seems clear to us that this increase in mortality we have been witnessing is largely due to the closure of the SNS, decreed by the government during the pandemic, when the SNS virtually only responded to patients with COVID-19, leaving behind all other patients. These other patients, non-COVID patients, have no longer had access to consultations, examinations, diagnoses, treatments or surgeries. Between March 2020 and February 2021, and in the face of the homologous period, primary health care, fewer than 13 million presence contacts were held; in hospital care, less than 1 million and a half external consultations were held and less than 176 000 surgeries were performed; and, in relation to complementary means of diagnosis and therapy, less than 30 million acts were performed. And many were alerts from several entities about this lack of timely access to health care. Unfortunately, they were all ignored. We remember that Mr. Professor Julian Perelman, of the National School of Public Health, concluded that social inequalities are determinants of the burden of disease and, consequently, of mortality. This is because, and I quote, «who did not have a plan B (...), probably arrived later in health care». Mrs. Members, we cannot resign from the responsibility to ascertain whether the Government has taken the right measures to minimize these inequalities and the impact that may have on excess mortality. The data that have come to the public should concern us all, even because we do not know what is yet to come. Again, I recall the warning that several oncology specialists have made: only in four or five years will we realize the real impact of the lack of access of cancer patients to timely health care. And in oncology, we all know what that means. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we agree that this Parliament cannot remain silent. The causes of this excess mortality must be ascertained and known. We want to know whether the government has received warnings that may have been devalued, whether it has received recommendations that it may have ignored or whether it has received data that may have neglected. Yeah, because that's not unpublished. For example, in the DGS report on maternal mortality in 2017 and 2018, often requested and which was finally known,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u353	Two and a half years late!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u354	... there is a recommendation to provide obstetric services with more means. It is enough to have seen television in recent times to realize that this recommendation has been ignored. Therefore, if the Government and the guardians have not yet given us answers, this Parliament must continue to do what it can to try to find them. We know that the PS has aversion to scrutiny and transparency, preferring, instead of rigor, propaganda rhetoric and word games, but the Liberal Initiative will always be here to monitor and examine. And we do not resign from this function, nor from that responsibility. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u355	For an intervention on behalf of the NAP, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u356	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Deputies: The strategy that arrives adds to the story of Pedro and the Lobo. It is that, in fact, so many times they shout that there comes the wolf that one day even arrives and no one believes. in this case, these two Committee of Inquiry proposals are completely different. If, on the one hand, on the subject of health, there is a fundamental need for scrutiny and clarification of what was to be done by the Government, on the other hand, in the case of RASI, it is with some misunderstanding that we have seen a committee of inquiry which questions the suitability of entities that you spend your life claiming to defend. In addition, I cannot but wonder whether you actually read the reports. It is because, as Mr Coelho Lima has already said, we do not do an inquiry committee based on news. Looking at RASI, it has very clear facts about crime, the type of crime and even the type of profile of the attackers themselves. I would also like to mention a concern expressed in RASI, which is related to the growth of the extreme right in our country. I quote the Report itself : « (...) the strategy of exploitation of the online pandemic environment, having disseminated propaganda, misinformation and conspiracy theories(...) in order to empolate an anti-system narrative in civil society. This is well present, not only in this committee, but also in the political statements that you have made today. More: we are here with a policy of fear, insecurity, conspiracy theories have nothing innovative and history, unfortunately, explains it well. It happened in the time of the New State and, with that, the NAP will not compact. Indeed, the Government and the Socialist Party, which has the majority, have the duty to ensure that society is informed... [[Society is informed!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u357	... and that the opposition has access to information, which does not happen in this narrative. I'm saying again that it's the story of Peter and the Lobo and, the day the wolf gets there, no one will believe in the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u358	Mr Paulo Araújo Correia, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u359	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Secretary of State : We all understand the reason for this debate, this topic of RASI that we are discussing today. It is only and only because reality insists on countering the political propaganda of the party arrives.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u360	Oh, it's propaganda, it's propaganda!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u361	The PS forgets!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u362	The disillusionment of this party with the reality of the country translated into RASI numbers is of such order that they do not hesitate or inhibit to question the brightness, dedication and zeal of the men and women of the criminal police bodies, who are responsible for sending the RASI data. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]] Take it easy, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm still starting. The reality of the successive RASI numbers is that, over the last 15 years, Portugal has seen, in a sustained way, the crime numbers be reduced, which means, in concrete terms, that Portugal is of the safest and peaceful countries in the world, as it is, in fact, the result of the various international rankings that are taking place on this subject, as is the case of the Global Peace Index of 2022, which places Portugal as the 6th. the safest country in the world between 163 independent States and territories. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u363	Go to Avantes or Monforte!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u364	And, unlike the alleged by the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival on its initiative, there has been a gradual rise in Portugal's ranking in this ranking. [[Repeals of CH Deputies.]] Allow me to remind you, Mrs. Deputies, of which, still in 2014, Portugal occupied 18. the place in this ranking. He's gone up and not down! It is therefore unthinkable that the significant steps taken by Portugal in recent years in the field of security have allowed the reduction of crime and, consequently, the gradual and consolidated rise in this ranking. And so it is, sirs. Members, because the internal security policy of successive governments of the Republic is effective and adequate, but also thanks to the work and service of the men and women who make up the security forces, whose work is VV. They call into question with your initiative. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This feeling and certainty of security, that the arrival insists on questioning, is very relevant to our country, either from the point of view of social cohesion or from the point of view of our ability to attract investment — which generates jobs — either in terms of the full realization of our society and the full realization of the functions of State sovereignty. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, contrary to what has been suggested in your initiative, without ever worrying about densifying the same with concrete facts and data, there is no distortion of numbers to paint a pink country in terms of internal security. [[CH protests.]] And not even the Government of the Republic, depending on the positive data and the positive historical context that I just described, has merely been satisfied. In fact, the Government recognises as the result of the 2021 RASI itself, that there are still remaining challenges, that there are still challenges to be overcome and that there are new realities that deserve special attention, such as the increase in youth crime and group crime by 7.3% and 7.7% respectively. This recognition is reflected in concrete actions by the Government of the Socialist Party : in the agileization of the Integrated Urban Security Strategy 2022 - 2026, in the constitution of the Integrated Analysis Commission for Juvenile Crime and Violent Crime and in the relaunching and strengthening of the Safe School programmes and local security contracts, which are coming to strengthen the police and the police of proximity. At the same time, the Government is also working on the attractiveness of the performance of functions in the security forces, strengthening and improving their working conditions. We are talking about the newly approved investment of EUR 607 million — EUR 607 million! — in the infrastructure and equipment of the security forces with EUR 76 million of this programme to be invested in as early as 2022, in an investment to be extended to 2026. This investment adds to the admission of 2600 new elements in the Public Security Police and the Republican National Guard during this year of 2022. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the 2021 Annual Internal Security Report, far from machining internal security numbers in our country, remains an excellent tool to measure the state of the internal security art in our country, year after year, and to adjust internal security policies, if necessary. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, of the obviously unfounded initiative of the Arrival, only the insinuations and accusations remain based on news of newspaper and conspiracy theories, deprived of any factual support and that at nothing contribute to the strengthening of our country's internal security. The disappointment of the party comes with data from successive internal security reports, since these data testify to the success of our state of social law, the success of our Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and our criminal policy, thus withdrawing the essential food to populism and demagogy that characterizes the position of arrive in the field of internal security. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u365	The honourable Member has to conclude, and the honourable Members. Members must let the speaker finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u366	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I end this speech by using a phrase that was vulgarized by the leader of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, André Ventura, and which today really applies as a glove: « They should be here to apologize. Do not keep on seeking. ” They should be here to apologize to the women and men who make up the security forces and whose work today they have disrespected your initiative. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u367	For an intervention on behalf of the Free Party, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u368	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Truely, the credibility of this request for an inquiry into the credibility of the Annual Internal Security Report took a shot on the air carrier even before the debate began, when Mr. Fernando Negrão, who was the director of the Judicial Police, twice the Minister, including the Justice, and twice the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees of this Parliament, said on a fee that RASI numbers are reliable and that in more than 10 years there has never been complaints of any police force regarding the handling of these numbers. [[There, there! We have a complaint here!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u369	It is curious that, for example, in a crime of police violence—because it is also a crime, you know? — a parliamentary group says it always believes in the police, but not when the police send to RASI the data we have in RASI. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u370	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u371	I mean, just believe in what it does. Then, in another survey, which mixes "buddy garlic" in this discussion, he wants to ask the experts why there is more mortality. But why do they ask the specialists, if you only need to answer the experts who agree with you? Do you want to propose, then, that we do a committee of inquiry to see if the water is even boiling at 100 oC? [[CH protests.]] Attention, Dear colleagues of the Liberal Initiative, because whoever falls into the story of the vicar of negationism, who adds to populism more half populism, ends by doing what these requests of inquiry want: to undermine not the credibility of RASI itself, but social and collective confidence in the facts, experts, data and independent institutions that collect them. And that is the way to have a breakdown of the democratic system and to happen what they wanted to do here today, which is to focus everything on spying accusations on an ethnic group. Perhaps, what they should explain is the very incentive to violence that they did, for example, in the Palace of Bethlehem, when they went there, saying that there would be violence in the Assembly of the Republic. Then they do not clarify the various reports of violence within your parliamentary group, which have never been denied and that they agree to clarify here. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u372	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u373	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mortality rates are extremely important indicators, because they tell us how healthy our population is. It is therefore a very serious matter. What is not serious is the attitude of Enough to instrument these values and rates, because it does not resist the populist impulses it has.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u374	How is that possible? How is it possible to defend the war in Ukraine? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u375	In fact, what we have in mind is a situation that we cannot devalue. These rates and indicators are needed to diagnose and evaluate what needs to be done to give better health to our population. So when we get here with this initiative, we know what's behind it. First of all, it wants to realize, yes, the extermination of the SNS, because that's what I had in the program and now it's hidden. He clearly stated that he wanted the progressive end of the SNS and that the State should not have any public service. We are not forgotten and the Portuguese know that! [[PCP applause.]] [[CH protests.]] And then he wants to feed something that's very dangerous. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very dangerous to accept the destructive speech of the SNS and it is this destructive speech that you want to make: to make the SNS believe it doesn't serve and so it's better another option. Don't! That's not the way. The way is to value the National Health Service with more professionals, with more equipment, with more health centers and hospitals that respond to the needs of our population. That is why we have to say: what will the government do? Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, what does the government want to do about the measures that are necessary and necessary? It's not ending the SNS. Is the PS available to save the SNS or not? Is the PS available or not to ensure Portuguese access to the consultations, examinations and treatments they need? If so, what is needed? To see if you enter, once and for all, in your head: the need for more health professionals, with decent careers and with working conditions. This is what is necessary. The PCP will not abandon and will not fail in the intransigent defense of the SNS, in what has to do with access, in what has to do with the conditions of health professionals and the conditions of the SNS to provide care. [[PCP applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u376	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Rui Cristina has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u377	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The increase in mortality in Portugal over the last three years is extremely worrying. In 2020, 123 000 deaths were recorded and in 2021, close to 125 000, an increase of 12 % compared to the annual average of 110 000 deaths recorded from 2015 to 2019. Only in the first seven months of this year, the deaths above the expected exceeded 7500. This summer, Portugal was the European country with higher mortality than the average of 2015 - 2019, with more than 24 % deaths in June and more than 30 % in July. In a prominent April 2021, the INE signalled the tremendous anomaly that has occurred in Portugal since 2020. Therefore, the INE revealed that only in the first year of the pandemic, between March 2020 and February 2021, total mortality rose by about 21 %—more 23 000 deaths than the average of the previous five years. This body concluded that in the same period, in non-COVID mortality, there was an excess of 7000 deaths in our country. Repeat, 7000 deaths more than were caused by the pandemic. In view of this reality, the question arises: what have the national authorities done to clarify the causes of the increase in mortality that has been occurring in our country for three years? The explanations so far ahead are far from what needs to be clarified. For DGS, it seems that the conditions of health care, particularly by the SNS, had little or nothing to do with the excessive increase in mortality in our country. The DGS report on general mortality and by large groups of causes of 2020 has the ambition of a purely meteorological bulletin, remaining by the heat waves and cold waves as the only causes for increased mortality. How is it possible not to relate the excess mortality of the last three years to the lower access of patients to health care? For the Social Democratic Party, it is not acceptable to ignore this reality and therefore we want to clarify its causes. The Doctors' Board of Directors attributed the enormous increase in non-COVID mortality in 2020 to the fact that there have been « millions of consultations and complementary diagnostic examinations to be carried out ». Recent studies on access to health in pandemic times have concluded that SNS activity was insufficient to recover what was to be done during the pandemic. This is what happened to surgeries, consultations, follow-up of chronic diseases and screenings. This is the case with surgeries, where the increase of 2021 is far from compensating for the breakdown of more than 125 000 surgeries, verified in 2020, or for the medical consultations present in health centres, which between 2019 and 2021 recorded a reduction in the order of 30 %. There was also a reduction in the monitoring of chronic diseases such as diabetes, heart failure and hypertension. The breakdown in screenings, especially in the case of oncological diseases, makes us afraid that the great problem still comes there, due to the worsening of oncological diseases not diagnosed during the pandemic.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u378	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u379	This is the perception of the PSD, based on the positions expressed by those who were on the front line of the pandemic fight and who witnessed the retreat of the SNS care delivery in other areas. This is also the perception of Portuguese: 7 in every 10 Portuguese understand that the state's current investment in health is insufficient.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u380	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u381	The Portuguese complain about the waiting times to mark a consultation and the difficulty in contacting health centres. And, highlighting the advantage of having family doctors, they probably remember the promise made by the socialist government in 2018 by more family doctors. In 2022, there are more users without a family doctor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u382	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u383	In the PSD we have always considered an imperative - and I myself have said it here for months - that the causes of this increase in mortality are studied, because the Portuguese can not be answered. The Ministry of Health, as we know, announced a month ago that will carry out an in-depth study on the increase in mortality in recent years, in order to clarify the main causes of deaths in Portuguese. [[Protests from PS Eurico Brilliant Dias and Maria Antonio de Almeida Santos.]] We therefore consider that this is the time of the new Minister of Health to fulfil what his predecessor promised, clearing up the causes of the excess mortality that has so far occurred. If you don't, we'll be here to demand that this survey be carried out. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u384	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u385	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : On the proposal for a committee of inquiry to the credibility of the Annual Internal Security Report, it demonstrates an inherent mistrust with which the CFP does not coincide. The directions of the different security forces and services provide data on the basis of which the RASIs are then drawn up and, in fact, we cannot follow a general mistrust with these documents. Yes, there is an objective, quantitative part, the numbers, and then a more qualitative component, which is the reading of these RASI data. We can believe that RASI should introduce new elements, other approaches, we can of course do all this, but in order to improve the preparation of RASI, there is no need for a committee of inquiry, as is clear. To that end, it is sufficient to develop work, in particular by promoting the hearings of those responsible, the speakers, in committee.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u386	It was plunged by the PS, as you know!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u387	But, in fact—and this is the bottom line—the arrival would only be pleased with RASI if this account of an evolution of crime compatible with its speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u388	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u389	I would only be happy when the RASI of this reasonableness to a political discourse that is based, as we know well, on the instigation of fear. What we can conclude is that what we need is not a committee of inquiry, what we desperately need is that the data of crime give you some credibility. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u390	Desperate are you!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u391	In order to speak on behalf of the Government, the Secretary of State of the Internal Administration, Isabel Oneto.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u392	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In July this year, just over two months ago, this Parliament discussed the 2021 Annual Internal Security Report. For the mere reason that there has been news of the events of 2022, I believe that they are questioning the credibility of the 2021 report. Well, what is at stake is, of course, not the credibility of security forces and services, which I take advantage of to honor, because they keep us at low levels of crime and also make us feel secure.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u393	But they want it to be the increase in wages!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u394	And I say this based on statistical data made by credible entities. It is not because of the mere fact that reality is not the one that the proposing party wants it to be changed. In fact, as they have mentioned, it is not because of not talking about a problem that he does not exist, but it is not because a party raises a problem that he necessarily does. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u395	What exists is indeed the credibility of the various institutions, the various criminal police bodies contributing to the report. As mentioned here, the Supreme Council of Internal Security examines the numbers, the data here are, may be and have been debated. But no one, during the RASI debate, questioned their credibility or the addiction of their data. What's changed these two months? He'll be able to say what's changed in the last two months. And now, I take it to say that the Liberal Initiative must have agreed on the problem attached to arriving, because, suddenly, it also calls into question the credibility of what has never been called into question, based only on news from newspapers regarding the events of 2021.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u396	Wakeing up next to arriving is always a bad sign!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u397	Since the crime numbers that have been subsequently revealed by the Annual Internal Security Report cannot be tackled, what is now being done is to speak in the sense of insecurity. That is to say, it is not the objective security that is at stake, it is the feeling of security, so it now enters the political discourse. I wanted to draw attention to data previously published regarding a statistical study conducted by the University Nova de Lisboa, commissioned by the City Council of Lisbon. In 2010 less than 8% of the population felt safe. In the last report, 80 % of the people in Lisbon feel safe. The feeling of security increased exponentially from 2000 to 2019. [[CH protests.]] However, in order to question the credibility of the Republican National Guard, the Public Security Police, the Judicial Police, the Tax Authority, a set of criminal police bodies, what we would like to say as a government is that, fortunately, this Assembly of the Republic is not reached in its credibility, because it will certainly reject the initiative of the Arrival, and this credibility only reaches the proposing party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u398	Mr. Secretary of State, if I may, I would like to congratulate you, because I believe this is your birthday today. To close the debate, Mr Pedro Pinto has the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u399	Mr President, Madam Minister — who is not now present — Mrs Secretary of State, Members: I would like to congratulate the Secretary of State, but I am unable. [[Rice from PS and PSD Members.]] I am not able, because the Secretary of State wanted here to pay tribute to the security forces, those men who are up there in the galleries, but it is no tribute they need, it is working conditions — dormitories, higher risk allowance and better conditions to go to the police. That's what they need, not homages and empty words! [[Congrats from the CH.]] I also want to apologize to the Portuguese. To apologize for Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, who spoke of everything but mortality and RASI, preferring personal attacks. We know that even counsel Mamadou Ba calls the police. We know that the Left Block doesn't like the police, or the extreme left. [[Protests from BE Pedro Filipe Soares.]] But with us, sir, with us they will not pass! [[Protests from the PCP, BE and PS MP Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] We also learned that Mr André Coelho Lima and the PSD do not believe in news, newspapers or television. Everything that happens there, nothing's true, that's all fiction. So the journalists who are there are all liars. Sorry! Curious, too, was the fact that the PSD has discovered today that the security forces are experiencing difficulties. Welcome to the debate, PSD, because you were missing and now you are here in this debate about the security forces! [[Congrats from the CH.]] The two committees of inquiry that we have brought to this House will probably be plunged by the absolute majority of the Socialist Party. Everything's fine! Mortality is increasing, there is insecurity, the number of gangs has increased, but everything will be fine! the PS doesn't care to know the truth. This happens here, as in the committees, where we want to know what has failed, for example, in the fires of the Serra da Estrela and Covilhã Natural Park. The PS leads because it doesn't care to know the truth. All that might bring into question any ruler of this majority, vulgar « absolute tyranny», is, at first, plummeted. to PS does not care that Portuguese understand why there was an excess mortality in 2022 and that the country exceeded the 10,000 deaths per month, this does not matter. But do you know why? Because we have a National Deficit Health Service and you expect for more than a year to consult serious diseases. With regard to RASI, we clearly doubt its numbers, we have to doubt it. For example, in the numbers relating to the effective police, RASI says one thing and in the social balance sheet of the PSP says another. After all, what's the correct number of effectives? [[Congrats from the CH.]] If everything is done well, what is the problem of discussing the data in a committee of inquiry and knowing the details of RASI? Violence increases daily, people feel it on the street and through social communication. The PS prefers to hide, step aside, but we don't. Assaults to security forces occur at a daily rate, and on average six police officers have been assaulted per day. Images like this,... The speaker displayed an image. ... Agent Nanda Santos, the victim of barbaric assaults on duty, should shame us all. Agent Nanda Santos was assaulted! What are you guys doing? Ladies and gentlemen, do you have anything to say? Nothing! Quiet! Everything's fine! [[On your feet, applause from the CH.]] Do you know what this image says? « Who protects us? » — This is what a PSP agent says in Lisbon. They are certainly not the Members of the Socialist Party or the Members of the Social Democratic Party. Either to figure out why this excessive mortality, whether RASI is true or not, we do not need reports or observatories. We need answers to questions and solutions, which the PS does not want to allow, by chuming these two committees of inquiry. For our part, we will not be silenced, nor will we give up! [[On your feet, applause from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u400	We thus conclude the second item on our agenda, now moving to the third point, which is the general assessment of the Bill No 28 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Restructuring the Single Contact Point for International Police Cooperation. To submit the bill, you have the floor of Ms. Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs, Ana Catarina Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u401	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government today proposes to Parliament the integration of the Europol National Unit ( European Union Agency for Law Enforcement Cooperation ) and the Interpol National Office ( The International Criminal Police Organization ) into the Single Contact Point for International Police Cooperation. Today, more than ever, the exchange of information between police and judicial authorities in the Member States is important. Today, more than ever, it is important not only to combat serious and organized crime, but also to commit minor offences, which are committed on a large scale by transnational criminal groups or individual criminals operating in various countries. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the prevention and detection of criminal offences and the conduct of criminal investigations today impose extensive and intense cooperation between police forces, security services and criminal police bodies between the various Member States. Today, more than ever, looking only at the international context, it is absolutely essential to ensure the European area of internal security, through cooperation and joint action to address the growing transnational risks and threats. It is by recognizing this reality and the imperative need for last-generation police cooperation that the Government implements the recommendation of the European Commission to set up a Single Contact Point, a European information exchange model. This « single counter », in accordance with the European guidelines, brings together under the same management structure and in the same physical space the different national offices or relevant contact points: the SIRENE National Office ( Supplementary Information Request at the National Entries ), the National Office of Interpol, the National Unit of Europol, the coordination of national and foreign liaison officers, the coordination of the Police and Customs Cooperation Centres and the contact points arising from the so-called Prüm Decisions, operating every day, 24 hours a day. In the 2003 Schengen evaluations, Mrs and Mrs. Members, and again in 2010, Portugal was warned that it had not created a Single Point of Contact. That is why, in 2017, the Government, through decree-law, created the Single Contact Point for International Police Cooperation, in dependence and under the coordination of the Secretary-General of the Internal Security System. Under the law, it is up to the Secretary-General of the Internal Security System to develop action plans and strategies for the European area of freedom, security and justice which involve joint action by security forces and services. But it is also up to the Secretary-General of the Internal Security System to ensure the access of entities that are part of the Internal Security System, according to their needs and competences, to mechanisms for international police cooperation through different national contact points. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I remember that it was in 2017, as a result of the third Schengen evaluation, that Portugal was again the subject of a recommendation on the need to complete the process of establishing the Single Contact Point, through the integration of the national offices of Europol and Interpol. In 2021, the SIRENE National Office was integrated into the Single Point of Contact, and today what we propose is the completion and consolidation of the structure planned for the Single Point of Contact, effectively integrating the National Unit of Europol and the National Office of Interpol. After all, what are Europol's National Unit and Interpol's National Office? I think it is worth remembering, especially so that we can avoid misconceptions, that these structures are multilateral channels of international cooperation, at the service of the competent authorities of the Member States, not being police units, but rather exchange of information of a police and judicial nature, not promoting criminal investigations. Since 2008 the law confers criminal investigation powers on GNR and PSP, not being the sole entity with such competences and being able by the Attorney General of the Republic to determine the investigation of a crime to any criminal police body. Like the Judicial Police, GNR and PSP also currently have liaison officers and representatives at Europol and Interpol headquarters. This is precisely the result of the powers of the criminal police and research body that the GNR and the PSP have under the Criminal Investigation Organization Act. It becomes even more evident, therefore, the need to implement the integration of the National Unit of Europol and the National Office of Interpol into the Single Point of Contact, with undeniable advantages for the services and security forces as well as their efficiency. It is therefore necessary to respect the multi-agency and cross-cutting structure designed by the European Union for this single point, which has to integrate different ministerial safeguards such as Internal Administration, Finance, Justice and Defence. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that this amendment does not remove any competence from a police officer — I repeat, it does not remove any competence from a police officer.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u402	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u403	This amendment increases, yes, and consolidates the participation of all police officers and entities involved in international police cooperation in the strictest respect for their legal competences and as a result of the Schengen assessments. I stress that the diploma that will regulate this amendment expressly enshrines, in law, the head of the Judicial Police of the Office of Europol and Interpol, within the legal framework of the Single Contact Point, which had not been so far. The competence of the Judicial Police to ensure the functioning of the National Unit of Europol and the National Office of Interpol is not today in line with either the rules laid down in the Internal Security Act or the European information exchange model. The proposal that we present today will ensure that the Chief Justice of the National Unit of Europol and the Interpol National Office will be legally enshrined and that it will do so within the framework of the Single Point of Contact, avoiding dispersions, duplications and inefficiencies in the functioning of international cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is the duty of a Member State to comply with the recommendations arising from the Schengen assessments. It is the duty of a democratic rule of law to guarantee the independence of all powers and the regular functioning of all institutions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u404	The Bureau records four entries of Members to make requests for clarification to the Minister, who has already informed her that she will respond in a bloc. For the first request for clarification, Mrs Paula Cardoso of the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u405	Mr President, Madam Minister, the PSD has nothing against the creation of a Single Contact Point, the problem is to know who is left with the offices of Interpol and Europol. The head, now promised, which will be done by the judicial police, is not poured into the body of the law, nor consecrated there. It is therefore only a promise, as many promises that we are used to listening to from your government. Since he was Minister of Justice and then Minister of Internal Administration, the current Prime Minister has always demonstrated this temptation to control, politicize and "administratize" criminal investigation. He outlined several attempts and we are witnessing one today. With regard to this proposal, we raise several questions: from now on, we do not understand the end and the purpose of a criminal police service specifically designated for serious crime, such as the Judicial Police, we will deliver relations with their international peers to a structure with another purpose and with another vocation. Were there some failures or something that went wrong in the work carried out by our prestigious Judicial Police, who pushed this legislative amendment? It is that the PJ has a tradition, a prestige and an experience that is imparable in all homologous police in all Member States and in all international services. No other Portuguese institution holds this trust capital. So in the name of the truth, it was really another purpose of this amendment, wasn't it, Minister? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u406	For a request for clarification, Mr. André Ventura, of the Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u407	Mr President, Madam Minister, despite your fine speech on the rule of law, independence and separation of powers, we know that it is precisely the opposite that is at issue here, as the PS has already used us. So I am sorry to insist on the question, which I think is particularly uncomfortable today: where is the Minister of Justice? I mean, we are talking about a very profound amendment to the Contact Point and, with due respect, the Government has not sent the Minister of Justice to discuss it. This is because you know the nonsense that this is, you know what you're doing and you know the tradition that Antonio Costa, as Prime Minister, has in this matter. So I ask you if you know who appoints this secretary-general. I ask you this, because I really wanted you to say to us: "I know. » I would like you to say to the country: « These two gentlemen, these two ministers. » I'd like the Portuguese to think about this: who's going to be a criminal investigation contact point is someone appointed by the government. It's as simple as this. If it is serious, Mrs. Minister, she will respond to the Portuguese: « True, there are two ministers who appoint the Secretary-General, two members of the Government who appoint who will be the Criminal Investigation Contact Point. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u408	How is that possible? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u409	If this wasn't a Venezuelan joke, it was something different from the socialist government! [[Congrats from the CH.]] But there is more to say about this, and I hope that this diploma will never see the light of day. I call on the President of the Republic not to be intimidated by a majority. This is true because Portugal has been censored in the Schengen area and has already been warned about the Contact Point, but if the Minister is, as I think it is intellectually serious, she will know that in 92 % of the Member States this Contact Point is the criminal investigation police, and it is not any administrative structure, as it will be in Portugal. So, Mrs. Minister, tell us there: who appoints the Secretary-General? Let's imagine that he was a Prime Minister named José Socrates and that he had been asked for information from Switzerland about his bank accounts. Does anyone, in their perfect judgment, think José Socrates wouldn't have that information in his hand, 10 or 15 minutes later? We're playing with serious things and you're not kidding with this. This is very serious! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u410	For a request for clarification, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u411	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, I would like to mention a previous question to us: year after year, we have come to see a severe lack of investment and adjournment in the Judicial Police which is incomprehensible to what is the complexity of the processes that this entity is dealing with, as well as the need and reason for its existence. This proposal, which is submitted by the Government, is another blow to the Judicial Police, because it is effectively removed from its scope the Interpol National Office and Europol National Unit. This raised some problems and, from the outset, the NAP asked for the hearing of the Minister of Justice, the National Director of the PJ and the Trade Union Association of Criminal Investigation Officers (ASFIC), and the PS Parliamentary Group requested the postponement of this same hearing. Although we are very pleased to hear the Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, we do not see the Minister for Justice here either, who has incomprehensiblely disappeared on this subject. But this proposal tracks dangerous paths, since it tracks the path of politicization of what the Minister said recently was a fundamental duty of the States, which is to guarantee the independence of the institutions. So there has been, or has there not been, a failure on the part of this body to justify the taking of powers by an entity that does not have criminal competences? Was there any damage to internal security, or are we just talking about politicizing something that should not be politicized?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u412	The last request for clarification belongs to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block, who has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u413	Mr President, Madam Minister, we differ from the Government in the intention that it is brought with this bill. I will make an intervention on the substance of it and on our position. My question, very simple and direct, is about a specific article, which seems to me absolutely out of step and inserted strangely, at least, in this bill. I refer to the new paragraph 5, added to Article 25. the, which says that the appointment of top police leaders should now be preceded by the hearing of Mr. Secretary-General of the Internal Security System. This makes no sense at all. It is not clear how a structure can be mounted on the basis of an idea of direct link of the Prime Minister to this appointment and it is strange that it appears here, in a matter that has to do with exchange of information and with such a unique point of information on the national side. From this point of view, I would like you to explain to me why this article is in particular. If you do not know the answer, well, the Minister has agreed to come to this debate and the responsibility on this matter is from the Government. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u414	In reply, I have the floor of the Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u415	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the requests for clarification that have been made to me and to clarify, firstly, the entire House and, now, through the House, the Country, saying that there is no intention of the Government to politicize the police system. There is also a strong intention of the Government to continue to respect institutions, the separation of powers and the rule of democratic law.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u416	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u417	There is also the intention of the Government to continue to comply with the recommendations of the European Union, as is the recommendation for the establishment of the Single Contact Point and for that Single Contact Point to be more effective and more efficient in the field of international police cooperation to address the problems of crime that may exist. I would like to draw the attention of Mrs Paula Cardoso, with great pleasure, to the fact that the judicial police are even an institution to respect. That is why I said, from the rostrum, and I reiterate, that, in the proposal to regulate this law, it will be the judicial police remaining in coordination. I repeat, in the regulatory decree it will be the Judicial Police who will coordinate the National Office of Interpol and the National Office of Europol. Therefore, there is no further emphasis on the withdrawal of competence. On the contrary, what we are talking about, ladies and gentlemen. Members, for all of us to understand, it is the merger in the same physical space of the services relating to the competences of international cooperation at the level of the police, which does not determine the loss of competence in research matters, but determines the need to exchange information at the international level. That means, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, who should be done is that the coordinators of these offices are appointed by the Secretary-General of the Internal Security System, listening to their maximum coordinators, i.e. the Director of the Judicial Police, for example. That is why what we are creating, through more entities that are heard, is another guarantee that things can emerge more fluently and more efficiently internationally — that is what we are talking about. I'll keep the last 2 minutes for the rest of the questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u418	We now move on to the intervention period. For an intervention on behalf of the Free Party, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u419	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: As rapporteur for the opinion on the proposed law now under discussion, I would like to thank 1. The Commission, which unanimously approved this text this morning, in which, as far as it is concerned, I am exempt from expressing political opinion on it. At the time, I had the opportunity to say that there are constitutional and legal security issues and I believe that the Assembly of the Republic should accept — if the news published in the press is true — the sending of this proposal by the President of the Republic to the Constitutional Court, because only then can we have legal certainty about ongoing proceedings that are under the cover of justice, for example. But besides, there are three things I would like to say, very briefly. First, it is not at stake that we need a Single Point of Contact. If we look at Portugal, until 2014 there was the most complete « capelinhization» of police and research services in its relationship with other European countries, which, in most cases, already had One Point of Contact. Its institutional location is at stake. The fact that there is an article—particularly Article 25 (5) is at stake. the, already reminded by Mr Pedro Filipe Soares — which has nothing to do with the Single Point of Contact, but which gives prior hearing to the Secretary-General of the Internal Security System for the appointment of chiefs of police. And it is also at stake the signal that is given to other Member States of the European Union, some of which do not have the same rule of law records that Portugal has and may wish to do the same in terms of having this Single Contact Point under the leadership of the Executive.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u420	There are only two!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u421	That is why, as in 2007, when the post of Secretary-General of the Internal Security System was created and I wrote that we would not live with the intentions of this creation, but we would live with the consequences of the intentions, I now reiterate that, even if there are good intentions in this bill, I will, in accordance with that same opinion, vote against it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u422	For an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Gilvaz of the Liberal Initiative has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u423	Mr President, Mrs Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: Liberal democracy is characterized by the separation of powers between the executive power, the legislative power and the judiciary. It is important not to confuse the matter of internal security with the matter of justice, and it is this clear separation that the PS does not seem to understand. A liberal democracy that respects the separation of powers cannot accept the centralization of offices with competence within the framework of international cooperation in criminal matters at a newly created Single Point of Contact for International Police Cooperation, depending on and under the coordination of the Secretary-General of the Internal Security System. Currently, the law provides for the judicial police to ensure the functioning of the National Unit of Europol and the National Office of Interpol. It is precisely these two entities which the Government now intends to transfer to the height of the Single Contact Point for International Police Cooperation, which will be dependent on the Secretary-General of the Internal Security System. And who works on the prime minister's direct dependence? Exactly the Secretary-General of the Internal Security System. There is no doubt that we are faced with a clear strengthening of the competences of the Secretary-General of the SIS and, by drag, the Prime Minister. But it's not over here. The Government also entrusts the Secretary-General of the SSI with the power to define the internal mode of operation and the designation of the Head of the National Liaison Office to function with Europol. And the most important thing is that the Government proposes that it be the competence of this Single Point of Contact to assist the judicial authorities, within the framework of international judicial cooperation in criminal matters, thus definitively placing the feet of the executive in the already open door of the judiciary. This intrusion seriously calls into question the separation of powers and, to the limit, the independence of judicial actors in international judicial cooperation. It should not be forgotten that the Government intends to devote the intervention of the Secretary-General of the Internal Security System in the process of appointing various executive positions, including that of the National Director of the SEF. The so-called reformulation of the SEF seems to have been definitely pushed into the drawer, in another inconsequential promise of the Socialist Party. Then, as if it were not enough, we were still informed of the existence of an agreement between the Judicial Police and the Internal Security System that guarantees the exclusive management of these two entities by the Judicial Police. For the Government, these amendments seem to be the ideal. It maintains operationalization and management in the judicial police and information at a distance from the hand. As far as this is concerned, the Constitutional Court will certainly have time to take a decision. However, our concern is to ensure the existence of an independent, robust and intrusive justice system for the future. That is why we are asking why the Government opts for this organic formulation. Why is this change and what are the hypothetical benefits that justify this change? The fact is that the Government has not provided any political or operational justification for this change involving the transmission of information related to high-complex criminal activities, whose investigation may include, as recently happened, holders of political positions. This lack of justification leads us to fear that we may be faced with another PS maneuver to deepen its domain of the State apparatus with a view to its perpetuation in power, by resorting, without any doubt, to a clear blow to the liberal principle of the separation of powers. in this case, the Government cannot only be shielded from recommendations from European bodies, because these recommendations do not require a concentration of competences on the dependence of the Executive. The Liberal Initiative believes that this organic change and competence is a mistake that only weakens the already bad opinion that the Portuguese have in relation to the independence of the judiciary, also the result of successive scandals, some at European level, as was the case with false information supporting the candidature of José Guerra for the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Justice is one of the essential functions of the State and it will be as strong and efficient as its institutions are independent, so we can no longer accept a massacre in the separation of powers, which has the only consequence of weakening the judiciary. We cannot allow the internal security of our country to be another area in the pattern that is already an image of this government: the inability to solve problems and manage the country. If the PS opts to use the compressor roll of an absolute majority to get this bill passed, the Liberal Initiative will be in line to combat the authoritarianism of this government and will support all initiatives to assess constitutionality, come from Parliament or from the President of the Republic. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u424	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the Socialist Party has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u425	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister for Parliamentary Affairs: The debate that follows the presentation of the Minister has generated, not only on the PS bench, but perhaps in many people who are seeing us, a significant dose of perplexity. First of all, we are dealing with an issue which, with all due respect for all people who have their main professional activity on a daily basis, affects the issue of the administrative organisation in the police field, with a reasonably low level of interest as regards the functioning of judicial bodies. What is particularly cartoony is the sequence of interventions made in the Chamber by noting a danger to the separation of powers, as if we were digging up Montesquieu, cutting his head off, kicking it into a stick and showing it to people to scare them, or to break the rule of law. But there is no single line in this legislative initiative in which the separation of powers is involved, because there is no single line in this legislative initiative that concerns the judiciary. We are talking about institutions that are currently, of course, dedicated to police activity and research, but none of them concern the judiciary. Many things that have been said during the last few minutes are amazing. Recently Mr André Ventura, I thought, asked: "Who appoints the Secretary-General of the Information Service? Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr President, I am returning the question to you: who is the National Director of the Judicial Police currently appointed? I have an idea that it is the government that appoints because it is executive activity, executive power and therefore the sphere of government competence. Interestingly, the Secretary-General of the Internal Security System is appointed by the Prime Minister, on a proposal from the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Internal Administration, to appoint this prior parliamentary hearing, which is curiously not the case with the Director of the Judicial Police. Therefore, if anything exists, it is the placing under the tutelage of an organ operating in the sphere and in the orbit of the government, of course, but it has a degree of scrutiny and a degree of autonomy greater than a member of the government, that is, the Minister of Justice—which was the one they pointed out—that it is who appoints the Director of the Judicial Police, because he holds a political position. So it is important to keep in mind that we are actually talking about it. Another point that is repeatedly made in several interventions is that there is no justification for this amendment. Well, the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you have not read the explanatory statement. I can point out at least what is stated in the explanatory statement that several reasons can then be consulted in detail: the 2003 Schengen evaluation and the 2010 Schengen evaluation, both of which were underlined that the Single Contact Point was not created ; guidelines issued in 2014 for the Member States on its establishment ; a Single Contact Point manual for 2020. In 2017, it was effectively created by decree-law the Single Point of Contact with different characteristics that have not yet met the European institutions, so much so that in 2017, in the third evaluation, they once again noted that this creation was not yet operationalized, effectively. By now, answering the question that was asked this morning at 1. the Commission, on which urgency, in such a hurry, the fact is that we have a fourth evaluation in 2022 and how to finally comply with what the European institutions have stressed is being breached is to approve this diploma, ensuring the operationalization of something that has already been put in that sphere in 2017. Interestingly, this same House has twice evaluated the Internal Security Act, which is provided for in Article 23. o -A, the figure of the Single Point of Contact. This law has been amended twice by the Assembly of the Republic, once for the creation of the Passenger Information Office ( GIP ) and again, later, last year. in this case, it is true that it was mostly with votes against many parties and for other reasons because it was the law of restructuring the SEF. Therefore, this provision was also changed and therefore there were votes against, but they were directed to this and not to the existence of the Single Point of Contact, and there is not in the Diary of Sessions a line, an objection, a comment by any party to say that it will "fall the Carmo and the Trinity" and that the rule of law ends from the moment when we create the Single Point of Contact. And there it was planned. Among the various entities that began to be under the aegis of the Single Contact Point, in addition to the SIRENE Cabinet, in addition to the GIP, in addition to the coordinators of the liaison officers, in addition to the police and customs cooperation coordinators and the Prüm contact points, the Europol office and Interpol unit are already planned there since 2017. They were both there. Therefore, the debate is essentially around two services with very specific characteristics, which do not do criminal investigation, underlining, do not do criminal investigation, do not devote themselves to this, they are dedicated to acting as a focal point for coordinating information between those who are involved in criminal investigation, but not only for those who are involved in prevention, for those who are engaged in police activities that are not necessarily associated with criminal investigation. Therefore, with all due respect for the people whose day-to-day is the realization of these important activities for the Republic, that this is an administrative organization theme, in which you want to emporate, in which you want to create a narrative, in which you want to scare people with the idea that suddenly the judicial power of their powers is bogging, when there is no line that concerns the judiciary. What we have is what the European Commission strictly does, not for one, not for two, not for three, but for four times it recommended the Portuguese Republic to do. Therefore, the challenge left to the House is as follows: please identify the provision of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic of 2 April 1976 which is violated by the approval of this diploma. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u426	To speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party, Mrs Paula Cardoso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u427	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members: This Government Bill, which is responsible for restructuring the Single Contact Point for International Police Cooperation, has withdrawn the national offices of Interpol and Europol from the height of the Judicial Police and placed them in the care of the Internal Administration. This is an old obsession of the Socialist Party, driven for obscure reasons, but which denounce the government's goal of implementing political control over criminal information and investigation. And the Government does so without having had a period of analysis or debate, without the Prime Minister or the Ministers protecting these areas — the Justice and the Internal Administration — having made any clarification or statement on this matter or having even dignity to be present in this discussion. This is all in a bill that raises the greatest doubts as to safeguarding the principle of the separation of powers, ensuring democracy and the pillar of the defence of fundamental rights and freedoms. We have seen this investment, with advances and retreats, at least since 2006. Now you see the light of the day this diploma because, covered by an absolute majority, the government reveals its intentions: politicizing and controlling justice. This bill falsely compromises the independence and autonomy of criminal investigation. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD believes and will defend to the latest consequences the principle of separation of powers, trusts and has always relied on judicial institutions, does not dispense with or exclude the fight against great crime, especially terrorism, organized crime, money laundering and corruption, which are, in our time, the greatest, but the greatest, enemies of democracy. That is why he cannot stop criticizing, denouncing and strongly condemning this proposal and what is behind it. by moving to the rise of the Internal Administration questions substantially relevant to the sovereign function of justice, subordinated to its logic and interests, the Government reveals a model of governance « administrativeizing ». The government reveals its purpose in the way of Louis XIV:The'state is me' — the state is me. Passing the collection, the exchange of information that serves criminal investigation and feeds it for internal security, or rather, for those who, according to this proposal, will become a kind of overseer or superpolice, who is the Secretary-General of the Internal Security System, who is dependent on the Prime Minister, is eloquent, not attempting to attribute these powers of coordination and direction on matters of investigation and criminal action, without establishing mechanisms to unequivocally safeguard the separation of powers. So we ask the government: is this the justice system that they defend? What model, what architecture of justice do you want? What is the intention of making this change now? This reform, which we strongly condemn, is in fact sin by two orders of reason: firstly, the politicization of the justice and criminal investigation to which it leads is worrying and reprehensible. Interpol and Europol must continue under the rule of the Judicial Police and not depend on a political and administrative framework, which compromises the independence of research. Secondly, this change leads to the impoverishment of our institutions. The Judiciary Police, for its prestige, for the network that built over decades, has grown a confidence of the international congeners that will be lost. in this type of information, trust is the key element. The Judiciary Police has a know-how that is essential to the sensitivity of information that is exchanged and has a reliability that gives its peers security. It is argued that centrality benefits the speed and opportunity of information. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, does the concentration of the police command that this government has proposed, or impose, give us guarantees of independence? No, it can't. Moreover, this concentration of the police command, in the fashion of the dictatorships controlling the judicial apparatus, violates fundamental rights, questioning the rule of law. So much so that the Committee on the Freedoms of the European Parliament itself has already expressed concern about this legislation and will certainly question the Portuguese Government. But there is still an issue in this proposal which clearly shows the Government's intentions. The Secretary-General of the Internal Security System, now elevated to the superpolice or superintendent, will still have the power to give an opinion in the process of appointing the GNR Commander-General, the National Director of the PSP, the National Director of the Judicial Police, the National Director of the Foreign and Border Service and the Director of the Security Information Service. The political control that is intended to be achieved with such a measure is clear. The opinion is mandatory, but it is not binding, bringing even more noise to this measure. It is assumed that the opinion of this Secretary-General on a certain person to be appointed is negative and, nevertheless, this is the one appointed to the office. These structures are intended to work together, loyal to each other, and this kind of situation could raise and create a part taken between them. It is true that the Government always listens to European reports or recommendations to justify these bullyings to the rule of law, and this time it does. But, in this case, do so with the cover of the absolute majority, with the shameless sovereignty of whom everything can, of whom it may even challenge the fundamental rights of citizens. It should be remembered here, in this House, that police polarity is a guarantor of the rule of law, a guarantor for the citizens, who, with this diploma, see the State consume the centralization of the police power, which is totally alien to our tradition and of dubious constitutionality. The attempt to consume the police concentration and to govern and use security and criminal investigation matters is not new, has historical and precedent, always with the same protagonist: António Costa — António Costa as Minister of Justice and Internal Administration and, now, Antonio Costa, Prime Minister, all-powerful, absolute majority, in a logic of Je sous le Roi, je sos la Loi, I am the king, I am the law. In the PSD we reject this system that goes towards a simplistic and customary model of the great devotee that everything supervises, everything protects, everything watches. On the day that Ursula von der Leyen, in his speech from the state of the Union, announced measures for an effective fight against corruption and concluded by calling on the Member States to make a pact for the defence of democracy and judicial independence, we are provided with this Government diploma, which constitutes an attack on the independence of criminal action and democracy, which is why this diploma deserves our condemnation. The PSD, in government or opposition, does not abdicate its sense of state and respect for institutions, does not fail to contribute to prestige and to confidence in our justice system, our police officers and all those involved in these sovereignty functions. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u428	The Bureau noted Mr Pedro Delgado Alves' registration to request clarification. Considering that we are in negative values, in terms of time, I wonder if Mr... [[Pause.]] I do not risk giving time myself, because I have already been criticized for it. I'll be criticized once. The honourable Member will give you one minute for Mrs Paula Cardoso's reply and, therefore, if there is no objection on the part of any parliamentary group, I will count on one minute, not discounting the 51 negative seconds. You have the floor, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, to make the request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u429	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Paula Cardoso, I would like to ask you two very briefly. The first question is: does the honourable Member not consider that giving the possibility of issuing an opinion of those who do not issue an opinion today is a self-limitation of the powers of the Government, which today can freely appoint the entities concerned and must comply with the opinion of an entity which is different from theirs? This is the first question. Secondly, the honourable Member stressed the importance of the plurality of the police in our system. That is precisely the point on which this legislative intervention is taking place. Currently, the Judicial Police is only one of the actors in this system and it is the one who receives all the information and that is where the two offices, Europol and Interpol are located. It follows that the Judicial Police is responsible for only 14 % of the information received and is used in their investigations, with 33 %, for example, of the sphere of the GNR or PSP, because they relate to security forces and services. Is it not more balanced and "guarantistic" and, precisely, neutral in the presence of several actors, to ensure that there is a focal point that allows information to be distributed to all security forces and all criminal police bodies?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u430	I'll try to be brief. PSD reiterates that nothing has against creation... [[Laughing.]] You didn't give me the word. I'm sorry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u431	Madam Member, at 8 hours less than 10 minutes, the fastest you can do your intervention is an advantage for all of us. [[Laughing.]] Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u432	Thank you, Mr. President, and I'm sorry. Dear colleague, the PSD has nothing against the creation of a Single Point of Contact and understands that it will be useful for its creation. The question is about the height of who he is, because the type of information that is provided by the judicial police or that is exchanged by the international police always refers to crimes such as money laundering, terrorism, trafficking in human beings, drug trafficking, arms trafficking, and, as you know, are very sensitive subjects, for which it is necessary to have a very important know-how. He also knows very well that most of the police and the Contact Points, most of the few in the European Union, are under the wing of the correspondent for our Judicial Police rather than under the leadership of a Director-General for Internal Security. Therefore, you know perfectly well that the feeding of criminal action and criminal investigation is done by the exchange of such information, and this type of information, which you will drink of criminal action and investigation, is being called into question, because it will first pass by the political critique of a figure that is dependent on the Prime Minister of Portugal. Imagine that the Prime Minister of Portugal is the target of this information and will know in the first hand what will happen in his life and in his daily practice. Therefore, the separation of powers is absolutely at stake, the independence of the judiciary and the criminal investigation is at risk, so we strongly condemn this type of acting by a majority such as that of the PS, which uses this majority to come through the rule of law and fundamental rights of citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u433	For an intervention, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u434	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members: We know of the official orientation now, that it is « dialogue, yes, but then voting and the absolute majority will make its way », or « we are not ashamed of the absolute majority ». But with regard to these matters, even more so with a recent history of a Prime Minister who was not well in the fight against corruption, because he was caught precisely in the webs of corruption, there should be more cautions on the part of the Socialist Party. In fact, when you ask 'where is the separation of powers? » Here, with this diploma, the answer is that an already cloudy area of Portuguese legislation will be deepened with regard to the management of information on criminal proceedings. This is the problem. In the past we warned about this, the position of the Left Block is not new. But what the government is bringing here is an even more negative development, in order to remain below the reach of Mr. Prime Minister information that should remain below the threshold not of the government but of justice. What does Mr. Secretary-General of the Internal Security System do? Oh, my God! He explained it in a very simple way when he came to Parliament at his hearing. He said: "I am an information facilitator. I have to ensure that information is circulated, but I report to the Prime Minister. Do not keep on seeking. ” In fact, when we ask whether the Prime Minister is being investigated—for example, if he is being investigated abroad—or if, for example, another government looks at our country and wants to use the same legislation as Portugal is using and want to go after its citizens abroad—it was nothing new in this Europe! — we know that this information will be managed, with its sensitivity, by someone who is appointed directly by the Prime Minister. But he's not just appointed directly by the Prime Minister! What he says is that he passes the relevant information to Mr. Prime Minister. This is factual, I'm not making anything up here. All Members of 1. the Commission heard these words at the hearing of the Secretary-General. So the question is the following: does it make sense, then, to sharpen this centralization of information at a point so dependent on the government hierarchy? The PS may say: « Well, it is the government that sometimes appoints a set of key points of the justice system with the listening of the President of the Republic, sometimes with the hearing of the Assembly of the Republic. » It is true, but not with a direct relationship, often with the secret chance of state, and therefore without the ability of the Assembly of the Republic to monitor, in accordance with what are necessary in a state of democratic law, this sharing of information. That is the fundamental point in this matter. I would like to say again, in closing this point, that the Left Block will vote against, precisely because we disregard the relevance that the Government brings and, more importantly, the solutions that the Government brings, because, of course, there was a set of international and European alerts on how we organize ourselves, we are far from concluding that the only solution to resolve these warnings is this proposal that the Government is presenting. That's not what exists. However, there is something that seems strange and, after hearing Mr. Minister's reply, even the strangest one. It seems to be trying to put, in a debate where we can have the differences we have — and I have already demonstrated those of the Left Block — something incomprehensible to Mr General's dependence. It now has to give an endorsement, an opinion, about the top leaders of the PSP, the PJ and the GNR. But why? Oh, my God! Why does he have to do it? What's the point of this? If it was the Assembly of the Republic, it was understood. If such appointments were passed through organs of sovereignty, it was perceived. But someone in Mr. Prime Minister's dependence has to do why? By the way, is the Prime Minister mistrusting the ministers of the areas that make these indications? This is the question that remains in this context. It is incomprehensible because this is put in the same diploma and it is incomprehensible to choose to bring this form of appointment, of hearing, the debate. Having said this, this is a matter given to various populisms, but I believe that, if the PS — I insist on this point — uses the absolute majority to, as a compressor roll, take its lead, will be doing a bad service not only to the country, but also to the idea of democracy and the separation of powers, that even an absolute majority is obliged to fulfil. As we know, "Caesar's wife is not enough to be serious, she must seem serious", and from this point of view, this proposal seems to us to be all less serious. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u435	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u436	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister : For the CFP, it was always clear that the road started in 2017, with the creation of a Single Point of Contact on the dependence of the Secretary-General of the Internal Security System, should not be admitted. In fact, it is necessary to recognise that the problem is not now. It actually started in 2017 and did not lack warnings, including a request for parliamentary review by the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u437	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u438	in this regard, the CFP has also underlined concerns with successive steps taken on a secure path which has been translated into restrictions on the rights and fundamental guarantees of citizens under the pretext of combating terrorism. But today, what we have discussed, Mrs. Minister and Mrs. Members, it is the effective realization of the withdrawal of international cooperation instruments from the main criminal police body, to deliver them to a unipersonal body directly dependent on the Prime Minister. This is not of any importance at all. We have always considered that the creation of this Single Point under the leadership of the Secretary-General of the Internal Security System removes from the judicial police competences of international cooperation that this police has always assumed with recognized competence, through the national offices of Interpol and Europol, and that, in addition to depriving the main criminal police body of essential international cooperation instruments to the fulfilment of the central core of its functions, the passage of these offices to the aegis of the Secretary-General of the Internal Security System puts under government protection an essential component of criminal investigation, with sensitive aspects already mentioned. These decisions are indissociable from a weakening path of the judicial police, which raises serious concerns, because it devalues an accumulated heritage and experience and counters the strengthening of its nature and functions, with the appropriate means, of course. From the first hour, warnings were made in this sense by the representative structures of the professionals of the Judicial Police and the Public Ministry, among others. With regard to the proposal we are discussing today and which materializes this path initiated with the creation of the Single Point of Contact under the height of the Secretary-General of the Internal Security System, it is worth quoting the communiqué of the Trade Union Association of Criminal Investigation Officers, in which this structure considers dangerous—and I quote— "the path of centralization of all offices and channels of international cooperation covering sensitive matters in a structure equivalent to a State Secretariat which directly depends on the Executive". It also emphasizes ASFIC that "the information that is obtained, transmitted and processed goes beyond administrative police information, having a confidential and confidential character because it originated in criminal investigations under way of the reserved competence of the judicial police and, as a rule, under a regime of secret justice". Another issue — which has also been mentioned and which, for the CFP, is incomprehensible because it has not been given any plausible reason to justify it — is this allocation to the Secretary-General of the Internal Security System of the right of hearing and therefore effectively interferes with the appointment of maximum leaders of the security forces and services, i.e. the National Director of the PSP, the GNR, the National Director of the PJ, among others, who are hierarchically dependent on the Ministries of Internal Administration and Justice. It should also be said that none of the guarantees provided here by the Government, with regard to the division of powers, is effectively reflected in the text of the law. So at this point we would have to give the information given by the government so far as it is true. In addition, the recommendations that exist and the practice that has been adopted by several countries are intended to place the Single Point of Contact under the scope of this country's investigation police, which, in the Portuguese case, would be the Judicial Police. Finally, these various questions and these reservations, which are not born now, and in fact we can agree — for the CFP, as we considered at this time, in 2017, the proposal today raises greater reservations and concerns and does not serve, in our view, research or international cooperation, and certainly does not serve our country and trust in our institutions. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u439	Mr Ventura has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u440	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Members: This proposal entered the Chamber on 12 August, in the middle of summer, with the Assembly of the Republic closed. The government understood that it was the best time for a law to change the configuration of criminal investigation to enter. This isn't nice, nor does it have an understandable rationality. This has a reason, which is the same why certain contracts were presented in mid-August, i.e., is to try not to see Portuguese,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u441	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u442	... try to get me to the side and try to get nobody to discuss this issue seriously.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u443	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u444	Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, with his habit of putting everything together, fighting the rest and seeing if everything stays in it is as the saying said: "Nothing like pretending that we are changing everything, to keep everything in it. Do not keep on seeking. ” It's just that it's not right here, and you know it's not. So I'm so sorry about the freight you have to be here today. You know what you're saying and what you should have said. In the Organic Law of the Judicial Police, whose director is, in fact, appointed, speaks in autonomy of the Judicial Police. I will tell you what is said about the Secretary-General of the Information System of the Portuguese Republic. It is said that this body acts — and I quote — «on the direct dependence of the Prime Minister». Mr President, do you want to compare an appointment with the Prime Minister's direct dependence?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u445	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u446	It's comparing the incomparable! It's putting part of the criminal investigation in Mr. Prime Minister's hands!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u447	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u448	That is unacceptable, as you know. But you know more than that, because you have an obligation to know. He knows that in the proposal submitted in accordance with Article 23 ( 2 ( ( j ). o -A, it is said that this body also assists the judicial authorities, in accordance with criminal procedural law, in the context of international judicial cooperation in criminal matters. This body, with a direct employee of the Prime Minister, will play a central role, assisting, at the level of the criminal police, in the Portuguese criminal proceedings. Therefore, you may try to fool a lot of people all the time, but when you start looking at the norm, we realize what is at stake and we realize why this cannot be.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u449	That's right! That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u450	But we still have some important issues in addition to the regulatory issue. It is clear, Mr and Mrs Minister, that whoever should have this Contact Point should be someone within the scope of the Office of the Attorney-General of the Republic, because there, yes, the full autonomy and complete independence of this body is guaranteed. Not so, it is the judicial police who have to guarantee. [[Congrats from the CH.]] What was supposed to happen in a serious democracy was who has total autonomy not to be held accountable to the government in criminal investigation. Mr President, in order not to offend anyone in this House, let's see who the Secretary-General of the Information System is. He is a career ambassador, not a magistrate — I repeat, a career ambassador — appointed by successive PS and PSD governments. So, let's not play with people! We are talking about someone who is politically appointed, that all life has been politically appointed and that therefore cannot be in the hands of security and justice. It seems obvious to me. [[Congrats from the CH.]] That is why, Mr. President and Mr. Members, I think that when it is said that this is of relatively short importance, as Mr Pedro Delgado Alves said, that is actually trying to deceive the Portuguese in this matter. Only that this is not so, we know what is at stake and the President of the Republic has the mandate and he has the duty to take this to the Constitutional Court, because it is a grosser — the most gross of this legislation — violation of the principle of the separation of powers. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u451	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, from the PS, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u452	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr André Ventura: If we want to have a debate in which people really understand us, let us not deceive them and let us not pass what is in the law by something different from what is here reduced to writing. Never have the two offices concerned, Europol and Interpol, committed criminal investigation and continue to do no criminal investigation. This is why its relocation to the centralized focal point does not alter criminal investigation. When a point is put, like the one mentioned above, it is a good argument, which I would like to thank if you put in the debate, when you say "help the judicial authorities under criminal law". It's a novelty, Mr. Deputies. Do you know who is the holder of criminal action in Portugal and continues to be? It's the Public Prosecutor's Office. Therefore, when they are called to act for some reason, the offices of Europol and Interpol do so under the aegis of the Public Prosecutor, who is the one who coordinates and who actually conducts criminal investigation under the Internal Security Act and in particular under the Criminal Investigation Organization Act. Finally, why is the option not that of the PGR? Because, despite what I have just noted, i.e. being a relevant service within the framework of judicial intervention, what is true is that both the office of Interpol and Europol do not only deal with judicial information. They do not deal exclusively with judicial information, they also treat and ensure the coordination of police information, which is not necessarily the information to be transmitted to the PGR. There, effectively, the game distribution or, so to speak, the focus of this point is relevant to the police. Therefore, identifying a neutral point that makes that path is effectively a balanced solution...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u453	Neutral?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u454	Neutral, Mrs. Deputy, in the sense that the judicial police...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u455	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u456	... it is one of the interveners, and, as I have noted, even statistically, it is not the one who receives the most information, and is therefore the most appropriate and curial, maintaining — and to this end, Mr President — autonomy in the sense that each office is conducted by a person responsible for its institution,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u457	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u458	...as, in fact, is in the law decree, which is widely cited, which is Decree-Law No 10 / 2020 — and I now conclude, yes, Mr President — in which the necessary amendments will be made following the adoption of this law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u459	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u460	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, it is true, he does not do criminal investigation, but participates in an essential stage of criminal investigation,... [[Well, well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u461	...that it is the request for information, as indeed you well know. Let us imagine, by mere hypothesis, this scenario: an investigating judge wants to ask for information about the bank accounts of the Portuguese Prime Minister, and he can ask. Now, when that request comes... I will ask you to Switzerland, Spain, Italy, Bangladesh, anywhere, and you will say « I want information through Europol from Mr. Prime Minister's accounts ». How can there be someone in this cabinet who depends directly on the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u462	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u463	How, my God? Is it so hard to understand? How can there be someone who depends directly on the man we're investigating? It's a misunderstanding, it's an absurd! It is, legally, an absurd! [[Congrats from the CH.]] By the way, we're not the ones who say it. They are the prosecutors and the PJ who are against the new law; they are the unions of the Public Ministry that are against the new law; they are the unions of the judicial officials who are against the new law. You haven't invented the gunpowder! [[Congrats from the CH.]] It is that, in addition to the PS jurists, there are others who are analyzing the laws and seeing what is going on. Therefore, they can give here the areas they want, but I think it's a bit of a contradiction, to a party that said, in the election campaign, that the point of honor was the separation of powers, that the point of honour was the autonomy of the criminal police, now, at a certain stage of the road, to put an employee of the Prime Minister to exchange information on criminal investigation. [[Congrats from the CH.]] This is unconstitutional, but, above all, it is so embarrassing to the ministers, who we only have here today — and I say 'only' with respect — the Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs. Nor do we have here the Minister of Justice, who today must have thought: "I have to face this? Fuck off, I'm gonna stay home! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u464	To close the debate, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u465	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I think it is worth pointing out again that there is no obsession in violating the principle of separation of powers. There is an obsession, yes: respect for the rule of law and respect for the institutions. [[Mr André Ventura's laughs.]] It sends the truth and respect for the institutions that understand what is at stake. This has already been said, in fact, several times by Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, and I am re-emphasizing. First, this law does not alter the protection of any of the police, and the Ministry of Internal Administration will continue to protect PSP and GNR and the Ministry of Justice will continue to protect the judicial police. There is no change — no change! — the powers of the police. I stressed it a little while ago and pointed out again: there is no change! What's the matter, ladies and gentlemen? Members, if we want to understand, it is a criminal police organization regarding access to information and distribution of such information. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Secretary-General of the Internal Security System is legally unable to access specific processes or the elements and information of them. Therefore, it is not worth being systematically creating ghosts where there are no. The law prevents Mr. Secretary-General for Internal Security from having access to more than what his duties are, i.e. concrete processes. Mrs. Paula Cardoso, I perceive your obsession with saying that Dr. António Costa is authoritarian,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u466	And it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u467	...but don't go that way. You know why? Because it's a mistake what you're saying. The diploma does not have to do with criminal investigation, Mrs Deputy; the diploma deals with information and information exchange.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u468	But what information?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u469	...of the criminal police. It's not research, it's not criminal investigation! Finally, I'd just like to underline two things. Mr André Ventura, I do not understand your astonishment by the Secretary-General of the Internal Security System being appointed by the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u470	But it has autonomy!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u471	Mr. Director of the Judicial Police is appointed by the Minister of Justice, Mr. Attorney General of the Republic is appointed by the President of the Republic, after hearing the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u472	But it's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u473	I believe that our years of democracy have shown how strong our democracy is, is strong, and that the government will continue to respect the rule of democratic law and the separation of powers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u474	Mr President, I would like to speak for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u475	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u476	Mr President, I do not want, as I said earlier, to disregard the Minister and, when I said « alone», it had to do with competence and not with the person who performs the role. From the perspective of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, the President of the Assembly of the Republic should ensure that, when there are certain debates — guaranteeing or at least providing in this respect, despite the autonomy of the Government — the holder of the folder or the Secretary of State that protects this folder was here discussing the issue, otherwise the Assembly of the Republic might be here discussing a subject of trade with the Minister of the Sea or discussing an economic issue with the Minister of Justice. I believe that the prestige of the Assembly of the Republic, its President and the parliamentary groups is also in order to ensure that the Government, with respect to the parliamentary debate, when there is a diploma of this importance, has the holders here, if not the Minister, at least the Secretary of State holding the folder. Otherwise — and I would like to say again with all my consideration for Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes — it would be the same as putting the Minister of Commerce to discuss matters from the sea. The respect and prestige of the Assembly of the Republic deserved a little further this afternoon. It remains with the government, not with you, this critical note we make. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u477	This is an organic government law!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u478	Also for an appeal to the Bureau, you have the floor of Mr. Minister, without the same request Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves. You have the floor, then, of the Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u479	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, with respect to this House of the Republic, allow me to say that the government is represented by whom it believes it should be represented. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is the subject of the reorganization of the cooperation service.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u480	of Justice!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u481	No, Mr President, it is the same subject under the leadership of the Prime Minister and, therefore, the Deputy Minister and Parliamentary Affairs. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u482	Thank you very much, Mr and Mrs Minister. The Rules of Procedure determine the conditions under which the Government is represented in the debates in a specific way, such as the debates with the Prime Minister, the debate on the presentation of the Government's Programme, the debate on the state of the nation and, in the case of sectoral debates, by the respective ministers. Then the rule of freedom of representation of the Government is in force and the political significance is withdrawn by the honourable Members. Members and by public opinion. We therefore close our agenda today and thank everyone for their enormous effort, for it was a long plenary session. Let us also read the file, and then I have to read tomorrow's agenda, so I ask for another 2 minutes of patience. I then give the floor to the Secretary of Bureau Maria da Luz Rosinha to proceed with the reading of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u483	Mr. President, very briefly, I want to inform you that they have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, Bills No. 264 / XV / 1. a ( CH), 266 / XV / 1. a ( IL), 268 / XV / 1. a ( CH) and 274 / XV / 1. a ( BE ), down to 5. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-14.u484	Thank you very much, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. Mrs. Members of the agenda for tomorrow, as set out in the PSD, include the discussion of draft resolution No 206 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government implement a social emergency programme in response to the inflation crisis and may vote at the end of the session, if required by the proposer. The session is closed. [[It was 20 hours and 17 minutes.]]
