ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Journalists, let's start our plenary session. [[It was 10 hours and 14 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the galleries to the public. Allow me to ask the Government to pay more time on upcoming occasions. The first item on the agenda is the general assessment of the Bill No 33 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) and Law Projects Nos 237 / XV / 1. a ( BE), 247 / XV / 1. a ( PAN), 262 / XV / 1. a (PAN), 264 / XV / 1. a ( CH), 265 / XV / 1. ( IL), 266 / XV / 1. a ( IL), 271 / XV / 1. a ( IL), 273 / XV / 1. a ( BE) and 274 / XV / 1. a ( BE), together with Resolution Projects Nos 195 / XV / 1. a ( PAN), 196 / XV / 1. a ( PAN), 205 / XV / 1. a ( PAN), 207 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) and 209 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ). Mr Pedro Pinto asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u2	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u3	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u4	Mr President, in the summary we received from the Conference of Leaders—and this must be a clear and precise summary—we have on page 7 a draft law of the Arrival, which was dragged to the fifth point of today's agenda, which expands the range of beneficiaries of the Porta 65 Youth programme, ensuring the right to young housing. Then we received the agenda and, I don't know if by magic, the bill of arrival disappeared from today's plenary agenda. We have already made a request for the decision to be reviewed last Wednesday night and we have not received an answer. I believe that the minimum that this Parliament has to give to a political party and a parliamentary group is an answer — and they have not given us an answer — and I would like to know why this project has not been dragged to the fifth point of today's agenda. We know that Article 65. the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic stipulates that it is the President of the Assembly of the Republic who defines whether or not there is connection between the projects, but, if we repair at the first point of the order of business, we have the bill of law of the Government, which determines the income update coefficient for 2023, and the dragging of the Bill No. 262 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ) — Approves tax incentives for the use of collective transport by amending the IRS and the IRC Code, which has nothing to do with the proposed law presented here by the Government. There cannot be a duality of criteria, but what is happening is that there is a criterion for arriving and there is a criterion for other parties. That is what is at stake here. That is what we are complaining about, and that is why we are asking for an appeal to the plenary. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u5	Mr. Deputies, as I have said, the projects are dragged once it has been found that there is an effective connection with the projects that motivate this drag. The pragmatism in the Assembly of the Republic has been that whenever a parliamentary group raises the question of whether or not this effective connection exists, this question is examined by the law-makers, who is the President of the Assembly of the Republic. That is what happened at the Conference of Leaders, in which I believe that you were present. The Parliamentary Group has raised the question of the material connection of this project of the Arrival and I have requested information from the Services of the Assembly of the Republic. The Technical Note of the Services made me review the decision to accept the material connection of this project of Arrival. That decision was communicated to the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival. I take the words of the honourable Member that the Parliamentary Group of the European Union wishes to appeal this decision to the plenary. Therefore, it has 2 minutes to present and proceed with the CL immediately after the vote on that appeal. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u6	Mr. President, I am just going to say that we consider that our bill has all the connection to the bill of the Left Block. The left block bill says it guarantees the right to housing, protecting the use of fractions for housing purposes. Now, our bill says it expands the range of beneficiaries of the program Porta 65 Jovem, ensuring the right to young housing. We're talking about young housing and we're talking about housing rights both in one project and another. We are talking about the right to housing, whether young or not. If we are discussing the enlargement of this programme, which has been insufficient, we are discussing a basic right, which is the right to housing, and which is both for young people and for the less young. Therefore, that is what we defend and therefore present this resource. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u7	The Bureau shall no longer register, so that we shall proceed to the vote on the appeal submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CFP were rejected, votes against the CH and the IL and abstentions against the PSD, BE, PAN and L.]] We then move on to the agenda with the introduction of Law No 33 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Determines the income update coefficient for 2023, creates extraordinary rental support, reduces VAT in the supply of electricity and establishes a transitional pension update regime. Mr. Minister for Finance, Fernando Medina, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u8	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: The Government today presents in this House a programme to respond to the increase in prices that families put first, an effective, comprehensive, timely and prudent plan. First, this is an effective plan because it responds directly to the needs of families. Our families face daily increases in prices in various goods and services, from fuels to housing, to transport, to the generality of the areas of goods and services. And the Government responds: our programme returns cash support for each Portuguese to use as a good idea, in what it understands to be more pressing, thus relying on the choices of families and optimizing each one's defense against inflation, containing or limiting prices in some key categories, such as housing, such as transport, and tax reductions, in order to allow lower price growth, particularly in the area of fuel and energy. Secondly, this is a comprehensive plan. It covers because it is the broader and more ambitious support plan than there is. And the reason for that is simple. In the face of an inflationary crisis that affects all, the State supports all. We therefore reaffirm the important social contract we have established with the Portuguese. The plan responds to those who need it most and does not forget the middle classes. It responds to those who have low and medium incomes, to those who receive social benefits, to the unemployed, to pensioners, to the children. And in responding to everyone, he also responds to companies, who gain the support of the purchasing power of families. This is in addition to the income and fuel support that are also beneficial and the specific measures that were also reinforced yesterday. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thirdly, this is a timely and timely plan because it meets the present requirements. As we have always guaranteed, we continuously assess the reality to better respond to the needs of families and businesses. This was the case in October last year when we started fuel support; this was the case in March and April this year, when we added support for the poorest families and businesses; this was the case in May, when we further reduced the cost of fuel by lowering the ISP (tax on oil and energy products) to a value equivalent to the reduction of the VAT rate (tax on added value) from 23 % to 13 %;...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u9	And did people feel that? Oh, my God! How can it be! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u10	...it was so in July, when we reduced the costs of electricity, and it is, now, with this plan, greater, more transversal and more ambitious, a plan that will reach all Portuguese, from the most vulnerable to the middle classes. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is finally a prudent plan, because it does not call into question our ability to respond in the most adverse circumstances, because it makes a contract with future generations by respecting what is the greatest commitment of all, safeguarding the future margins of action and protecting our social state. With the Family Plan First, the government responds because it has to do so, but also because we can do it. Our economy is growing at a good rate. The gross domestic product(GDP) is expected to rise more than 6 % this year, we have recovered in full from the pandemic crisis and will already be above the pre-COVID-19 level of activity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have a strong and dynamic labour market, with more than 100 000 jobs than before the pandemic, and in addition to all this, we have the right accounts. Even with the support mobilised over 2022, which exceeds EUR 4 billion, we will meet our budgetary targets. The CL deficit will be reduced from 2, 8 % to 1, 9 % of the Product and the public debt will fall to values below 120 % of the Product. We will continue to work and we will be able to take Portugal off the podium of the most indebted countries in the European Union, returning soon to the levels of debt recorded before the pandemic. This is the best way to protect our families and our businesses. That is how we will be able to contribute to mitigate the effect of interest increases and that is why we can be confident that we will maintain the answer margin for the future, with the right accounts and with credibility. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Because we do not know how long the challenges that are facing today will last, it is essential that we extend the power to respond to the uncertain circumstances that the future may bring. This is our plan, an effective, comprehensive, timely and prudent plan that the country needs and which therefore deserves the approval of this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u11	The Minister has six requests for clarification, to which he will answer together. The first request for clarification is for the Parliamentary Group of the CFP, with Mr Bruno Dias speaking.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Minister of Finance, let us begin by clarifying one thing: what the government is proposing, what it is in the diploma that the government is presenting, is not the allocation of any support to pensioners, whether half board or whatever. Don't! What the Government here proposes is the suspension of the law in force, with an exception regime that updates retirement pensions in half of the amount to which pensionees are entitled. This government proposal is detrimental to pensioners and pensioners, in view of what the law establishes today. Mr Minister, how do you expect this measure to be voted on? Oh, my God! Are you expecting us to support and approve the penalty, the limitation, the restriction on the updating of reforms? What is necessary is not to restrict, limit pensions in their updating, what is needed is to increase pensions and wages! What is needed is to defend the purchasing power and the living conditions of those who work and those who have worked their entire lives. But more: it is urgent to stop inflation, in particular, by controlling and fixing prices, preventing speculation and escalating the cost of living. The Minister and the Government continue to note that they do not realize that there are those who are earning millions at the expense of populations and productive sectors, taking advantage of the crisis. They continue to say that such millionaire profits are being avoided by the government. Avoided, Minister? Oh, my God! The Minister and the Government continue to flee at seven feet from the debate and, more importantly, from concrete action, in the extraordinary taxation of these millionaire profits. They have always rejected these measures in order not to address the interests of the large economic groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u13	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u14	Mr President, and once again you said that, the government puts families first. This can be true for some families, the Amorim family, the Mello family and others of the same size, who are among the main beneficiaries of the political options of this government. [[CH's laughs.]] It is the interests of those gentlemen who defend and represent. You choose the company you're with. You choose which side you are on, choose which interests you defend and choose your company. What we ask is whether they will continue to ignore the concrete need for these resources to be put in the service of the people and the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u15	The second request for clarification is for the Left Block Parliamentary Group. To this end, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Minister of Finance, on these three sheets I have here is the government's social response plan to the biggest inflationary outbreak of the decade. We know that quantity does not mean quality, but in this case what is good is scarce and the rest of the government has to present to the country is really very, very bad. We look at these three pages, and where is the extraordinary rate on excessive profits, defended by the European Commission? It is that, while the government acquits excuses, Galp has just announced an extra bonus to shareholders on account of more than 153 % of profits they had in 2022! Where are wage updates, Minister? For workers who accumulate one month's salary loss in 2022, the insinuation on the 2 % increases to 2023 is nothing for someone who will lose 12, 3 % accumulated in 2023. In fact, it's nothing and it's an insult to all the people who keep the social state and will lose more than one month's salary per year. Where are the measures to support those who see the house being provided and to prevent a wave of evictions in Portugal, with the increase of interest in housing benefits? Where are the mechanisms for controlling the prices of essential goods when we know that there is abuse and exploitation of large companies, large supermarkets, which use inflation to increase prices? Does the Minister have the courage to present here the scenario of a bright economy, which grows to 6 %, dynamic, at the same time as everything he has to present is a plan that is a trick? A trick to deceive people about support that neither comes down prices nor solves anyone's life. Does the Minister not realize the contradiction of presenting an economic growth of 6 % at the same time as he looks at public officials and says to them: 'You will impoverish them over these three years'? Does the Minister not understand the speech he has made here and the contradictions he has brought us? I have one question to ask you: already everybody has noticed that such extraordinary support for pensioners is no more than an anticipation for 2022 half of the pension that was due in 2023. I hope that the Government has also realized that using the social security sustainability ghost to break the law is to do a right-hand favour and right-wing arguments to privatize social security and against compliance with the law and pensioners' rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u17	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u18	I hope the government and the PS have understood that. In the last debate we had here I heard Mr Eurico Brillante Dias say that this pension measure — incomprehensible and unexplainable — brought predictability to pensioners' pensions. See, predictability of pensioners' pensions!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u19	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u20	On behalf of this forecasting capacity for the future, I would like to ask a very specific question to which the Minister has to answer: is the pension update of 2024 based on the full pension of 2023, as the law defines, or based on half of the pension of 2023? Predictability is this! What do pensioners count on in 2024? With an entire pension update, as the law commands, or half board, as the Government proposes? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u21	The third request for clarification is for the PSD Parliamentary Group. To that end, Mr Nuno Carvalho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, we have listened carefully to your words, saying that the government responds, saying that the government returns, but it would be important to understand why the government has responded so late and it would be important to understand how much the government has taken up from what it says it is returning. These are the first questions I ask you: how much did the government take? How much did the government take? [[PSD applause.]] The Government is not responding to what it has taken, but responds, Minister. I see it here with excessive confidence. I must tell you that this confidence has already cost you in elections and you are an example of how the Socialist Party has already lost elections with this excessive confidence.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u23	The theme today is not that! [[PSD laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u24	But I will tell you one thing, Minister : this situation that Mr Minister is bringing here with regard to pensions,... [[PS protests.]] The Socialist Party's nervousness is seen. You are stumbling in the truth; even the government may fall, as the PS has already fallen in Lisbon, but today is not the issue. The subject here is another. Mr Minister, as far as pensions are concerned, in order to speak the truth to the Portuguese here, can you tell us clearly that you are cutting pensions, that pensioners will receive less? This, in practice, is like picking up a cake that pensioners are entitled to for the year and ration this cake, dividing it. That is not adding, that is ration of pensions. Is Mr. Minister not able to answer clearly, or is he? Because what is a kind of government not to tell the truth always has an inheritance, as seen here by the PCP and BE, and it is worth asking where they were in the time of management. Where was this version of the left in the time of management?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u25	Where was the left? Oh, my God! It was the left that put this law into effect!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u26	Because this version of the left that we see today, in practice, did not exist, and they are also part of the inheritance of what your decisions are. [[BE's protests.]] So, Minister, how long will you cut your pensions? The cake you're talking about today is ration of pensions, Minister. How much are you going to cut into the pensions? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u27	The fourth request for clarification is for the PS Parliamentary Group. To that end, Mr Francisco César has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, Minister, allow me, before asking you a direct question, to comment a little on what has been said and said by the PSD. Mr PSD, you must not have any kind of shame — I repeat, any kind of shame — to come to this House accusing the Socialist Party and the governments of the Socialist Party of cutting pensions,... [[PSD protests.]] ... when you arrive here, presenting yourself as palladins of the fight against inflation — I do not speak of your pension cutting register anymore — and present to this House a package of measures which is three and a half times below the package of measures presented by this Government. Three and a half times! [[P.S.'s applause.]] And more: the measures that are presented by this government are not only directed at some. They are specifically directed at the issue of rising energy costs, rising income costs, on which you have not been able to make a proposal or comment on the limit we put to income costs, which we know is the fallacy of the Socialist Party. We know that we cannot help everyone at all times, but we know that it is possible to help those who need the most, redistribut the effort and do what is right at the right time, i.e. to help those who need the most, and with an advantage, having the right public accounts. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u29	It's a history class!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u30	The right public accounts are not an objective for you, Mr, but they are an instrument that allows us to turn to those who need the most, those who are most in need, helping companies. That is what distinguishes the Socialist Party from the Social Democratic Party. Mr Minister, that is exactly the point I put to you: the importance of having the right accounts, but at the same time, for example in the context of pensions, we have had a huge increase since 2015, either in terms of what is compliance with the law, or in addition to what was provided for in the law. This is what I would ask the Minister to say: the importance that we have supported pensioners since 2015 and the importance of continuing to support pensioners at the time of the crisis we are going through. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u31	The fifth request for clarification is from the Liberal Initiative. Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I was hoping that the Minister will finally come here after the discussion of the last few days to tell people the truth, look at pensioners and say: "What we are going to give you is not a bonus. It is a bonus, yes, in October, but they will pay every year from 2024 and with interest». I was hoping that, after the discussions, I would come to tell the truth, which is: "We could not make the country grow so that it could maintain the current level of pensions." He hoped he would also tell the truth about the extent to which he announced to the lease market, which was a decrease in the real value of income in the coming years, a descent that can even be compensated in 2023 but that, from 2024 onwards, constitutes a fixed and permanent loss for those who rent houses. But it is, above all, a permanent loss of confidence in the lease market. When a landlord and a tenant make a long-term contract, each one has its own obligations, but there is a third party that also has obligations, which is the State. It is expected that the Portuguese State will act as a good person and fulfill its role as a demanding and predictable arbitrator. Now, what the PS is doing here is a income control measure that will permanently devalue the purchasing power of small owners and this will have consequences. It is not just I who say it, I will quote something that has been said in this House just over four months ago: « Any income control right now will make the landlords that we still have on the market disappear ». Do you know who said that? It was not any member of this bench, it was his colleague Pedro Nuno Santos, who is not suspicious of being a big liberal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u33	It's been a long time!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u34	It is more or less liberal, according to the interlocutor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u35	He was right. I don't know if he changed his mind, as with the airport or the privatisation of TAP, but four months ago, about the lease market, he was right. And he had more reason when he added in the following sentence that « We will only have the lease market if we have gentlemen available to rent». So what we're going to have with this is that we're going to have even less landlords, even less owners available to rent. In the long term, we will have even higher prices. This measure is also a plea in the rental market cashier, already poor and where there is little incentive for long-term contracts to be made.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u36	As if the market didn't do this on its own...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u37	There are few incentives because owners know that the Portuguese State can change the rules of the game at any time. You may put the incentives you want, but no one will make a contract at 10 years if you do not know that the Portuguese State will do its part, keeping the rules predictable and stable. With social security on the ground, as you yourself admit by lowering the real value of pensions, many people save throughout their lives to acquire the only asset they understand, a house, and can supplement your pension with the income of that house and, thanks to that, many hope to have a more relaxed reform. Now, what the government did to them, after they had retired, was also lowering their extra income. The Socialist Party is this: it cannot maintain economic growth to ensure the sustainability of social security and withdraws people from the only supplement of the pension that many have. Mrs. Members, what the Government has done is take another step to end the lease market in Portugal. The whole country will suffer with this: the older ones, who save to have a pension supplement, and the younger ones, who will have even fewer houses to rent and at higher prices. We're still gonna fix that. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u38	The sixth request for clarification belongs to the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival and has the floor, to this end, Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u39	Mr President, just two previous notes: the first for Mr Bruno Dias, who said that these benches here defend the interests of the large economic groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u40	I've been wrong, you want to see...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u41	Mr. Member, the last time I came to see, the largest owner of the country was not the arriven Liberal Initiative, not even the Socialist Party, which is in government. He was the Portuguese Communist Party the largest owner in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Therefore, the interests should be those houses accumulated since 1976 that you have and it is better not to think much about the IMI (municipal property tax). [[CH's laughs.]] Mr Minister, a previous note also to you, who told us, with the good humor that you usually have, that Portugal is with a rising and dynamic economy, looking to the future. We are all looking to the future, indeed, and not, Minister, today's news of a newspaper says that ours is the eighth highest rate of poverty in the European Union. There are more poor people in Portugal. The speaker posted a newspaper. So coming here with our compatriots to attend this live debate, and saying that we are better, when half of the Portuguese feel they are worse, is to insult the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u42	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u43	But, Mr Minister, since you brought up a support programme, let's talk about this programme. It's a program of 4 billion and I wanted to ask you if these data are real. The government provides 4 billion support to families, but in IRS (tax on income of natural persons) it has cost 12 billion. I ask you whether this is true or not. Did you collect 11, 5 billion VAT or not?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u45	And has the IRC (tax on the income of the public) charged last year increased by 60 %? If these numbers are true, Mr Minister — and I think that the official entities are not fooling us — I repeat, if these numbers are true, I want you to explain to the Portuguese how we have 12 billion IRS, 11, 5 billion VAT, plus 60 % IRC and we give a few miles to the Portuguese of 4 billion. This is to play with those who work! It's fun with the whole country! And it's this government's fault. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Mr. Minister said you were going to make an extraordinary increase in pensions. In the same mood, he said that we would have an increase in pensions between 3, 53 % and 4, 43 %. This is the increase in pensions proposed by the Socialist Party. Only that this increase in pensions conceals tax reality and numerical reality. It is that the government has changed the pension calculation formula and with this it is giving a bonus in October to withdraw more next year.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u46	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u47	It's important that people understand this at home. What the government is doing is « take over next year and for the year I will give you less than what I promised to give, because it will fall below the planned update ».
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u48	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u49	Now, in the general context, this has a name, it is called to promise and not give, it is called a theft of the government to the Portuguese. That's what it's called, for those who want to make very simple accounts. [[Congrats from the CH.]] And this, Minister, does not happen again. Either the Minister explains that this is not so or there is no way to make the numbers or the formulas, because they are what they are, even if we do not particularly like them. To finish—I would even say that we are even more ashamed of Europe and the world— Mr. Minister, with the support of the Socialist Party's bench, announced a reduction in the VAT of electricity and said that it will certainly please all parliamentary groups...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u50	Go, go!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u51	...who have been asking for this reduction in electricity VAT for years. The arrival made the accounts, Minister, and they do not leave any doubt either: what a Portuguese will benefit in an invoice of 100 € is about 1, 1 euro, repeat, 1, 1 euro. It is important that people know this: 1, 1 euro is what gives a government that has collected 12 billion IRS in the last year, 11, 5 million VAT and more 60 % IRC!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u52	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u53	But, Mr. President, Mr. Members, Minister, this has a name: it's a fraud, it's a fraud we're discussing here today, and the arrival will not deal with it. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u54	In reply, Mr. Minister for Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is disturbing that the Members of the PSD and the Liberal Initiative come to talk about the issue of pensions, because, truly, we are talking about a political right which, first of all, was the only one in this country that nominally cut pensions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD, CH and IL protests.]] But more: the political right in this country aims to end the public pension system and pass the pensions to individual accounts, which will be played in the stock exchange. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CH protests.]] The parties that have never contributed to the sustainability and defense of a public system are those who now come here to tear the clothes, worried about the pension system and pensioners. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not accept any lesson from these benches. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to you too, but the disembarkation is so much that we have heard Carlos Guimarães Pinto talk long about the fears of the public pension system. Here, on this side of the bench, let me tell you with sympathy that what looked like was the fox looking at the chicken and saying like this: "Oh, they're not fattening the chickens, because I want to go there and look for them next. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Protests by the Member of the IL Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]] It is that what Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto argues is that there is no public social security system, that there is no public social protection, social security, pensions, and that they are left on the market, in the stock market, in individual accounts. So, Mr... [[Protests by the Member of the IL Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u56	Mr. Minister, please excuse me for interrupting you. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask everyone, without exception, that we have a behaviour that allows us to listen to each other. [[Continuation of CH and IL protests.]] I'm asking all of you and all of you. Ladies and gentlemen, without exception. I speak Portuguese and everyone here understands this beautiful language, which is ours. Mr. Minister, please proceed. [[Protests by the Member of the IL Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]] So, Minister of Finance, please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u57	Thank you very much, Mr President. I understand that the truth hurts and bothers, but the truth is this: the right has no authority to come and talk about anything about the public pension system, when the only thing that made it cut pensions and propose that it end it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD, CH and IL protests.]] But let's go even further to the government's proposals. I understand the discomfort, I understand the discomfort: it is that the Government's proposal, contrary to what many of us do. Members have said and said, fully respects the value that would result from the application of the formula between the support given this year and the increase next year—in all! [[P.S.'s applause.]] As much as the gentlemen. Members say otherwise, the truth is this: the government scrupulously fulfils what was the value resulting from the application of the formula from 1 January, considering the support of October and the increase in the pension during the year 2023.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u58	That's not true! The pensioners are damaged!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u59	Some devalue that, some devalue support in October. I would not devalue support in October when it is precisely this year that price increases are getting bigger, more significant, and that people need the money to get to them fast. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH and IL Member Protests Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]] The second point is that the honourable Members. Members question and say « the programme is small ». Mrs. Members, this is the most comprehensive and broader programme of support programmes that this government and other governments have submitted. And what we do, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, is very simple: we fully returned the increase of VAT, in view of what was the expected revenue in the State budget for 2022. I've seen accounts where they're going to look for a comparison of the VAT or other tax revenue by the year 2021. [[Protests by the Member of the IL Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]] Mr President, we have approved a 2022 budget in which we have an increase in revenue and we have an increase in expenditure. The account to be made, strictly speaking, is: what is the expectation that the State will benefit from higher inflation. And what I can guarantee is that this revenue increase is fully returned, within VAT, through this programme,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... because we honor the contract between the state and the Portuguese. The third theme that I would like to give a very clear answer is the taxation of unexpected profits. I had the opportunity to make it very clear yesterday that the Government has no closed position on any taxation mechanism, in particular that it is being coordinated in the European area. But let us be clear: the Portuguese Government was the first government in the European Union and the euro area to be able to use mechanisms that transmit and pass on to consumers what would be excessive profits on the part of electricity companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] When we create the Iberian mechanism that separates the price of electricity from the price of gas, when the transmission of the gas increase mechanisms is limited to the price of electricity, what we are doing is operating a massive transfer of resources from the electricity companies to the hands of consumers. And today this value is EUR 500 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u60	Mr. Minister, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u61	Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying that with the proposal that the Government has made to open the regulated gas market to consumers who intend to join, what we are in practice doing is transferring what would be expected, very significant, from gas companies to consumers. In addition to these two mechanisms, on an annual basis, we speak in more than EUR 1100 million, which are transferred from companies to consumers,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... are now transferred, they are not transferred in any future, and this option we have today is being followed up at European level, seeking to approve it, which corresponds to an effective measure aimed at what people need most at this time, which is a relief from energy prices. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u62	Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u63	For a protest at the table, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u64	The protest at the Bureau will be discounted at the time of your parliamentary group, but please. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u65	It is an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u66	Mr President, we have already had a situation here in which, after the PS distributes literature and after I distribute literature, Mr President asked all banks not to distribute literature. Yesterday, the PS Members were tired of taking photographs and, at the time I showed the photographs, Mr President asked all the benches not to present photographs. Today I was repeatedly interrupted by the government bench, by the PS bench, and only when I interrupted the government bench is that Mr. President asked all the banks not to interrupt. [[PS protests.]] Mr. President, I understand your willingness to defend the PS... [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u67	Mr. Deputy, I'm asking for one minute. I'm asking all of you. Members, in particular to the Members. Members of the Socialist Party, who are preventing Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto from exercising his right to make a protest, who end with this impediment. Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u68	Mr President, I will not spend much more time on my bench. Mr President has demonstrated bias; I think you have every right to defend the PS, it is your party, but, when you want to do so, you sit on the bench and not there at the Bureau, because that is not how you defend the PS. This is not the place to defend the PS and attack Members of other parties. You have every right to do so, it was elected for that, but when you want to do it, when you want to defend your ideas and your party, you sit on the bench and not there, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u69	We will now move on to the period of intervention, being registered, to present the Bills No. 237 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Extraordinary housing protection regime against inflation, 273 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Establish an additional rate on extraordinary profits of large companies in the banking, energy and food distribution sectors and 274 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Reduces VAT in the supply of electricity and gas bottled or channeled for consumption, Mrs Mariana Mortágua. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block presents three bills, dragged with this small plan, this great trick that the government presents here, but I would like to start by responding to PSD Member Nuno Carvalho, who asked where he had been left since 2015. It was the left that in 2015 prevented the cut that the PSD swore to do in pensions. It was the left that in 2015 prevented PS from freezing pensions. It was the left that in 2015 gave life to the pension updating law, that Mr. Deputy now swears to defend here and that he wanted to freeze when he could have applied it, law that the PS now burys, giving arguments to the right and stealing the promise he made to pensioners.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u71	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u72	Mr Minister, the proposal that the Government is not providing support to pensioners is the pensioners who will support the government to meet the targets of the 2023 deficit, which is really what is at stake with this proposal, anticipating half the pension for this year and not updating pensions on the basis of the entire 2023 pension. They are the pensioners who are helping, with their pension, the government, at their headquarters, to make budgetary shines. I recall that the Minister did not answer on which basis the pensions were based in 2024. If it is to give predictability, then tell pensioners what they will count on in 2024, this great help they are giving to the government to meet their budgetary goals. The Minister repeats the arguments that the lawyers of Galp and EDP (Energy of Portugal ) have brought to the public square to avoid an excessive profit rate. And it also repeats the only measure that the Government has taken, a measure on the electricity market, as if that measure solved the whole problem of excessive profits. Mr. Minister, the price that you priced for gas in that measure on the electricity market is a price that pays the electricity four times more than they received in 2020.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u73	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u74	So don't tell us that there are no excessive profits. Electrics receive four times as much as they received in 2020, receive three times as much as they received in 2017, an extremely dry year in which they sold electricity. Don't tell us there's no excessive profits. The bank's profits over the last two years pay your trick package and even get over it. The profits of supermarkets are obtained at the cost of increasing prices. Do not tell us that there are no excessive profits, tell us, yes, that it will tax these excessive profits and present measures to defend the population from rising prices. And one last question on VAT, the great measure that the Government has put forward. I went to the government page, from the first time that I presented the VAT reduction measure from 23 % to 13 %, only for the small consumption of 100 kW/h, and then the government said that this measure would save 1, 54 €, i.e. 1 and a half euro per month to each family.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u75	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u76	I will finish, Mr. President. I took the same accounts and calculated what would be the 13% down to 6%, and the result was 1.7 cents per month. What I wanted was for the Minister to admit that the big proposal he presented to the country was 1.7 cents per month of savings in family electricity accounts, in response to the proposal of the Left Block to lower all VAT on gas and electricity, cross-borderly. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u77	To submit Law Nos 247 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Creates an excessive profit rate in the energy sector and 262 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Approves tax incentives for the use of collective transport by amending the IRS and the IRC Code and Resolution Projects Nos 195 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government extend the conditions for access to the social rate of electricity and the social rate of natural gas, 196 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government approve the maximum marketing margins door for single fuels, 205 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government provide for measures to encourage the use of collective transport and to reduce the use of fossil fuels within the framework of the energy saving plan to be submitted to the European Commission and 207 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — It recommends that the Government approve a Sustainable Mobility Programme for Public Administration for the period 2023 - 2028, has the floor of Mrs Inês Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present: The NAP's opinion on the package of measures that the Government has come forward to combat inflation is already known. We understand that the same is insufficient, it has gaps and is far from returning to families the tax revenue jackpot that it raised, generated by inflation. Still, we believe that if the Socialist Party does not close in its absolute majority, it is still possible to make improvements to this programme, and it is precisely about these improvements that we must talk about today. First of all, we do not want tricks or juggles with the reformed. The government, which is said to be certain accounts, cannot comply with the rules on pension updating. Therefore, the NAP proposed that legality be restored and that the update be made in accordance with the law and with reference to the 7 % inflation mentioned by the Prime Minister. Secondly, we want the support of the 125 € to reach all those who work, especially those who are most vulnerable. Therefore, we propose that support be extended to trainees of the IEFP (Instituto do Employo e Formation Professional), to trainees of professional orders who started their internship this year and who, with the Government's proposal, in addition to precariousness, will be left without any support. In our view, they cannot and should not be forgotten. Thirdly, we want there to be an extraordinary complement to the scholarship to help university fellows deal with inflation in this school year. Fourthly, we want the social rate of energy and natural gas to reach all people who live below the poverty line, that is, a measure of the most basic social and environmental justice. Fifthly, we want the fight against climate change not to be forgotten about these measures, and we want sustainable mobility to be part of the Government's programme. We do not accept the usual fado, which focuses on incentives for individual transport and consumption of fossil fuels, even in the wake of the recommendations of the United Nations ( United Nations ). Therefore, we propose that tax incentives be created for companies to buy passes to their employees, which reduce pass prices, which ensure the free pass to children, young students, elderly and vulnerable families and a sustainable mobility program for the Public Administration. Finally, in sixth place, we understand that the record profit of Galp, which did not fall from heaven, particularly for the Minister of Finance, is due to speculative behaviors that have suffocated companies and families and therefore we propose a tax on the excessive profits of energy-sector companies and the channelling of this revenue for the financing of aid to families and businesses and for measures for energy transition. Here we are going to work on these proposals in the specialty, as well as the Government's proposal, which leaves animal protection behind, and we are sure that they will not close their eyes to what our proposal will be in the specialty.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u79	To submit Bill No. 264 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — To reduce the VAT rate applicable to gas and electricity, Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u80	Mr President, Minister : As regards electricity, our proposal is clear. I believe that Mr Minister, having not answered the question that came to you, has made it clear the clear truth that such a decrease in electricity through the VAT proposed by the PS is €1, €10 in turnover, i.e. almost nothing for the Portuguese. It's 1, 10 €.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u81	The Iberian mechanism requires!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u82	That is the truth and the Minister has not answered. The proposal of the Arrival is a full decline in electricity VAT at all its latitude rather than from Iberian negotiations that only benefit Spain and harm Portugal. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The Minister presented a table which says: "Well, we return the VAT in full, and the VAT we charge the most is the VAT we pay. » What about the rest, Minister? And all the other taxes that the state is charging more with inflation? And all the other taxes, starting in fuel and passing through all income taxes, which have had a historic growth with inflation, with rising prices and with the crisis? None of this is what the State returns to taxpayers. The Socialist Government says: « We return VAT. » What about the rest? And what else are you charging historically? I gave you a number, Minister : 60 % more IRC. Tell me if it's true or not, because the Portuguese have to know this. Is it or not true that you're charging and you're saving, eventually, we don't know why? We don't know why, but they're saving. So what they are giving to the Portuguese is migalas, and it is important that this be clear. Mr Minister, there is also a question that remains to be answered: the supplement that the State will give, that the government will give to pensioners, does not leave the social security budget, leaves the State budget, and, therefore, if it leaves the State budget, that means that the social security budget remains intact. So if it remained intact, why is it that, despite this extraordinary support, the rules that are in force for the updating of pensions are not kept? I think it's easy for Mr. Minister to explain this, so easy, and people out there will realize that they're actually not getting any increase, nor are they getting any benefit. Finally, Mr Minister, on the Government's propaganda in respect of landlords and income restraint, we also made the accounts and I would like you to do so. Members of the Socialist Party knew this: being a landlord prevented from raising income—so it can only increase it by 2%—you know the result of the government's tax benefits? I'll tell you how much it is: it's 68 cents per 100 € of income. Now, tell a landlord there that he's going to earn another 68 cents next year. This is what the Portuguese have to know, it is not the conversation here of the Socialist Party. It's 68 cents. Today, all of you should bring a card to say « 68 cents» and go out with the card to say « 68 cents», which was for people to say: « What a shame, what a shame, 68 cents! » But this is what the gentlemen will have. Minister, is this true or not? With your tax deduction, will the gentlemen have 68 cents per 100 € of income? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u83	To present the Bills No. 265 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Reduction of electricity VAT to the reduced rate of 6 % ( amendment to the value added tax code approved by Decree-Law No 394 - B / 84 of 26 December ), 266 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Reduction of gas VAT to the reduced rate of 6 % ( amendment to the value added tax code approved by Decree-Law No 394 - B / 84 of 26 December ) and 271 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Encourages the acquisition of energy-efficient equipment ( amendment to list i of the value added tax code approved by Decree-Law No 394 - B / 84 ), Mr Bernardo Blanco, of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At a time of energy crisis, we cannot have the state to win with inflation at the expense of Portuguese purchasing power.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u85	By the way, companies! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u86	The state has already paid more than 5,000 million in tax revenue this year and can easily reach 8 billion. And as for returning this money to the Portuguese, lowering taxes, we've seen almost nothing. Mr. Minister of Finance comes here to play with the Portuguese. It returns 1 €, not enough, is a coffee, returns a coffee in electricity to the Portuguese, as if that were a large measure, in a country where the families are the ones who pay the most in energy to their purchasing power, in Europe. In the gas, in a country where we have 2 million poor, plus 2 million on the way to poverty — it is 40% of the population, almost half — the government, instead of immediately lowering the VAT of gas, automatically putting money in the Portuguese pocket, invents Solidary Bilha. The programme was a flop, with 2 % of missing families covered. Only 2% of the families. Therefore, Mr Minister, instead of coming here with these low-efficiency propaganda measures, the answer is simple: lower the energy taxes, put your hand on your conscience and take your hand out of the Portuguese pocket. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u87	To present the Resolution Project No 209 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — It proposes emergency measures to combat the increase in cost of living and the worsening of injustices and inequalities, I give the floor to Mr Alfredo Maia.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u88	Mr. President, Mr. Members of the Government, Mr. Members: The serious economic and social situation that affects workers and the people is not the result of a mere set of circumstances, nor is it resolved by provisional and even fraudulent measures. There are deep causes that need to be tackled with background measures and which discourage the expectation that the scenario of the coming times will be less serious. The government brings us a proposal summarily to casuistic, limited, transitional solutions and even compromising the incomes of pensioners and pensioners.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u89	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u90	That is how the reduction in VAT on electricity supply is very insufficient, and so is the single benefit for pensioners, making them receive, from January onwards, less than almost 3 % of what they legitimately expected.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u91	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u92	In recent days, the government, before the fair chorus of criticisms to obvious fraud with pensions, has led to the threat of overthrow of the guaranteed sustainability of social security from 26 to 13 years if the legal formula is applied. It's, as we know, a fallacy. It is, in fact, significant, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, that the Minister, although repeatedly urged by the Committee on Labour, Social Security and Inclusiveness to deliver to the Members the calculations that support this statement, has not done so.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u93	Of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u94	What is needed is measures that guarantee the strengthening of social security financing, with increased productive capacity, the creation of more jobs with fair rights and wages and new forms of social security financing, as the CFP has already proposed.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u95	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u96	It is in this sense that the draft resolution of the PCP is being discussed here, pointing to the update of the national minimum wage for 800 €, immediately, and to 850 €, in January. And that is also what we defend when we propose the general valuation of wages and careers in the administration and in the public sectors as in the private sector, together with the updating of pensions in value corresponding to the rate of accumulated inflation by August, that is, 6, 9 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u97	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u98	of what we already know about its intentions regarding the wage update of public administration workers, with expected reflections, indeed negative in the private sector, it seems clear that the Government intends to continue imposing on workers the continuation of the loss of purchasing power and the degradation of the quality of their lives.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u99	That's what's in sight!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u100	Mrs. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, unlike palliative measures such as those brought to us by the Government, which do not go to the root of the problems, do not interrupt price escalation, but stop wages and pensions, at the same time as leaving large profits inconceivable, the CFP defends effective substantive measures, to give some examples: the fixing and fixing of maximum prices for essential goods; the definitive award of free access to regulated gas and electricity tariffs; the fixing of 6 % of the VAT rate on gas and electricity and its universalisation; the reduction of food prices in large distribution and with the guarantee of fair prices for production; the fixing of a maximum income update ceiling equivalent to the value of 2022, i.e. 0, 43 %, and the freezing of income from the supported income system; and the fixing of a maximum spread by the General Deposit Board as an instrument for containing increases in housing charges. Go to the root of the problems, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it also means applying an extraordinary tax on excessive profits accumulated scandalously from large economic groups, especially in the energy sector and in the large distribution sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u101	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u102	I shall conclude, Mr President. Getting to the bottom of the problems also means transgressing the dictates of institutions such as the IMF ( International Monetary Fund ), which, although referring to taxation on unexpected profits, support for deprived families and temporary tax relief measures of inflation - temporary see well, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u103	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u104	Mr. President, I am really concluding. I ask the kindness of V.E.A. for a neophyte. The IMF, I said, will be warning that such measures should not compensate for the actual loss of income and that inflation cannot be met with wage increases. However, what the CFP advocates is precisely the effective recovery of wages and pensions as an indispensable condition for a dignified life and as an effective way to promote economic recovery.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u105	That's enough! That's enough! That's enough! You've spent your time a long time!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u106	That is the impracticable commitment of the CFP to the workers and to the people. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u107	Mr. Alfredo Maia, I would ask you, in future speeches, to return to the plenary the time bonus you have now. However, only the use of the word "neophythic" had merited some kindness. [[Rice from the PCP and from PS and PSD Members.]] I now give the floor to Mr Rui Tavares of the Free.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members: Is everything all right? Have you had time to talk? Did the parliamentary days in Leiria allow needles to be hit? It is that last week I heard very divergent things about pensions in this House and on television. I heard that pensioners would not lose their income. I heard Mr Eurico Brillante Dias, more or less at the same distance as we are now, saying that the government would monitor for 2023 because, if they lost their income, that would be corrected. And I heard Mr. Prime Minister on television saying that they were going to do it because it had to be, otherwise, social security was not sustainable.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u109	No, I didn't say they'd do it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u110	You understand what the right narrative to use in this case is. The Free will has a better idea and which heals these differences: to legislate that on the basis of the incidence of the calculation of pensions is included the extraordinary provision of October and to create a compromise, through a proposal for a budget amendment, so that in the first quarter of 2023 the Government may submit proposals for legislation for new sources of social security financing, i.e. to keep pensioners protected by the law and the social security more strengthened, in terms of new funding. in the same way, I see the government saying that it sees with interest the taxation of excessive and unjustified profits, but then always spilling into any detail, there is always something that does not work well. I am sure that, in the proposal presented by the Left Block, in the proposal that other parties present, they will always find a detail they do not agree with. Well, the Free will not only present proposals in the field of specialty, but also present a draft resolution that will simply say the following: that the Government legislate on excessive profits taxes. If you do not like the details of other proposals, then you present a proposal on excessive profits taxation and we will see who votes in favour and who votes against. Of course, the Free will also present proposals for 6 % in energy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u111	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u112	I conclude by saying that the Minister for Finance said that this was the biggest programme in the world. That is, but it is also the biggest crisis in our democracy, so the programme is not yet enough, we still need to go further.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u113	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Hugo Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing today a government bill and some opposition initiatives aimed at combating inflation and at mitigating the rise in energy prices. A reading of the proposals made by the opposition concludes three things. Firstly, it is concluded that many of these proposals are late. Secondly, it is concluded that VV. They are distracted by the measures that the government has announced and implemented in the energy sector. [[Protests of PSD, CH and IL Members.]] Thirdly, it is concluded that, despite rising energy prices, the fruit of war, Portugal is the country in which the price of energy has decreased in Europe. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This reality must - firstly - and it costs you to listen, I know it costs! — to the governments of the Socialist Party who have and continue to have the energy and vision to invest and wager in the production of renewable energy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u115	What about purchasing power?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u116	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today, 70% of our electricity is consumed from our natural resources, which gives us greater energy sovereignty, in relation to other countries and the dependence of Russia's gas on other countries in Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u117	We never had one!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u118	In addition, if we have been an example in betting and investing in renewable energy in Europe, we have also been the beacon for the European Commission on the measures that the Socialist Party Government has implemented in mitigating energy prices. An example of this is the reduction in the average rate of VAT from 13 % to 6 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u119	It's 1 €!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u120	Mr Ventura, I do not know whether you have already studied this Iberian mechanism, which reduces the turnover by 16 % and prevents excessive gains from renewable energy production companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u121	of Spanish companies! Only from the Spanish!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u122	Today, we have opened the regulated market for electricity and gas, which, for example, opens the door to more than 1 million and a half of consumers, who can enter the regulated gas market and who, in the regulated market for electricity and gas, will pay less, from October onwards, than what they are now paying.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u123	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u124	We have implemented a maximum ceiling for bottle gas, which will cover more than 2 million people.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u125	All right! [[Mr Pedro Pinto's protests.]] We have introduced the extraordinary contribution of the energy sector, which represents a revenue of EUR 125 million to the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u126	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u127	What? Oh, my God! What extraordinary contribution? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u128	And we also reduced the ISP in oil products. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that it is difficult for you to hear this, but the reality is that the Socialist Party and the Government of the Socialist Party receive no lessons from anyone in terms of mitigating energy prices and combating inflation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u129	But what extraordinary contribution? Oh, my God! It wasn't the PS who introduced it, it was the right! Excuse me! What a can!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u130	The Bureau made a request for clarification for Mr Hugo Pires. To make this request for clarification, Mr Nuno Carvalho of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u131	Mr President, Mr Hugo Pires, I think the honourable Member is — and it is normal — to be — in the same mindset as Mr Minister for Finance. This mindset is very simple: "It's all right with the government's accounts and we don't want to know about the family accounts; it's all right with the government's accounts and we don't want to know about the business accounts. Mr. Deputies, I give you something new. It's not all right with the country. It doesn't matter all that talk you're having here, when you point to the period when you put the troika here, and we've got the troika out of here. during this period, you put here the troika and the Minister of Finance, who was in the government at that time, proposed a PEC (Stability and Growth Programme) IV, signed, or wanted to sign, a memorandum of the troika and wanted to do exactly what you are now practicing, which is a cut in pensions. [[The Minister for Finance's laughter.]] Mr Hugo Pires of the Socialist Party, is he able to respond with the laughter we have heard from the Minister of Finance, which is a laugh that will cost the Portuguese much when they go to the supermarket? Mr. Minister of Finance, this is a laugh that will cost the Portuguese a lot when they go to the gas bomb! That's the laugh that costs money to the Portuguese! The matter is serious, Minister for Finance. The matter is serious and you are the face of what costs the Portuguese. I see that, in fact, to you, with this position, this seems to be indifferent. I'm talking about family accounts, I'm talking about business accounts. Be serious about what's going on. Austerity is here, you're promoting it and you're cutting it. If you want to continue to answer with the past, it is a sign that, at present, you cannot build anything for the future. More than that, Minister : be serious about cutting pensions at least once. There is a cake that you could give — and you should! — this year, however, they are taking half of this cake and giving it this year and the other half will be transferred to next year. This is ration of pensions. It's not to increase, it's to reason. We're back in the ration, and the gentlemen are bringing it in. Mr. Minister of Finance, you and Mr. Prime Minister are the face of this ration, they are the face of austerity. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u132	Mr Hugo Oliveira has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u133	Mr President, Mr Nuno Carvalho made a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u134	It was a request for clarification. There is a right of reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u135	I'm sorry. Here is an irrefutable proof of how I benefit one party to the detriment of others. [[PS Members' laughs.]] Mr Hugo Pires, I am sorry, because I have forgotten that you have not only the right to respond to the request for clarification made to you by Mr Nuno Carvalho. With an apology from Mr Hugo Oliveira, I give the floor to Mr Hugo Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u136	Mr President, Mr Nuno Carvalho, very quickly, just wanted to recall the unsuspecting Dr. António Lobo Xavier, who in 2011 said a very simple sentence: « Whoever wanted to bring the troika to Portugal was the PSD and the CDS. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD, CH and IL protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u137	Thus, the Assembly of the Republic enters the twilight zone!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u138	Now, yes, to speak on behalf of the PSD, Mr Hugo Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The context of the energy crisis and the effects of inflation require more action and less propaganda, more strategy and less open measures. The Government is always ready to present appeal slogans, such as « First Families », to conceal delays in the adoption of measures and above all to hide their insufficiency. In an interview with RTP ( Radio and Television of Portugal ), last week, he ran away from the truth to Mr. Minister of the Environment when he said that, and I quote, « until we have the advantage to do after others, to justify delays in adoption and measures of saving and energy efficiency ». It is perhaps the most basic dimension and it should have been the starting point for dealing with this crisis: saving energy, reducing consumption, helping families and businesses in the purchase of more efficient equipment and putting the service of the State to reduce their own revenue. But, according to Mr Minister, we are only able to do so after we see how others do. If families were really first, we would have reopened support for the Environment Fund by strengthening the allocation of the more sustainable Building Support Programme to combat energy poverty. Nor were we the first to lower the VAT on electricity, quite the contrary. This bill reduces the VAT rate to 6 % and affects the first 100 kWh of electricity consumed each month for the lowest contracted power, even if this is extended in the case of numerous families. This tax ceiling will eventually translate into a severe energy poverty, especially in winter, in the face of the problems of national building or isolation, which forces many families to resort to heating, often with great consumption. In practice, we have the government to tell families to buy blankets and blankets to warm up, if they do not want to exceed the limit of consumption from which the bill will fire. Families that replaced heat heaters and gas stoves with more efficient electrical equipment will, of course, see the value of invoices increased, being penalized for making the energy transition. With this government nothing is simple, clear and direct. There is always a trick, a clause, an extra restriction, an added difficulty, a particularly complex mechanism, but people prefer simple and effective measures, which they can understand, taken as soon as possible. And we haven't even talked about another slogan that we could easily apply: « last companies ». They were waiting for the government to agree for their tragedy, with exponential costs, inconspicuous invoices, to require a revitalization rather than palliative care or migalas, as we saw yesterday. For this government, energy policy is at the service of fiscal policy. It is a source of revenue that can then be redistributed more to taste and in a discretionary manner. at this time of crisis, we need to change the direction and put fiscal policy to the service of the energy strategy to protect consumers. The PSD defends the low tax burden, in particular VAT, for the minimum rate, electricity, gas and fuel. We knew that the Government would soon say, as we have heard, that it has already taken far-reaching measures, such as the Iberian electricity mechanism, the transition of consumers to the regulated market, gas, or the equivalent reduction of VAT in the case of fuels, but Spain lowered the electricity VAT from 10 % to 5 % in June, while beginning the application of the Iberian mechanism — it was not expected of its results. What is also at stake is that we have clearer, more robust and stable measures, rather than constantly moving into budgetary procedure and making ad hoc amendments. It is a permanent instability when the Portuguese want predictability and tax rules in energy that help to withstand the crises. It seems that we have a short-circuit government, with internal conflicts, acting intermittently, with blackouts, at a time when political coordination, determination and concrete answers are required for the problems affecting the whole Portuguese society. Finally, at the beginning of the week, when it rained intensely, it was repeatedly heard in the radios the campaign of fighting fires, but I looked at the road and only saw water! I say this to understand how far the government is from reality. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u140	Mr Bernardo Blanco, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u141	Mr President, I was just about to ask for honor, but I didn't, because the Minister of Finance said two things. First, he accused the Liberal Initiative of wanting to play in the Stock Exchange with social security money — it seems that the Minister of Finance does not know that the Social Security Stabilisation Fund already has 20 % of its portfolio in the Stock Exchange! The Portuguese state is a shareholder of companies such as Louis Vuitton, EasyJet or Coca-Cola. It's a hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u142	But nobody loses their pensions!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u143	And 50% is in Portuguese debt!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u144	I shall finish very quickly, Mr President, just to say that Mr. Minister of Finance lied, and I quote, addressing the bench of the Liberal Initiative: "The only thing he did was cut. » In the Liberal Initiative we never proposed it and never did it because, as you know, we were never in government. The Minister for Finance has just arrived and is already known as « the king of the courts ». [[Applause from the IL.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u145	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u146	Mr President, very briefly, to tell the Minister that I think he will still have time to intervene... [[Protests by the Minister of Infrastructure and Housing and IL Counter-Protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u147	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I request silence to hear Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u148	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, I know that you still have time to answer, and I would like to ask you — since the Socialist Party has prevented this situation from being heard at all — if you have anything to say to Portugal about the hiring of the former VAT information director. I think it is today, in Parliament, the right time to ask you this question so that you can answer, since, certainly not because of you, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has prevented your call to Parliament to be questioned about the hiring of Sérgio Figueiredo for finance...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u149	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u150	... and from his statements, which did not happen; statements that the country expected to happen, but that never came, of a parliamentary group that never committed itself and of a Prime Minister who walked away from the process and pretended that he knew nothing. Believing in your good faith, Mr Minister for Finance, I think you owe a word to the Portuguese about this contract and what it could mean for the public record and for the Ministry of Finance. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u151	The Bureau no longer registers for interventions, so we are closing the debate. To that end, you have the floor by the Government, the Minister of Finance, Fernando Medina. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: From this debate it is clear the very uncomfortable of the opposition benches, with the effectiveness, size, depth and opportunity of the support programme for Portuguese families. And it is clear because for this debate, what the oppositions have brought was simply, firstly, the omission — I repeat, the omission! — any reference to the most important measures in the support programme. The fact is that, with the approval of this support programme in October, each Portuguese in the middle class and the most disadvantaged classes, whether employed or unemployed, whether benefiting from social benefits or having an occasional income, will receive 125 € net. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u153	It's 34 cents a day!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u154	And every child and young person, regardless of their family's income, should be assigned a value of 50 €. I understand the discomfort, for this reason: in October, a middle-class family with two children will receive, in liquid terms, in their bank account, €350 to be able to use where well needed and where well understood, to fight the increase in prices that we are all living. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Nothing was heard about this, nothing referred to the opposition benches.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u155	We don't have time!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u156	They presented criticisms of the support for electricity VAT, not only forgetting that the value is EUR 90 million but also that, in electricity, we have the Iberian market working, and yet forgetting what is the fundamental measure, that is, a family with two children will receive, in October, € 350 net in their bank account. This is a measure of the greatest importance in supporting families at the moment they need the most, and, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the fair return of the State by the additional VAT revenue it has raised, and which is now returned to families, in the best way and at the best time, in order to be able to deal with what they need.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u157	What is the additional VAT revenue?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u158	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there has also been a lack of courage on the part of the oppositions to admit a measure which is absolutely essential for pensioners. Where the gentlemen are. Members invented the word « cut », which the government has to show is the following: in recent years, the formula has always been exceeded to benefit pensioners more from what would result from the application of the formula; we now make extraordinary support in 2022 ; we will make an increase in 2023 ; and we will fully comply with what would result from the formula between the support and the increase in 2023. That is why it is very simple to answer. The gentlemen. Members can say what they want, but pensioners remember very well that the cuts in pensions existed when you were in government. With us there have always been increases in pensions and with us there will continue to be increases in pensions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and IL protests.]] Those who devalue as we are taking today to dialogue with any pensioner, who, instead of seeing this additional increase diluted in the increase of next year, month by month, will have this direct increase already in October, at the time when it needs most.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u159	Yeah, in January you don't have to!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u160	This is the fundamental truth of the support programme we are presenting here and it is the fundamental truth of what we are doing most to directly support the Portuguese. Of course, the fundamental differences which the right-wing banks wanted to put on the subject of pensions have been raised in this debate. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you think someone forgets what you did when you were in government, which was the court—yes! — pensions?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u161	We weren't in the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u162	It is those who argue, in the PSD bench and in others, that the collective, solidarity public pension system should not exist and that the risk of pensions should be on each individual, in individual capitalization systems. [[Protests by IL Member João Cotrim Figueiredo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u163	This is not our case, Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u164	That is why the speech that many use here is a certain hypocrisy of concern, because what they would have done was a total individualization of risks and that, yes, in several countries where it was used, caused effective breaks in pensioners' income.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u165	Mr. Minister, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u166	I conclude, Mr. President. It is in this way, with responsibility, with effectiveness, at the right time, that we are supporting families when they need it most. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by CH Member Pedro dos Santos Frazão.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u167	We thus conclude our consideration of agenda item 1. We turn to point 2, which concerns the discussion of motions for resolutions Nos 2 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — proposes to the Assembly of the Republic the approval for ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of the Republic of Finland, signed in Brussels on 5 July 2022, and 3 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — proposes to the Assembly of the Republic the approval for ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of the Kingdom of Sweden, signed in Brussels on 5 July 2022. Mrs. Members, record the presence of the Ambassadors of Finland and Sweden to attend this debate. The Government has the floor of Mr. Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation, Francisco André, to present the motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On 24 February 2022, Russia invaded Ukraine in a barbarous and violent manner. He did so in total disrespect for Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity and in violation of international law. This deliberate attack on Ukraine and all the war actions of aggression which have since been committed by the Russian authorities against the Ukrainian people constitute a flagrant and gross violation of the Charter of the United Nations. Russia chose war to the detriment of dialogue, chose war instead of diplomacy, chose war against the principles of international order. Portugal and the Portuguese have been, unequivocally and from the first hour, next to Ukraine in this hour of pain and suffering. We support and will continue to support Ukraine: at the political level, in the international forums in which we participate; at the humanitarian level, through the reception in Portugal of Ukrainian refugees; and at the financial and military levels, supporting Ukraine in its war effort. We cannot watch this aggression indifferent to the freedom and sovereignty of Ukraine and to the abuses and violations of the rights, freedoms and guarantees of the Ukrainian people. A people who have shown much courage and determination before the aggressor. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Russia's illegal, unprovoked and unjustifiable military aggression in Ukraine is the most serious attack on peace and security in Europe since World War II. The images and stories that bring us the media show a dantesque picture. The path of destruction is growing at this time. Thousands of people are already killed and wounded, even among the civilian population, which we deeply regret. The human suffering and the social cost of this war do not seem to end. In addition to direct victims, the consequences of this war are clearly evident in rising energy prices or increasing food insecurity worldwide, with a greater impact on the most vulnerable countries in the global South. But this invasion also has profound and lasting impacts on the geopolitical level of Europe, which will be extended in the future. Security perception in European countries has fundamentally changed and new models of solidarity and collective security are being equationed. It is the case of Finland and Sweden, neighbouring Russia, which, in the face of the threat and in reaction to the violation of Ukraine's national sovereignty, have been forced to reconsider the bases of their security policies. Therefore, as a result of a broad national consensus, they decided to apply for membership of NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ). The Portuguese Government has since first supported this intention of these two countries, Portugal's partners in the European Union, with a solid democratic, neutral and pacifist tradition. The accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO will contribute to the consolidation of the Alliance, as one of the basic structures for security and defence, and is in line with national objectives in the field of foreign policy. This accession will also allow the Alliance's defensive capacity to be extended on the European continent, more specifically in the Baltic Sea region and in northern Europe. The accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO will strengthen the complementarity relationship in the field of security and defence between NATO and the European Union and the strengthening of NATO's European pillar. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today a decision by the Assembly of the Republic on the ratification by the Portuguese State of the accession protocols of Finland and Sweden to the Atlantic Alliance is expected to have 32 members. The Government's position is clear: we can only support the accession of these countries to our Alliance by strengthening our European security and security and by defending our values. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u169	The Bureau shall not record any request for clarification. Turning to the speeches, I now give the floor to Mr. Marcos Perestrello of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u170	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let me begin by greeting the Ambassadors of Sweden and Finland, who are attending this parliamentary work. According to estimates by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, by May 1st 2022 more than 5, 5 million Ukrainians had fled their country and more than 7 million fled the war to other cities, villages or villages in Ukraine. Imagine the ladies. Members of the entire population of Portugal on the run: they are even more people. Others, who have not been able to escape, exposed to the horrors of war, are today among the thousands and thousands of human beings killed, wounded, imprisoned and deported. Cities, villages and villages devastated by the bomb. Productive systems destroyed. Critical energy, water and sewage infrastructures attacked and destroyed. Rape and beatings. Torture and murder. Effective threat and insecurity of a nuclear nature, totally irresponsible. Hunger and misery. Atrocity and war crimes, which come to the fore as the Russian army is being expelled from the places it passed. This is the result of the invasion of Ukraine by Russia and which is still continuing today. And it is to prevent the same from happening in their countries which Finland and Sweden have requested to join NATO. Sweden and Finland do not do so lightly. In this way, they put an end to 200 years of neutrality in the case of Sweden since the end of the Napoleonic War, and, in the case of Finland, 70 years of neutrality coming from the end of the Second World War. They experienced the war and they didn't like it. They took their neutrality so seriously that only after the end of the Cold War did they achieve their accession to the European Union. Sweden and Finland have always taken their neutrality seriously because they have always trusted that neutrality would guarantee them security, but Russia's actions in the last decade have broken this trust, and Swedish and Finnish feel no safer today alone. NATO shall maintain in accordance with Article 10. that of its constituent Treaty, an open door policy for countries that want to join it and share the same principles and values with it. Principles and values that are ours, principles and values of democracy and the rule of law, multilateralism and international law. That is why when adopting these two resolutions with a view to entering Sweden and Finland into NATO, this Parliament reinforces its commitment to peace in Europe and to the collective security of the whole Euro-Atlantic area, but also to human rights, democracy and solidarity with the States that respect each other, which are free to choose their future without interference from third States, and who fight for freedom against oppression. A historic step that Portugal has the pride of following once again in defending the objectives and principles of the United Nations Charter, peace among peoples, safeguarding freedom, democratic principles and international law. The war, initiated by Russia, led to a joint reaction of Western democracies which, between the aggressor and the aggressor, did not hesitate to stand alongside those who are being attacked. And, contrary to what Moscow’s narrative says — widely repeated by this world outside several chambers of resonance — was not the economic sanctions imposed on Russia that caused the energy and food crisis in Europe and in the world. It was the war that triggered the crisis. Sanctions do not even apply to energy or cereals. It was the war that generated destruction, fear, panic. It was the naval blockades that prevented the export of cereals. It was Russia that decided unilaterally to interrupt the supply of gas to Europe. It was the war that brought the crisis, it wasn't the sanctions. On the contrary, sanctions want to end the war. Portugal has supported Ukraine without hesitation, with financial resources, with humanitarian support, with refugees, with tons of light and heavy weapons. Portugal knows which side it is on: on the side of justice, democracy, international law, the right to self-determination of peoples and their right to choose their destiny. Portugal and Europe are suffering the consequences of this war, but it is not a suffering that compares to that of the Ukrainian people, who pay with their blood the heroic resistance of those who want to own their destiny. This unjustified, brutal and unprovoked invasion of Russia into Ukraine is causing profound changes in the international order.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u171	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u172	I shall terminate immediately, Mr President. The first political sign of these amendments in the international order is precisely this strengthening of the Atlantic Alliance. The ratification of the accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO is just one more step in a long way towards the construction of a new Euro-Atlantic space security architecture, in which Portugal has to continue to participate and play an active role. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr. President. [[P.S. and PS.D. applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u173	Mr Rodrigo Saraiva, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Let me begin by saying a special compliment to the Ambassadors of Sweden and Finland and by thanking them for the decision they have taken, and that is what brings us here. The proposal for accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO marks a turning point in the Transatlantic Alliance. These two countries, which neither during the Cold War felt their safety in danger to the point of abandoning their status of neutrality, feel their security threatened as never in 70 years. It was thanks to a sudden turn in the public opinions of these democracies that their governments and parliaments freely decided to join our Alliance under the coercion of nothing or anyone who did not threaten the threat of an imperial aggression. It was by legitimate impulses and sovereign wills, according to the Alliance's ever-ending criteria. As liberals, we see ourselves in the momentum, genuineness and solidarity of the European peoples in the reaction and action to defend Ukraine, in defence of freedom and democracy, and in an unprecedented response from European countries and institutions. The Liberal Initiative supports and welcomes our new transatlantic partners. Its accession is good news for the Portuguese, as it ensures that Vladimir Putin will not advance a millimeter on the Scandinavian peninsula, thus compromising the integrity of the European Union and the stability of our allies. Continuing the good news, we have been watching one of the biggest turning points in the war in Ukraine last week, where a Ukrainian counter-offensive released at an outrageous speed about 6,000 km2 from its territory. The forces of Putin are today in the retreat of dozens of cities around Kharkiv, giving rise to more and more Ukrainian flags—and the hymn to be singing with pride—which begin to be choked again at their place of law, within the borders assured by the Budapest Memorandum, which are 1991, and not others with which some still live. It will always be worth remembering, in this House, that this recent success was born not only from the bravery and cold blood of Ukrainians, but also from the support, from material and financial, to the training of the West. It is also thanks to the use of our « arsenal of democracy», as Franklin Roosevelt called almost a century ago, that Ukraine not only failed to give in to Russian aggression, as it begins to show a surprising counter-offensive capacity. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As much as we can welcome the good news from the front of war and the entry of our Nordic friends into our Alliance of Democrats, I cannot fail to note that 14 of the 30 NATO Member States have already ratified their accession in the first half of July this year. Portugal, to vary, is in the league of the last six missing to complete the accession process of Sweden and Finland. It's a shame, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present, that our membership is so slow. I think we will never know the reasons for this delay—if it is inert, if it is bad will—but I know that, for one, it is for another, Portugal and our allies deserve better. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u175	For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: I would like to congratulate the Ambassadors of Sweden and Finland, and at the moment I would like to share some comments. The NAP strongly defends the right to self-determination of peoples and the right of every people to choose their own destiny. Today, that is what we are discussing, not NATO. We are, and have been, in line with condemnation when Putin's Russia invaded Ukraine, committed barbarous war crimes and wanted to draw the Ukrainian people's decision on their own future. This is not just an attack on Ukraine, it is an attack on all of us, democratic countries and defenders of the democratic rule of law. It is also an attack on neighbouring countries and, in order to ensure their freedom, security and independence, Sweden and Finland have decided, in exercising their right to self-determination, to accede to NATO, and the NAP can only respect this decision. In fact, this courageous decision is a free and sovereign decision of these countries, which can be a brake on Putin's imperialist attempts and a guarantee of strengthening peace in the Baltic. This is a decision that gives the Alliance a dimension that allows it greater commitment to defending human rights and democratic values even in combating climate change. Finally, I would like to leave a brief, very brief reference, because I know that I am beyond my time. We have been in the interparliamentary dialogue this week on sexual and reproductive rights. We had the opportunity to hear, in the first person, the testimony of the Members of Finland and Ukraine, who spoke of the fear they feel about the offenses of Putin and also of the many girls and women who have been raped and raped. For this reason, today, in full respect for these people, we can only welcome Sweden and Finland for all the courageous acts which, together with Ukraine, have carried out to defend the replacement of democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u177	For an intervention, Mr Pedro Pessanha, from the Czech Republic, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I congratulate the Ambassadors of Sweden and Finland, whose presence today honors us very much. After the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991, both Finland and Sweden approached the European Union and became full members in 1995. Despite this step, both countries chose to remain militaryly neutral. This accession now from Sweden and Finland to NATO is undoubtedly a reason for celebration. In today's day, it is inevitable that NATO defends and closes in itself the values of the Western world, especially democracy and freedom. However, security and defence do not have to do with universal values alone. The accession of Sweden and Finland is also an extension of the borders of this freedom and a strengthening of the capacities of its collective defence. It should be remembered that this is not a mere adherence to the universal values of freedom and democracy that I have referred to. This occurs in a context where the world has become more dangerous as several powers challenge the so-called "world order". The war of Ukraine is only the tip of the iceberg regarding the instability of the world geopolitical in which we live. in this context, the accession of Sweden and Finland to NATO should be understood as a voluntary choice of the defence of Western values and way of life, as well as a clear sign of the increase in the level of threat to these values and way of life. The collective defense works in a similar way to the table of any family. All members shall contribute as far as their possibilities and capabilities are concerned. Although we are celebrating the accession of Sweden and Finland to NATO, we cannot fail to say that Portugal is not contributing as it should, in accordance with the terms of the Treaty, to the sustainability of NATO capacities. in a world that is clearly more dangerous, where the accession of Sweden and Finland to NATO is proof of this, Portugal should not only count on the contribution of the other members of the collective to its defence. Portugal, in order to be a respected member in the international scene, must have the appropriate relevance to its economic and especially historical dimension. This should translate into equipping and motivating its Armed Forces, either with state-of-the-art equipment, or into well-trained and motivated human resources. In conclusion, he welcomed the entry of these new members into the NATO family, in the hope that this accession will contribute to economic peace and stability in Europe and the world. We also hope that Portugal will honour with dignity the commitments it has with NATO and now also with these new members. [[Applause from the CH and from the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u179	Thank you very much, Mr President, for scrupulously respecting the time that has been given to you. Mr António Prôa, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Ambassadors here present, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese Parliament is having a historic moment today. The ratification of the Protocols to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accessions of the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden today is much more than a formal act. Today, the Assembly of the Republic, through the approval of the accession of these two countries to NATO, will convey to the world a message on Portugal's commitment to the common values of the construction of peace and the defence of freedom and democracy. On behalf of the PSD, I welcome the Ambassadors here present, expressing their support and welcoming the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden in their accession to the Atlantic Alliance, of which Portugal is a founding member. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The North Atlantic Treaty Organization emerges after the end of World War II, in a context of a global geopolitical reality marked by the emergence of a communist bloc in Europe, whose threat to the values of freedom and democracy led to the Alliance of Western Non-Communist Countries through the Washington Treaty of 1949. It was this Transatlantic Political and Military Alliance, founded on the values of freedom, democracy, the defence of peace and respect for the Charter of the United Nations, which has ensured, for more than 50 years, peace in Europe — the longest period of peace this continent has known. NATO was able to reinvent itself with the end of the Cold War. Against the expectations of some, he not only survived as he demonstrated his need. From the containment of the Soviet totalitarian threat, through support for new European democracies, to the fight against terrorism, NATO has been a central pillar of the fight for the values we believe in, implementing its role as a vector of peace and stability. Without hesitation, we can say that in the present and future NATO plays an irreplaceable role in the common defence, in the face of today's threats and threats that can and should be anticipated in the global context. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Europe lives times of uncertainty and threat to stability and security caused by the unacceptable and barbarous invasion of the Russian Federation to Ukraine. Let us be clear, this is an attack on peace in Europe and on the humanist values that we have built and defended with our allies. I invite everyone to reflect on the meaning of these new accessions. Finland and Sweden, even with the threat of the then very close Eastern bloc, always opted, almost militantly, for not joining NATO, building their own defense mechanisms. What has caused these two countries to change their willingness to join NATO? What has changed in the conviction of your people? Certainly, the threat of Russia ; but I risk saying, too, the increase in the intensity of this threat, in view of what was felt during the Cold War. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden believe that the best way to respond to their security and defence needs will be to adhere to NATO. The political solidarity and collective defence that characterize the Atlantic Alliance are the foundations for us to support, without hesitation, this enlargement that is desired by the countries that will now join NATO. The enlargement now taking place also means strengthening the Alliance in the capacity to fulfil its role as guarantor of international order. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We live in uncertain times with threats to peace and stability in Europe, some who return and others who are new and who endanger the well-being and security of Portuguese people. NATO is a key instrument in national defence. There cannot be any illusion or doubt about this. Today, with the vote in this Parliament, it will be clear who puts the Portuguese first and who is obsessed with NATO and the allies of Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u181	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u182	Portugal must clearly and consequently affirm its commitment to strengthening the Alliance. It is therefore time for the country to commit itself to strengthening resources for security and defence. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what is at stake is not a small thing: it is the ability to defend the society we build and the humanist values we share with our allies. Freedom, democracy, tolerance and justice. [[PSD and CH applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u183	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we regret that decades of neutrality from two countries have ended up in Putin's hands, that decades of neutrality, the guarantor of peace, have suffered as a side effect of an illegal invasion of Russia against Ukraine, a condemnable invasion, without « ses » or « why ». I take my words very well: to regret, because the accession of Sweden and Finland to NATO does not come for peace, nor does it make an organization responsible for wars as abominable and unjust as that of Yugoslavia, Afghanistan, Iraq or Syria. [[Congratulations from BE.]] It does not transform into a dove of peace an organization which has received dictatorships and dictators within it, which has been responsible for coups against democracies and which has been responsible for terrorist attacks of false flag. So no: the Left Block could never be in favour of expanding an organization that knows no pigeons, it only knows bombs called peace bombs. We can regret history, but we cannot change it, and the history of NATO is the history of war and aggression against peoples. Having said this, I do not ask the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, a historical assessment of NATO, which is based on its own convictions and of the subsidiaries of each Member and of each Party, which I would like to ask the Members. Members and Members of Parliament are speaking on the terms of the accession agreement between Finland and Sweden to NATO in this conscious exercise. I also ask you to reply not to me, but to a Swedish Member who fought against Daesh and asked the following in the Swedish Parliament: "Is this not a betrayal by the Swedish Government, the NATO States, the NATO Secretary-General, by deceiving an entire people who have freed the whole world of the Islamic State, especially the thousands of women who have sacrificed themselves to free the Daesh world? Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u185	This Member's party has lost the elections!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u186	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in your conscience, are the acclaimed Western values and the struggle of democracy against autocracy compatible with that agreement? How does each Member vote for this enlargement knowing that what supports it is an agreement for the extradition of Kurdish refugees and for the sale of weapons to Turkey? Where does each Member fit the acclaimed Western values, or at least his own values, knowing that this agreement delivers Kurdish refugees, who today are judged in security, prison and torture? Where is peace and democracy left when this agreement authorizes Turkey to terrorize more than 100,000 Kurds living in Sweden and who know that their fate and that the fate of the Kurdish people in Turkey already has more than 2,000 villages destroyed, civilian bombings, executions, torture and prisons? To what values does this agreement that sells the acclaimed heroes of war against Islamic barbaria to a dictatorial regime? And where is the right of this people to self-determination and not to be bombarded in their projects, also secular, multi-religious projects, with regard to gender equality, democratic projects, which today are the only ones that exist in that territory and which Turkey has promised to destroy?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u187	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u188	I will finish, Mr. President. How can the NATO sultan decide on the fate of a people welcomed by another sovereign state? How can the NATO sultan decide what NATO is? How can the NATO sultan decide what Europe is, what is peace in Europe, and what is Europe's security strategy? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u189	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u190	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Ambassadors of Finland and Sweden: A few years ago President Macron of France said NATO was in brain death and President Trump of the United States was obsolete. Indeed, the great cause of this renewed relevance of NATO, which we are discussing today, is called Vladimir Putin and his war on Ukraine. What is at stake is not whether or not NATO should exist, or whether we prefer enhanced defence and security cooperation in a democratic Europe to subordinate the interests of the United States. What is at issue is not even whether Portugal should be in NATO, or not in NATO, or whether it should leave. What is at stake here is whether NATO gets better or worse with two countries of neutralist, diplomatic, constructive international law, human rights and the rule of law in that organization or not. What is at stake here is whether NATO is better, or worse, with two countries of neutralist, diplomatic tradition, constructive of international law, respecters of human rights and the rule of law, in that organization. What is at stake here is how we could deny the entry of two countries when Portugal is within the organization and if there is no hypocrisy in telling these two countries that, by not proposing the exit of Portugal at the same time in this House, they cannot enter, exercising their self-determination. Because it cannot be by self-determination only when it does work, and the Swedish and Finnish people also have their own self-determination, which we must respect. Looking at the diplomatic corps of these two countries and the Ambassadors, I say that we know that there are still courts in Stockholm and Helsinki and that historically they have been pro-curds, but we hope that, in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and in all other international forums, the self-determination of the Kurdish people—that the Free will will support and will continue to support—keep on the table.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u191	That's what's on the table!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u192	This is because the worst prize we could give Erdogan would be voting as he wants. It was Erdogan who wanted to prevent the entry of Sweden and Finland into NATO and cannot be said that, being indifferent to that entry or wanting to close the door, favouring Mr Erdogan, if he is against the sultan of NATO, in Turkey.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u193	The honourable Member has to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u194	I shall conclude, Mr President. The Free is in favour of a democratic Europe with enhanced cooperation. For NATO, in two years, it is enough to change the tenant in the White House, to return to the same irrelevance from where it came from.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u195	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u196	But what is at stake today is to receive with open arms two countries of the European Union, which we respect and which we want them to be able to count on the same protections that Portugal has.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u197	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u198	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to the proposals for accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO, which are currently being discussed in the Assembly of the Republic, we believe that they do not only contribute to promoting security in Europe as they represent another step in increasing tension in Europe and at the international level. This is a new element of confrontation and escalation of militarism and war, contrary to the interests of peoples and a path of peace.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u199	Has Ukraine invaded Russia? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u200	With accession to NATO, Finland and Sweden abdicate their neutral position. It is recalled that between 1973 and 1975 the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe was held in Helsinki, Finland, which defined principles, which were enshrined in its Final Act, of utmost importance for ensuring collective peace and security in Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u201	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u202	It is also recalled that one of the factors contributing to the outbreak of the war in Ukraine was the continued process of NATO enlargement to the east, in Europe, accompanied by the advance of manoeuvres and the installation of military equipment that is ever closer to the borders of the Russian Federation. The first NATO enlargement, following the dismemberment of the Soviet Union, occurred in 1999 and was accompanied by NATO bombings against Yugoslavia, which for the first time brought war on Europe after World War II and imposed the breakdown of Yugoslavia.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u203	Exactly! There are those who want to forget! [[PSD MP Protests António Proa.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u204	It is stressed that the five NATO enlargements since 1999 have opposed commitments made since the end of the German Democratic Republic and their integration into the Federal Republic of Germany in 1990.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u205	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u206	Our position on this new enlargement of NATO is reflected in Article 7. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, which states that, and I quote, « Portugal advocates (...) the general disarmament, simultaneous and controlled, the dissolution of the political-military blocs and the establishment of a collective security system, with a view to creating an international order capable of ensuring peace and justice in relations between peoples. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD MP Protests António Proa.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u207	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u208	We do not forget that NATO was used to support the fascist dictatorship in Portugal... [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u209	...and to its colonial war and to threaten the young Portuguese democracy, in the full April Revolution. [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u210	It hurts, doesn't it hurt?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u211	Mrs. Member, I'm asking for a moment. Mrs. Members, Mrs Paula Santos has every right to express her position, with the attention of the House. Please proceed, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u212	Thank you very much, Mr President, I will continue, reiterateing that we do not forget that NATO not only supported the fascist dictatorship in Portugal but also threatened the young Portuguese democracy in the middle of the April Revolution. [[Exactly!]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u213	It's shocking that, to promote... [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u214	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to listen to your colleagues with the same respect your colleagues have to hear from you. I take advantage of this interruption to inform Mrs Paula Santos that she has a request for clarification. Madam Member, please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u215	It is shocking that, in order to promote militarism and war, more and more billions are mobilized when, in order to increase wages and pensions and strengthen social rights, the necessary and urgent financial means are not mobilized. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u216	The CFP advocates a path that promotes peace and cooperation among peoples, against escalation of war, the arms race, the increase of military spending, against authoritarianism and the promotion of fascist and fascist forces, by the end of the political-military blocs, for general disarmament. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u217	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u218	Mr. André Ventura asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u219	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u220	If it is an application for an appeal to the Bureau, it shall be preceded by a request for clarification. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u221	Mr President, it is an inquiry to ask you, as President of the Assembly of the Republic, about when you drew the attention of the Arrival to the common civilizational ground of our democracy, if that does not include saying that the alliance where Portugal is inserted is a fascist alliance. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u222	Either he's deaf or he's a liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u223	Clearly, it was not an interpellation about the conduct of the work, so that we can move forward. As regards the request for clarification submitted by Mr Pedro Pessanha, I would like to ask the Parliamentary Group of Arrival that time be given for the reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u224	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u225	So it's an intervention!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u226	Since it cannot, the request for clarification is transformed into an intervention. Please, Mr. Pedro Pessanha.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u227	Mr President, I was really shocked by the statements made by the Member of the Communist parliamentary group. I've heard a lot of nonsense, but this NATO guy is a fascist organization I've never heard. NATO, which I know, does not have 80 million dead on its back, as does the Soviet Union. [[Congrats from the CH.]] I would also like to elucidate the honourable Member who in 1954 asked the Soviet Union to join NATO. I don't know if you knew about this, but it's good to know the story! I know this gives them a lot of urticaria, but they go through a pharmacy and buy a ointment that goes through. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u228	It has been a brilliant contribution to the debate!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u229	Better than yours! [[PCP protests and CH counter-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u230	For the end of the debate, Mr President of the State of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation has the floor as soon as there are conditions for the House to hear.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u231	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We strongly and unequivocally condemn Russia's military aggression to Ukraine, a sovereign and independent State. It is not worth using euphemisms or « income fists» on this. We cannot but sincerely regret the widespread suffering and loss of human lives because of this military aggression. But we cannot help but be indignant and revolted in the face of this invasion, a flagrant violation of international law, in the face of the attack on peace and democracy in Europe, as we have not seen for decades. NATO is an essential part of our collective defense system and a fundamental guarantee of our security. Finland and Sweden have been NATO partners since 1994 and, in this context, have maintained an active partnership with the Alliance, contributing regularly to its operations and missions. Following the invasion of Ukraine by Russia, a country with which they share borders, I repeat, Finland and Sweden decided democratically to apply for NATO. Portugal cannot consider any option other than ratification of the accession protocols here under discussion. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The choice is simple. We must not be distracted and we must be clear. Any other decision, whether to support the accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO, or not to take a position is to reward the attacker, is to give him the power to threaten his neighbours, is to turn his back on our partners and friends, liberal democracies like ours, who have built with us modern Europe. I would like to welcome the support of this House through the interventions here today and recall that Portugal defends international law, the Charter of the United Nations and the right of States to their sovereignty and integrity. What is at stake is even though Finland and Sweden have the right to defend and sovereignty. Supporting the accession of Finland and Sweden is contributing to peace, freedom, democracy and tolerance in Europe. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u232	We thus conclude the second item on the agenda. We move on to the third item on the agenda, which consists in the general assessment of the following draft laws: No 199 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Disbursement of the monthly statement of remuneration to the Tax Authority and social security; No. 200 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — exempts small and medium-sized enterprises from the obligation of permanent inventory ( amendment to Decree-Law No 158 / 2009 of 13 July ) ; No. 201 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Possible quarterly reporting of income due to non-resident taxable persons ( amendment to the Tax Code on the Income of Single Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November ) ; No. 202 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Simplifies the recovery of VAT in the case of doubtful recovery claims ( amendment to the value added tax code approved by Decree-Law No 394 - B / 84 of 26 December ) ; No. 203 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Simplifies the obtaining of a regularized tax status declaration ( amendment to the Code of Procedure and Tax Procedure approved by Decree-Law No 433 / 99 of 26 October ) ; No. 269 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Reorganisation of declarative tax obligations in IRC and VAT; No 270 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — clarifys the application of the VAT exemption in respect of all services performed in the exercise of the profession of psychologist by means of an interpretative standard of the VAT code; No 272 / XV / 1. a (L) — Allows the delivery of a single monthly statement of remuneration to the Tax and Customs Authority and to social security, which with them are dragged. To present the draft laws of the Liberal Initiative, I give the floor to Mrs Carla Castro.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u233	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We need to decomplicate companies. We need to decomplicate the relationship with the state. We need to help companies and entrepreneurs focus their time on productive activities and value-generating, not bureaucracies, many of them, even above, duplicates. Today we are presenting five very concrete initiatives, which will benefit liberal professionals, entrepreneurs, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. We have introduced them briefly: to pass the Model 30 monthly declaration for quarterly; to merge the monthly statement of remuneration to the AT ( Tax and Customs Authority ) with the declaration for social security; to simplify the obtainment of a regularized tax statement; to simplify the refund of VAT on debts of dubious receivable customers, values which companies have already brought forward to the State — note that we are talking here about values which companies have already paid in advance to the State and which are probably not going to receive — and I also propose that these procedures be simplified. We also propose exemption from the requirement of permanent inventory of stocks, simplifying and allowing companies to choose the type of inventory of stocks. It is to companies that should be given the power of choice, between possible methods, and not a central decision. in a week of packages, here's a simplification package. The time for debate is little for the detail of each of these measures, but we will have time and opportunity to work in the process of specialization. That is the work we want to do. We need to hear the concrete realities of companies outside this plenary. We need to hear the realities of entrepreneurs, find solutions and solve them. We need not fail to achieve simplification. We recall that Portugal is one of the countries where more time is spent on procedures with the State. What we are proposing today is a reduction in direct costs, both in time and in financial resources, and in the cost of opportunities that are daily on entrepreneurs and managers. This is also about costs of context, productivity and competitiveness; it is also about bringing solutions and incentives to the private initiative. Today, the Liberal Initiative defends, once again, less bureaucracy and more simplification in the relationship with the State, is not the first time and so we will continue to defend it. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[In the meantime, he took the presidency of Vice-President Adam Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u234	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let me take this opportunity to congratulate you, first of all, but also to tell you this: today the work will continue for a long time. As we all realize, we should conclude our interventions around 14 hours. The vote script will have a considerable length of 45 minutes. So, for the ladies and gentlemen. Members will organize themselves, they will be told that today the work will end very close to 15 hours. Therefore, I give the floor to Mr Rui Afonso, from the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, to present Bill No. 269 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Reorganisation of tax reporting obligations in IRC and VAT. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u235	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Before presenting our bill, I could not fail to give a previous note on Bill No. 199 / XV / 1. the, presented by the Liberal Initiative, and 272 / XV / 1. a, of the Book, which aims to enable the delivery of a single monthly statement of remuneration to the Tax and Customs Authority and social security. The proposed change would make sense a few years ago, when the process of charging and sending salaries was manual, and actually working. The remuneration is currently charged electronically and the computer programme itself generates and automatically sends remuneration declarations to social security and the Tax Authority. Therefore, the sending of both declarations is literally at the distance of a click. therefore we consider that these bills, both the Liberal Initiative and the Free Initiative, will make no sense in their practical application. But, now passing on to the explanatory statement of our bill, it is undeniable that certified accountants are discussing themselves with an increasingly rigid and overburdened fiscal schedule of obligations, which make it complex, redundant and cost-generating. The State budget after the State budget, the level of demand for information has increased, both in the amount of information and in the reduction of deadlines for compliance, thus giving rise to an unmistakable overlap of dates. For example, it should be noted that, after 31 December, the certified accounting officer should immediately begin to deal with the closure of the company account, in order to be able to deliver Model 22 to 31 May. Until then, however, and during January, it has to proceed with the delivery of Model 10, draw up the inventory of stocks communication, deliver the VAT declarations from the fourth quarter of the previous year and deliver the IRS declarations. It is urgent to take measures to enable effective re-evaluation of the fiscal calendar, ending with redundancy and eliminating obligations that do not add any value to both taxpayers and entities in favour of a real reduction and elimination of context costs and simplification of the entire process. [[Congrats from the CH.]] What we have come to propose today is a set of concrete measures, which aim precisely to simplify some declarative obligations and to defuse their timetable. First, we propose that the VAT settlement obligation is to have a four-month period instead of a quarter-month period applicable to taxable persons currently in force under the normal quarterly regime, keeping the limit of the 20th day of the second month after the quarter-month period. This measure will release the accountants in a quarter of compliance with a declaration obligation, thus allowing them to devote their time to the treatment of other equally important tax obligations. Secondly, we propose that the deadline for the submission of the periodic return on IRC, the so-called Model 22, be extended from 31 May to 30 June. This change was possible during the pandemic and therefore nothing must prevent it from becoming definitive. Thirdly, we propose that the annual delivery of the single report be terminated to the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, since the information contained therein is already contained in the IES (Simplified Business Information ), so it is imperative that there be coordination of information between that Ministry and the Tax Authority, and the contributors are saved from redundant communications. Finally, and since we are talking about IES, we propose that the deadline for the delivery of IES should be set from 15 July to 15 September, because the tax holidays which have recently been granted as a change in the general tax law give such a margin of manoeuvre, all of which will relieve the participants in this process. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u236	I now give the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, to present Bill No 270 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Clarifies the application of the VAT exemption in respect of all services performed in the exercise of the profession of psychologist by means of an interpretative standard of the VAT code. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u237	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I now begin by congratulating the Liberal Initiative and thanking the possibility of bringing the debate, by drag, the possibility of simplifying and clarifying certain rules of the VAT Code, which are absolutely essential. The dimension that the NAP brings here is that of mental health, but it is precisely linked to the clarification of these rules and interpretative orders that have been made, in our view, wrong. One lesson that COVID-19 has left us was in fact the importance of mental health, both within public policies and in our daily lives. Portugal, as we well know, has a lack of public investment and a delay in implementing the reforms necessary to combat this stigma that is associated with mental health disorders. The extent to which the NAP is currently seeking to ensure the exemption from VAT, in respect of all the services provided in the psychological profession where actions are concerned, in clinical psychology or services in other areas of psychology, such as health, education, social, environmental or community work. This exemption should already apply since 2020 because, on a proposal from the NAP, it was included in the VAT Code. However, the Tributary Authority, completely ignoring what the Assembly of the Republic decided and what was explained in the NAP proposal, decided to read in the approved standard something that was not in it. in this sense, what we propose today is that, in fact, there is the adoption of an interpretative standard that makes clear the will of the Assembly of the Republic and, once again, guarantee access to mental health that unfortunately so much lack continues to do in so many areas of our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u238	To submit Bill No. 272 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Allowing a single monthly statement of remuneration to the Tax and Customs Authority and to social security, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u239	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen of the Liberal Initiative, I thank you for giving us the opportunity to have this debate. It is usually said that the devil is in the details. I will not go so far today, because they are not diabolical details, but there are revealing details here about differences of perspective. The Liberal Initiative wants — and well! — end the duplication of work in the delivery of the monthly statement of remuneration to the Tax Authority and social security. Only that the Liberal Initiative usually says that it does not want a state that knows everything about us, that crosses all the information, that concentrates all the information on taxpayers, workers, citizens and out there. However, there is an exception, which is when it makes life easier for companies, because in your proposal, basically what they say is "to deliver itself to social security or to the Tax Authority and to social security or to the Tax Authority that they will seek to the databases of others", which is not what we should want. Nor does it make sense what the honourable Member of the House said when he said that this is at a distance from a click with the appropriate software. The point of the legislation is that two documents must be delivered, which are sensitively identical, with almost equal information, to the Tax Authority and to social security. How does that end? With a single platform on the part of the State, which, in turn, sends only the relevant information to one or other authority, which is precisely what the Free is proposing. So we managed to simplify, yes, but preserving the right to data protection for citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u240	To put a question to Mr Rui Tavares, Mr Rui Afonso, of arriving, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u241	Mr President, it is only to inform Mr Rui Tavares that computer programs today allow such valences. In fact, if you know, there is TOConline, for example, which is a computer program that allows that. So it doesn't make any sense we're generating central complications, when we already have programs that actually allow this shipment without any kind of embarrassment. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u242	To reply, if that is your intention, Mr Rui Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u243	Mr President, Mr Rui Afonso, of course I would like to thank the information and give the publicity to the honourable Member, but the question is precisely this: the State simplifies life to businesses and to whom it has to give statements. Not having to trust third parties with commercial products has every reason to exist in order to be able to do what the State should already offer its citizens. That is why we, legislators, are here, to make the State have a better relationship with our citizens and not to finally advertise companies, who have every right to have their computer programs and who will continue to have them, but that is another line of business, is not ours, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u244	Let us then move on to the stage of the interventions. The Bureau records the inscription of Mr Pedro Coimbra of the Socialist Party to whom I give the floor immediately. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u245	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The set of bills we now appreciate are vast and technically demanding. For this reason, even for the time it is up here, it is not possible to enter into the detail of each one with rigour and with an exhaustive analysis, as they themselves deserved. It would be delayed and would be a language too technical. In short, I would say that the proposals presented in the various diplomas suffer from several capital sins. Some of the proposals fail because they do not have any practical applicability. Other proposals fall short because, having practical applicability, they have been in force for a long time and already citizens and businesses benefit from them. There are still others, because they know well who presents them today—and they know why they are in the Government Programme and because they were in the Socialist Party Election Programme—they also know that they are being prepared to be made available to the Portuguese in a short time. So here, at the moment, you have every chance to refer to the SIMPLEX Programme as an identity mark of the past, an identity mark of the present and an identity mark of the future of Portuguese, citizens and businesses. SIMPLEX is an administrative and legislative simplification programme, which aims to make the life of citizens and businesses easier in their relationship with the Administration and at the same time to contribute to increasing efficiency in the connection with public services. The objectives of the initiatives proposed under this programme are to amend procedures, simplify or eliminate procedures contained in the laws and regulations in force, based on a negative assessment of their impact or relevance. The Government has recently presented a new SIMPLEX programme, consisting of 48 new measures, which simplify administration, which simplify the lives of Portuguese people, which simplify the lives of businesses. This new edition of the Programme reinforces the importance of innovating, the importance of modernising processes, the importance of consolidating the digital environment as a rule of action to improve the quality of public services, focusing on the main events of business life and the lives of citizens. The new SIMPLEX Program covers several government areas: biometric authentication, virtual consulate, digitized health exams, paperless invoice...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u246	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u247	... or SIMPLEX licenses. These are just a few good and relevant examples.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u248	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u249	SIMPLEX, more than creating technological solutions, simplifies processes and streamlines how the Public Administration works and responds to citizens and businesses. As an example, of the proposals we are debating here today, and because I have no time to take on any more, I said, as suggested here, that the delivery of a single monthly statement of remuneration to the Tax Authority and to social security is already in preparation. As I said earlier, the Government is committed to simplification and misburocratization, paying particular attention to the reporting obligations, and several examples exist under the SIMPLEX Programme. In view of this, the areas of finance, social security and administrative modernization are working to assess the merger of the concepts of income, which are essential for a real and structural simplification of this declarative obligation, thus concluding by the lack of opportunity and need for this now proposed standard. So, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen — and I shall finish — I would like to make it clear that the Socialist Party's bench is very comfortable with the work the Government is doing in this area.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u250	He's always there!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u251	We know that there's a lot to do...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u252	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u253	... and we know that the Government of the Socialist Party has concrete proposals, is identifying them, is realising them, and they will be a reality in the near future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u254	The Bureau registered Mrs Carla Castro of the Liberal Initiative to request clarification. How does the PS not have time, does the honourable Member keep the question?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u255	Yes, Mr President, it is a 'yes' or 'no' answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u256	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u257	Mr President, honourable Member, it is more to do a challenge. I note with pleasure that the measures deserve analysis and, then, I hope that there will be approval of them, so that we can properly analyze them in the work of the specialty, not only for the dignity of the proposals, but for the dignity of the time of entrepreneurs, liberal professionals of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. It is not worth saying that there is compromise or that there are SIMPLEX many years ago, when the latest data show that we, Portuguese, continue to descend on the indicators on ease of doing business. So empty words and plans, no, thank you. We want actions, and concrete actions, and that is what we are doing here, in the name of this commitment and not of digital health and biometry, which are important themes, but that is not what we are talking about today, it is not propaganda, it is action. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u258	Mrs Carla Castro, it was not a good question, it was a small intervention before, and very good.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u259	Mr President, I am sorry, but at the beginning I asked whether you were going to follow up, if you were to approve our proposals, to discuss them with due dignity in the field of expertise. I give time to the PS, of course.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u260	Madam Member, if time passes, I give the floor to Mr Pedro Coimbra to answer. How long did you give up, Mrs Carla Castro?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u261	That could be all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u262	So, Mr. Pedro Coimbra, you have 35 seconds to answer Mrs. Carla Castro.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u263	Mr. President, I'll be very quick. I would just like to remind the honourable Member that, in my speech, the measures she has brought here today are in the Portuguese Government Programme, they are in the Government Programme approved in this Assembly of the Republic, and the Government is, together with the Tax Authority, with the social security services and those of administrative modernization to implement measures to make them a reality. As I said, the Socialist Party's bench feels very comfortable with the government's work on this issue and feels very comfortable with the work the Socialist Party's governments have been doing over the past few years and will carry out in the coming years in the administrative modernization and simplification of the lives of Portuguese and our companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u264	We now give the floor to the Member of the Parliamentary Group of the PSD Alexandre Simões.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u265	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The diplomas under discussion today respect proposals aimed at disbursing and simplifying tax obligations before the State. We are fully aware that the burden of taxation has risen in the current year and is the largest of the decade — only this year, the excess tax revenue, I repeat, too much, can reach EUR 7 billion — and how this increase asphyxiates Portuguese families and companies in an unprecedented way, for more than one year in which inflation has been the greatest since 1993, cutting the income available from families. In the face of this terrible picture, relieving the bureaucratic burden associated with fulfilling declarative obligations is undoubtedly the minimum that can be done. However, in the case of Bill No. 199 / XV / 1. the under discussion: the proposal recommends the delivery of only a monthly statement of remuneration to AT and social security, avoiding redundancy and duplication of declarations. The legislation in force until now provides that any of the declarations can be submitted either through the AT portal or the social security portal since 2013, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! However, this possibility, so far invoked, has not even materialized, since the companies continue to be obliged to deliver each of the declarations on their portal, or on the AT or social security, according to the declaration in question. Therefore, the pre-opinant Member may well invoke the SIMPLEX system and the attempt to discredit the government. We well know that bureaucratic entanglement is a preaching on the left, it is even a genetic trait of any PS government, with or without support from the extreme left. In addition, the PS Government has, as we know, opted for a policy of budgetary asphyxiation through captivating, resulting in the degradation of the quality of the service provided by the Public Administration. Unfortunately, the consequences, these, fall on companies, job-creating and wealth-creating, who know, like no one, the difficulties they face in voluntarily fulfilling their tax obligations. However, companies and taxpayers in general recognize — and it is important to remind you, in this Parliament — that it was with the PSD governments that the reform of administration and fiscal justice has advanced in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u266	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u267	It is enough to remember that all reforms in this area have always had social-democratism, since the reform of income tax, such as IRC and IRS. Here we can talk about the IRC which, thanks to the left-wing governments of the Socialist Party, is today at the level of the OECD countries ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ), one of the higher tax rates, including the spill, as we well know. Or we can talk about the green tax reform that we have done, so important at a time of energy transition and climate change. It is also justified to recall the successful performance of the PSD government by investing in important projects that, yes, revolutionized the relationship between the taxpayer and the tax administration. For example, the e-Fatura program, Mr. Members, who today are recognised as a success case, either in simplifying tax obligations, or in combating tax fraud and avoidance, an exemplary international programme, but which has, of course, been implemented by a PSD government. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD therefore supports the objective of simplifying and speeding up the relationship between the taxpayer and the tax administration, so it is available for the analysis of these proposals, which have been addressed to us today and which we have discussed here, in the field of specialty, with a view always to a more just and modern country, as regards the fulfilment of tax and contribution obligations. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u268	The Bureau made a request by Mr Bruno Dias of the PCP Parliamentary Group to whom I give the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u269	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP has long stressed the need for support for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, as an essential element in responding to serious national economic problems, and has presented concrete solutions for these problems to be overcome. In the situation that the country lives, the need for a policy of defence, modernization and development of the country's productive apparatus, support and defense of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, accompanied by a policy that inverts the unfair distribution of national income, is inevitable. Micro-enterprises often face new obligations from various authorities and institutions of the State in a labyrinth of measures, many of the last hour, which not even their accountants or other specialized consultants often manage. The Parliamentary Group of the CFP is proud of a serious and rigorous intervention heritage in defence of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, with important measures which have been approved and entered into force. It was the case of the extension of the exemption from the obligation to use the official auditor, updating the value of the turnover from which legal review was required, thus reducing the administrative costs that many small companies face. It was also the case of the termination of the special payment on account, with the opposition of the PSD — because, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, this IRC is not all the same! — which benefited, in a significant way, small and micro-enterprises, as a result of the proposal and persistence of the CFP. It was also the case of the deburocratization and support programme for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, proposed by the CFP in this House and approved, without a vote against, in the Resolution of AR No 42 / 2018. Here the problem was the lack of the PS's political will to carry out several of these measures, which, in fact, keep its present. It is essential and undeserving to move forward in deburocratization and in support of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, with concrete measures, which respond to the problems of sense and identified by entrepreneurs. in this sense, the CFP will follow up some of the proposals that have been submitted, in particular the simplification of the monthly statement of remuneration or the rule that it considers the regularized tax situation, for the purposes of access to support and other situations, with a residual debt value that can be updated. There are, however, a number of other proposals, both from the IL and from the Czech Republic, which, if approved, would not represent an innocent deburocratization, but rather the opening of loopholes in the law conducive to exploitation, abuse and injustice. This is the case with the transfer of information on income from non-residents from monthly to quarterly, or of the terms in which the amendment is proposed to a process of recovery of VAT in dubious recovery credits, or, in particular, the simple and simple elimination of remuneration information. Here, in fact, it is worrying that bad decisions are being made, including by the government, because often with the label of unburocratization is very misleading there. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u270	We give the floor immediately to Mrs Mariana Mortágua of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u271	Mr. President, Mr. As and Mr. Members: there are several proposals and many of them of a different nature in this agenda. There are proposals for simplification of procedures, in particular the proposal to join the monthly declarations of remuneration to social security and the Tax Authority, which we follow because we see no problem in this proposal. There are proposals for amendment of procedures and rules, some relate to deadlines for submission of tax declarations, others relate to changes in minimum values for obtaining non-debt declarations, others also relate to the periodicity with which relevant information from non-residents is sent. We will accompany some of them, which concern the simplification of processes, but we do not follow those that deprive AT, national or foreign, of data that are essential to their work. There are also proposals that are de facto tax amendments, such as the reduction in VAT on the activity of psychologists, which we will also follow. In short, and trying to create a criterion for the votes of the Left Block in this area, we will not impermissibility and follow most of these proposals, subject to two criteria: firstly, to ensure that neither the AT nor social security are deprived of information necessary to combat fraud and to carry out their activities and functions; secondly, to ensure that these proposals are applicable, that they can be operational, taking into account the resources available to both AT and social security at this time. It therefore seems to us that it makes sense that some of these proposals may fall to the specialty, so that we can consult the Tax Authority and, through this consultation, make our final decisions. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u272	We have no further requests for a word, and we are thus immediately closing. To close this debate, Mrs Carla Castro has the floor of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u273	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the comparative indicators of ease of business, Portugal is one of the countries where more time is spent on procedures with the State. Despite the advertisements we have just heard, the latest known data from the indicator shows that we have decreased five positions. unlike the PS, the Liberal Initiative is not comfortable with this situation. The proposals of the Liberal Initiative today are to simplify statements, merge information delivery documents, with the full balance of privacy and computer security, in which we are clear, into an intransigent defense. We defend that companies can receive VAT from clients' debts of dubious collection or that they can choose their own methods of stock, as we defend other freedoms. Mrs. Members, we can play with the words, we can say that it is a bureaucratic epidemic, that is a week of packages and that the time of the simplification package has come, but the issue is serious and it is necessary to say that the private initiative must be encouraged and trained, freeing it from unnecessary complexities that discourage the creation of value. The time spent on state-related procedures is large and must be less. It is also serious to say that it is within our reach to make a huge difference in the day-to-day life of liberal professionals, entrepreneurs and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. We cannot resign ourselves and think that complexity is a fairy, because it is not. We cannot resign and think that bureaucracy is a fairy, it is not. We cannot believe that we have infinable diagnoses and reject feasible solutions, which make the difference. A project that has been on propaganda for several years does not mean that it is in action. We see many plans, beautiful words and processes of intention, but we have the opportunity for the plenary not to get idle in action. I sincerely hope that the Liberal Initiative will now have these measures adopted for this decent work in the field. We also need to hear...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u274	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u275	... the concrete realities of entrepreneurs, liberal professionals, companies out there, bring their concerns here and, more than concerns, solutions. It is within our reach and the Liberal Initiative will be intransigent in this. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u276	We have concluded point 3 of our agenda. We now move on to point 4, which consists of the assessment of Bill No. 30 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Exclusive dedication scheme in the National Health Service, which drags several legislative initiatives. To introduce this initiative, I give the floor to Mr João Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u277	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP brings to the debate a measure that is of particular relevance to strengthening the National Health Service ( SNS ), because it is an important measure of fixation and retention of health professionals. The exclusive dedication regime is not only indispensable in the National Health Service, as a solution that stagnates the departure of professionals who are leaving the SNS. It is also a solution that health professionals, committed and committed to public service, ask for and demand. This is because they know that only with measures that value them and recognize, indeed, the importance of their role in ensuring the future of the SNS and health care to the population is that they can commit themselves and stay in our hospitals and health centers, where so much is lacking. This system of exclusivity which we propose, being optional, does not only provide for the recovery of remuneration conditions, goes far beyond the financial incentives, which are of the most basic justice. We propose an increase of 50 % of the remuneration as well as an increase of 0, 5 points per year evaluated or 1 point per evaluation cycle. We also propose an increase in the duration of the 2-day holiday period, participation in research, training and qualification activities or preference in competitive procedures in the case of equal classification. The exclusive dedication that we defend is intended for doctors, nurses, as well as for other professionals with fixed needs. In addition to representing compensation for those who choose the public service, because they are prevented from performing functions in health units in the private and social sectors, the scheme also translates into more rights, careers, more training and more recognition and respect for those who choose the public cause.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u278	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u279	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the National Health Service is going through difficult times. We must not hide it, but rather identify its difficulties, to combat and correct its shortcomings with effective measures, providing the SNS with the necessary capacity to ensure the health care that the Portuguese need and the right. The current moment is decisive for the future of the SNS. The same is true for the health of the Portuguese people. It is no longer possible to postpone, so it is urgent to reverse this path of weakening public health services, which will only lead to a more ill population, due to lack of access to the care you need, and more exploited, feeding the disease business.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u280	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u281	Therefore, in addition to the extent that we are debating here and we will have the opportunity to vote today, what is required is the adoption of responses that allow the hiring and fixing of health professionals in the SNS, to recover the delays in providing care, to ensure the conduct of consultations, surgeries, examinations and treatments or to assign medical and family nurse to all users, when today, about 1 million and a half of Portuguese do not have a family doctor. In short, these responses will ensure health care to which users are entitled, with high quality and in the recommended time. The CFP will not fail to fight for the strengthening of the SNS, by professionals and means necessary to ensure to all users the health care they need. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u282	You have entered the Bureau for a request for clarification by Mrs Cláudia Bento, the PSD, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u283	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. João Dias, according to government data, at the end of 2021, there were about 30,000 doctors and 50,000 nurses in the National Health Service. exclusivity in the National Health Service can only work with profound reforms in governance, which contemplate services, their autonomy, attractive remuneration and flexible conditions, based on a ability to define and monitor commitments between different entities, with the aim of obtaining health gains. The PCP bill proposes, for health professionals, an optional, exclusive dedication scheme and an increase of 50 % of the monthly base remuneration. Mr President, I leave you here the first question: do you have any idea what the impact this measure has on the National Health Service in economic terms? Do you believe that these values compete with the values practiced in private service? I also ask you whether the PCP spoke with, or heard, the unions of doctors and nurses before presenting this initiative. The PCP bill also proposes that this exclusive dedication scheme should be applied in a mandatory way to professionals who exercise leadership functions, thus making sure that they have any possibility of performing functions in private or social health units. What I ask you is whether the PCP has an idea of the effect that this would cause in the functioning of the National Health Service, with the possible exit of these professionals with leadership positions. Do you really believe that top professionals would stay in the National Health Service, receiving much less than what they could get in the private sector? Finally, I have a challenge: accept the resignation of your diploma to the committee without a vote, thus demonstrating that your initiative will not be merely political opportunism and that there may be a more balanced, broader debate that meets the needs of the sector. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u284	To reply, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u285	Mr President, with the short time left, I wanted to say that the exclusivity regime has already existed. It was completed in 2009, but there are still doctors on an exclusive basis in the SNS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u286	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u287	Basically, this is what trade unions and professionals are asking: to resume these measures, extend them to other health professionals, including nurses and other professionals who need them. Mrs Deputy, on the issue of remuneration and how much it costs: it is much cheaper to provide SNS care than to buy to the private, devaluing and weakening the SNS. Guaranteedly, doing within the SNS is much cheaper than buying to the private!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u288	Sure! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u289	To submit Bill No. 268 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Amendment to Decree-Law No 52 / 2022 of 4 August in order to ensure the right to the health of citizens and to amend the regime of full dedication, Mr Pedro dos Santos Frazão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u290	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: First of all, let's start fighting fake news and putting the points on us. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the arrival proposed strengthening SNS measures in the last two State budgets. This news is from December 2020. The speaker showed the news he mentioned. Mrs. Members of the Communist Party — who now have an ex-President of the Journalist Union — please update themselves, and do not say again that the SNS is coming to an end. What arrives is a health for everyone, both in the public and in the private, a system that brings, for all, the first-line health care we want in Portugal. No, we don't want a protossoviet system, in the image of what the left ones want today. What he wants and defends are people with more resources, to have access to health care, especially in cases where the State cannot meet this need. Yesterday, the SNS was 43 years old, that's true. The SNS is thus a kind of half-age, half frustrated, who has always been pampered by his left family, always raised with a lot of money in the pocket to spend, but to those who are asked for little responsibility. But the best friends of this 43-year-old type, this SNS, are the medical and nursing staff, who at the end of these 43 years and are always proving their friendship is resilient and trying to pull your SNS friend up, are now forced to escape the bad-treatment of this own friend, due to the bad conditions they are daily crushed. The SNS, at the end of 43 years, is feared by its friends and those who use it. The communists come here today, wanting to put an iron curtain around the SNS and we know well that when the communists build walls against the freedoms, those who suffer are always us, the people. Today, this left-handed SNS has pregnant women who have to travel more than 150 km to give birth in the Queen's Caldas, when the INEM (National Institute of Medical Emergency) made them walk through three different districts, leaving Setúbal and Seixal, passing through Santarém, and all the maternity wards of these districts were closed, without remembering that, in the district of origin itself, there are hospitals whose maternity facilities never close and that could help these people. Yes, sir. Members, those hospitals that never close the birth blocks and that already make 30% of the births in Lisbon are in fact private hospitals. This SNS that we have, on the left, is a SNS that responds, with commissions, to the deaths of babies due to lack of assistance in childbirth. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It is a SNS that responds, with commissions, to waiting lists for exams, surgeries and consultations. It is a SNS that responds, with commissions, to competitions of fully desert specialty, to more than 1300 million euros lost in waste—I repeat: EUR 1300 million—, to thousands of statements of an excuse for the responsibility of doctors, nurses, pharmacists and, stop! , today, even operational assistants sign liability excuses in the SNS. We also have an INEM that forces crew members to fly ambulances with decades, for millions of kilometers, and that literally lose their wheels when they are doing the rescue. My gentlemen, yesterday, this ambulance, in Braga, lost a wheel with the crew, a doctor and a nurse, inside. The speaker showed a picture of the ambulance he mentioned. They were in danger of life when they were going to try to look after an emerging patient, who was also in trouble. Neither the patients themselves had the health care they deserved. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, today more Portuguese people die victims of this socialist SNS than victims of the Russian invasion of the Ukraine. In Ukraine, since 24 February, in these seven months of Russian invasion, 5600 civilians and 9000 Ukrainian military have already died. In Portugal more than 10 000 people died in each of these seven months. Therefore, our proposal meets what is the opinion of doctors and the Medical Order, which is a dedication to the SNS, but in which there is the possibility that doctors also have their activity in other sectors. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u291	To submit Bill No. 276 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — System of exclusivity in the National Health Service, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u292	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's news and current numbers show that in Portugal there are about 1 million and 270,000 people who do not have a family doctor. If these numbers aren't worse, it's because, during the year 2022, 272 new doctors came into service. But if this seems like good news, I want to give all the information, because the future is not positive. By the end of the year, there are 400 family doctors who will retire. So the numbers are simple: if we have 272 doctors coming in and 400 retiring, we know, therefore, that at the end of the year there will be more than 1 million and 270,000 people without a family doctor. This is not inevitable, but it is the result of strategic choices that have been made over the years in the health sector. We look at hospital emergencies and various specialties and the result is exactly the same. We see that there is a lack of professionals and, due to the lack of professionals, there is a lack of care for the quality that we think our people deserve. From this point of view, if there is a lack of professionals, the answer to the question « why are they missing? » is almost always unanimous: because the careers of the National Health Service are not attractive. Therefore, what the Left Block proposes is that anyone who wants to dedicate to the National Health Service may do exclusively, with the appreciation of his career for this purpose. Dedication to public service must have a specific reward, which values professionals to value services. From that point of view, the questions we can ask are simple, but the answers are also simple. What is the cost of this measure? He is much smaller, Mrs PSD, than the costs of this measure are not taken, because when there is no appreciation of careers we have the completely absurd payment of tasks in hospital emergencies. We have, worse than that, the cost of not providing quality health services to people. I believe that these are the costs we never want to bear. So, yes, it comes out much cheaper we have serious careers in the SNS and we have exclusiveness than we leave people without the necessary services and health care. To the question "have they spoken to health professionals? » I reply: still yesterday they came to the street and we were with them, and one of the requests they made is to have a career with exclusivity regime. This is not even a novelty, and even here is a historical curiosity. exclusivity in the National Health Service was introduced by a PSD government, by a PSD minister at the time.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u293	The PSD was already innovative!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u294	It has been suspended by a PS Government and, curiously, what this PS Government now tells us is that it wants to try to reintroduce something similar, but it is only a full dedication that in practice allows professionals to be able to be in the SNS with a ham in private. Well, it's not a little walk for one of them. It says that this regime is little and that, therefore, they should be with both legs in private. We don't accept that. We want a strong SNS and he's only strong if he has strong professionals. I end with a greeting to all the professionals of the National Health Service and an apology for the previous intervention, which is miserable. To say that all deaths in our country — such 10,000 per month, on average, since the beginning of the year — are due to the lack of care of the SNS is not only a complete lack of intellectual consistency,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u295	But how do you know? Oh, my God! Say that based on what?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u296	...it's a disrespect, it's an insult to all professionals. I think that's the only way to get here, it's not the left block part. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u297	The Bureau noted a request for clarification from Mr Pedro dos Santos Frazão of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival. However, we have the situation of the Parliamentary Group of Arrival only 7 seconds, which is obviously your right, but the problem is that the Left Block has no time to answer. That is why I say to Mr Pedro dos Santos Frazão that, for the sake of all of us, you have only seven seconds to make an intervention. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u298	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to ask Mr Pedro Filipe Soares if he is not ashamed to say what he just said.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u299	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u300	Mr Deputies, your bench and the PCP are absolutely responsible for approving, along with the Socialist Party, the State budgets that brought this state of health to the SNS! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u301	There's little time!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u302	Get judgment and be ashamed!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u303	Yes, Mr President, the Portuguese are victims of the SNS, and if you really want to know what is in the cause of mortality you approve our Possible Investigation Commission, so that we actually know what is killing the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u304	Mr. Deputies, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u305	The Portuguese want to know and this House has the right to ask why there is too much mortality in Portugal. Be courageous and approve of the Investigation Committee. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u306	Apologize to the professionals!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u307	With no further requests for clarification, we will now turn to the speeches of the other parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u308	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u309	Mr Pedro dos Santos Frazão asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u310	Mr President, I wanted to make a protest at the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u311	You want to make a protest, but you have a problem...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u312	Mr President, I would like to make an inquiry to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings, I apologize.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u313	Mr. Member, is it a protest or is it an inquiry? If it's a protest, you don't have time. If it is for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings, then you have the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u314	It is an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u315	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u316	Mr President, I would like to say the following: today, at this plenary session, we have seen Members who have doubled and nearly tripled their speaking time,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u317	You little bastards! We only know how to complain!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u318	... we saw a strong communist Member who went far beyond his intervention time in almost 2 and a half minutes. Now, I have only exceeded my intervention time in 35 seconds and have been permanently withdrawn in my time, both by the President and by the whole House. It does not seem to me to be a fair treatment for all parliamentary banks and all Members. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Protests from PS, PCP, BE and L Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u319	Mr President, your comment has been recorded. You now have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Joana Cordeiro of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u320	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To solve the very serious problems of the SNS, the PCP and the Left Block are again presenting the exclusivity regime as a solution. For the CFP, a regime initially for doctors and nurses, but if the Government so believes, that it can extend to other health careers « whose need for the establishment of professionals in the SNS is proven to be found ». An optional but optional regime for doctors and nurses. If the government extends to other careers, does the regime remain optional or, for these professionals, is exclusivity compulsory? That's not what's written. Moreover, they want compulsory exclusivity for the leading positions. It is indeed impressive to aversion to accept freedom of choice. PCP and Left Block also propose several increases for those opting for exclusivity, such as the increase in base maturity, the increase in points, the increase in holiday days, among other benefits. The questions that are being asked are: have the PCP and the Left Block negotiated these benefits with professional representative organizations? Is this, or is it not, a matter of government negotiation? How many doctors, nurses and other health professionals do you think they would opt for this exclusive dedication regime? I would say that they will certainly have these numbers and this estimate well calculated, because otherwise we are here discussing vague, irresponsible and inconsequential proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u321	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u322	Mrs. Members of the PCP and the Left Block, the proposals they present do not solve the problems of the SNS and will not bring the missing professionals to SNS. The solution is not exclusivity. The solution is a paradigm shift in the health system. The solution is to put aside ideological prejudices and put, once and for all, the interest and health of Portuguese in the first place. People don't want to know if they're being treated by the public, private or social sector. People want to be treated, want to see their health problems solved quickly, without having to be months or years on waiting lists.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u323	All right! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u324	The Liberal Initiative has been presenting proposals that, if approved, would immediately solve the serious problems that health goes through and that gave people more and better health. The left proclaims defending the SNS, but what you've been doing is digging, permanently, its grave. The health care that people need and for which they do not find an answer in the SNS could be provided if they were contracted where that response exists. But no. The greatest concern on the left is not the health of the Portuguese nor so little the SNS. What the left puts before everything and of all is its centralizing and statisticizing ideology. Don't count on the Liberal Initiative for that! We want more and better health for all, we want freedom of choice and we want a national health system that ensures true universality in access. I shall end with a final note for the initiative of the Arrival: what is the point of presenting amendments to the SNS Statute when they have already submitted a request for parliamentary approval to that same diploma? If these proposals were to be adopted, what would be included in this parliamentary assessment?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u325	The changes!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u326	The diploma already with the amendments? Would you like to make a parliamentary assessment of a diploma which already contains amendments introduced by the Arrival itself?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u327	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u328	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, is it from us or is this trawling completely extemporaneous? Oh, my God! So, despite our appreciation of some of the proposals, we will have other times to discuss it. [[Applause from the IL.]] [[Meanwhile, President Augusto Santos Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u329	Mr Pedro Melo Lopes, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u330	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The National Health Service is currently debating serious structural problems, resulting in a lack of thought, a lack of strategy and a clear lack of capacity to define priorities. The Socialist Party and the left led the Portuguese health system to a dead end. Today, we have almost half of the population with health insurance and subsystems and have a natural increase in the demand for private services, which, taking advantage of health chaos, recruit our hardworking SNS professionals. Health professionals, tired of not seeing their career valued, being badly treated and not having working conditions, no longer complain, no longer even strike, simply leave the SNS and will work flexibly and in a dignified way, seeking to have some quality of life. The challenge is how to recruit or captivate these professionals for the SNS. Now, for such a serious issue and, at the same time, so complex, the Communist Party and the Left Block — the Government's cruising parties, which helped to unleash the National Health Service, resort to outdated and uncontextualized bills with the current reality of professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u331	Have judgment!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u332	Defending medical or nursing exclusivity without having the humility of, in the legislative process, listening to professionals, without knowing the reality of the ground and without listening to orders and unions is, in addition to being irresponsible, populist. It is, in addition to falsifying, a clear attempt to hunt at the vote of the least informed. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we must have the perfect notion that, if this diploma were to be approved today, for example by obliging the exclusiveness of service directors, we had tomorrow a band of many experienced doctors, major pillars of the SNS. How many doctors would the Communist Party and the Left Block expect to attract to the SNS, with this proposal? I'll answer you: zero. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Catarina Martins.]] This is a model that does not reflect the needs of the system or professionals. [[PSD applause.]] It is a model that does not define even the amount of working hours. It is a model that does not contain minimum requirements that result in an effective increase in productivity. It's a model that...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u333	Is there more? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u334	... does not talk about health gains. What are the health gains with the implementation of this diploma? We are ready to talk about exclusivity, because it was the PSD that, with its reformist spirit, 30 years ago — I repeat, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, 30 years ago! — he brought this issue and allowed this modality to doctors.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u335	So let's apply this model, with that time load and with these conditions!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u336	It was the Socialist Party's inability to innovate that passed a death certificate in 2009. [[PSD applause.]] We have no doubt that optional exclusivity, respecting the individual freedom of doctors or professionals, allows to maintain critical mass in the SNS. We have no doubt that it enables young people to be more talented, renew the system, maintain working conditions and improve health quality. However, we also know that nothing serves a more attractive remuneration model if the same is not accompanied by a deep and much-needed reform in the organization of the entire health system. The PSD is not against exclusivity, but it is definitely against mandatory, and we agree to allow this discussion to take place in the field of specialty, where you did not want to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u337	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u338	I shall conclude, Mr President. the PSD is primarily interested in ensuring that patients are treated properly. We don't embark on demagogic conversations. We know that during these seven years they have never been available to agree with the PSD a strategy that changes the course of events, but today we leave the challenge to the new Minister of Health and now to the new CEO (Chief Executive Officer ) : count on the PSD ; as we have always been, we are available for a responsible discussion that helps to meet the difficult challenges of the coming times. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u339	For an intervention on behalf of the NAP, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u340	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I think it was clear from this debate that the PSD, the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival are coming, and it is certainly not in support of the SNS and its professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u341	No, it's for dogs and cats!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u342	It's in people's help, because you have money to pay health insurance!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u343	We do not follow the narrative that exclusivity should be compulsory, but rather that of an appreciation of professionals. I remember, in fact, that yesterday the SNS was 43 years old, and not so long ago that the Portuguese did not have the most basic health care. Therefore, discussing the appreciation of the SNS and its subsistence is important and we clearly accept that there has to be a review in the way the SNS works, but it necessarily goes by valuing the professionals rather than the private service, because this would once again give in to these interests. As early as July this year, this House rejected the NAP's proposal for the exclusivity regime, which was precisely rejected by the votes against PS, the Arrival and the Liberal Initiative, as well as by the PCP's abstentions, which today brings us this proposal, and the PSD. In our view, the regime of full dedication approved by the Government does not give the necessary answer, from the outset, because it does not provide for the exclusivity of other professionals than doctors, such as nurses, health assistant technicians and all those who make up the SNS. There is important work to do in the field of expertise and we will be here to make our contributions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u344	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u345	Mr. President, when watching this debate, seeing the benches on the right so sharp against the left, it gives a person to ask whether the debate is about the SNS or about the left, i.e. whether the main concern on the right is the SNS or the existence of a left,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u346	It's both of you!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u347	...that you also have the right to have a different view... [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u348	... and whose concern is even the defense of the SNS. The SNS has worked for these 43 years and it was very short of Portugal. It was a great deal lacking to many people who without him would not have saved their lives. [[CH Member's protests Filipe Melo.]] We need a strong SNS, which will recover professionals abroad with the Regress Health program, which the Free proposed and which was approved in this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u349	Ah! Ah! Ah! How many came?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u350	We need an SNS, Mrs. Joana Cordeiro, who is not struggling for her survival of blindfolded and with a hand behind her back, without knowing what the pay tables of the private ones are like, for example, or how much one should go to ensure the exclusivity of their paintings. We need an SNS which fights, on the market, on equal circumstances and information for all, as is normal in a market. That is why the Free will vote in favour of the proposals from the CFP and the Bloc and will once again present proposals that uphold these principles of fair competition in health services, but that the State defends what it is, the SNS, that so many people need.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u351	To speak on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mrs Susana Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u352	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Here are three initiatives that propose the implementation of an exclusive dedication regime and the amendment of Decree-Law No 52 / 2022, which approves the Statute of the National Health Service. The CFP, in its draft law, proposes a 50 % increase in remuneration, an increase in evaluation, an increase in the number of holiday days, an increase in the licence for training and the exercise of functions in private and social sector units is prohibited. The Left Block, in its draft law, proposes an increase in remuneration of 40 %, an increase in evaluation, the increase in the holiday period and that the exclusivity regime is incompatible with the exercise of functions in the private and social sectors. In its request for amendment, the National Health Service notes that the National Health Service is the organized and articulated set of public, private or social services establishments providing a service of public interest and that the State has an obligation to conclude protocols with these entities. The authors of these initiatives argue that these measures are answers to overcome the lack of health professionals, to fix these professionals and to improve working conditions in the National Health Service. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, yesterday the National Health Service Day was marked. The National Health Service is the greatest achievement of our democracy, and that is what we all agree on. We all recognize its importance...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u353	All of them? Oh, my
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u354	... and all in this House are responsible for the statements we make about the National Health Service. The National Health Service is doctors and nurses, but they are also technical assistants, operational assistants, social workers, nutritionists, psychologists and all those who provide service. And it's also the users. We cannot disregard that at present we live a great complexity in the area of health, a complexity that challenges decision makers for the responsibility of the sustainability of health systems, for their efficiency and for the organization and coordination of health agents in different regions of the country. It was in this commitment that the Socialist Party and the Government approved the new Health Bases Act and a new Statute of the National Health Service... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... which provides for full dedication. The full dedication scheme provides for a voluntary system of progressive implementation of assistance commitments, with a model of organisation of work, the remuneration regime and the system of incompatibilities negotiated with the respective trade union structures. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, 43 years of National Health Service! Major challenges, complex problems — human resources, organization, coordination, access, modernization, sustainability. We can choose a number of ways, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. The PS rejects the idea of the prophets of misfortune and that everything goes wrong. We will continue to work to create more value in the National Health Service because we know what this represents in the lives of Portuguese people. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, if we are well-intentioned we can also replicate what many people say, such as « I was well-treated », « I was well-accompanied », « I have free access to my treatment », creating confidence rather than confusion. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as much as they try to dramatize — and may even have forgotten — the Portuguese will not forget the difficult times that they have lived in pandemics, fear, doubts, uncertainty, prohibitions, as well as the work, dedication and resilience of those who have been in front of difficult decisions,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... determined to protect people. Our responsibility remains this, ladies and gentlemen. Members : to protect people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u355	To close the debate by the CFP, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u356	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP is proud to have brought forward a proposal that defends the National Health Service, but which is also defended by health professionals, because they know that it is necessary and fundamental.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u357	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u358	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Joana Cordeiro, as far as ideological differences are concerned, she is even well supported and pointed out, but the CFP is also proud to have an option to defend the National Health Service, the health professionals and the health of Portuguese. [[PCP applause.]] Of course, this is not the ideological option of the Liberal Initiative or the one on the right, whose option is to defend the interests of the economic groups of the disease.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u359	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u360	That is a difference where we are available for the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u361	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u362	The tape has been the same for 41 years!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u363	in this sense, what we mean is that the PS now shows evidence and shows its true nature. In fact, in health matters, as in other matters, the PS has enormous difficulties in distinguishing itself from the right, distinguishing itself from the PSD, the Liberal Initiative and even the Reach. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u364	He's offending us!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u365	When we should defend the National Health Service with answers, what we saw is that the PS takes two positions. One of them is nothing to do. The inaction, the lack of answers that should be implemented and are not, seriously impairs the National Health Service, its professionals and the access to health by Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u366	And he's not innocent!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u367	In addition, when it does, it is wrong, as in the case of full dedication, a measure that implies greater workload for health professionals. You find the gentlemen. Deputies that health professionals are available for this? Oh, my God! Do you think they are available for a time overload, for a load in terms of what is required with more indicators, with more Excel sheets for health professionals?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u368	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u369	What we want are health indicators focused on the patient, on the conditions of access. Mrs. Members, notice how much we see worsening health indicators such as mortality, access or increase the number of users without a family doctor. And what's growing? The private one!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u370	The deal!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u371	What grows is the answer in the private and the disease business, and that's why the PS doesn't want to break.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u372	It's your fault!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u373	With the absolute majority they have, the question is this: what will they do with this absolute majority to value health professionals and to restore dignity and careers in the National Health Service?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u374	You've left! It's your fault!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u375	We thus conclude point 4 of the agenda. We refer to point 5, which consists in the general assessment of Bill Nos 107 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Ensures the right to housing, protecting the use of fractions for housing purposes and 55 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Clarifies the Legal Regime of the Exploration of Local Housing Establishments ( amendment to Decree-Law No 128 / 2014 of 29 August ). To present the bill of the Left Block, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u376	Mr President, I want to spend my time, but I would also like there to be conditions in the Chamber so that I can present the bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u377	Yes, the honourable Member should only begin to intervene when there are conditions for this, so I ask the Services to reset the time count to zero in the electronic frame.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u378	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is no such drama in Portugal as in housing. The price of houses, both for acquisition and rent, is exorbitant.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u379	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u380	He's doubled in the last 10 years. A rent or a house to buy is today twice as expensive as two years ago. It's not about being able to choose where you want to live anymore. It is no longer a matter of having a house in condition for lighting, comfort or air circulation. This is about having a place to live right now. The income of a T2 in Lisbon is 1500 €, more than twice the national minimum wage. The average price of a T2 to buy is €400 000, i.e. 47 years of national minimum wage. What these prices mean is that there is a large part of the population that is excluded, banned from living in large cities. Part of the population is being condemned, a large part of the young people living outside the cities. If nothing is done, our cities will be full of tourists, they will be the best in the world for digital nomads, they will be the best in the world for non-normal residents and their great tax benefits, they will be the best in the world for vissgold, they will be famous, they will be liberal trophies, but they will not be ours, because our people cannot live there. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Anyone who earns a Portuguese salary cannot live in a large Portuguese city. [[Protests by CH Member Pedro dos Santos Frazão.]] There are many reasons for this disaster, but lack of houses is not one of them.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u381	« Portugal to the Portuguese», this is what he says too!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u382	Mr. Deputies, I said you can't live there who earns a Portuguese salary, whether it's Portuguese or not. Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto, I also know that you will tell me that the problem is the lack of houses and I still know that you appreciate a good chart. I have one to show you. I don't know if you look well away, but blue is the number of families and yellow the price of housing. The speaker displayed a chart. Well, the families didn't grow much. In fact, Portugal has a population decline problem, even if we count on immigrants, we needed more. The gray is the vague housing. There's no lack of houses! There are empty houses and houses that are being used for purposes other than housing. The reasons for this disaster are in a set of public policies aimed at this same: promoting a speculative and elitist market, and the expansion and colonization of local housing in certain areas of large cities is part of its process.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u383	What about Robles?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u384	What is happening in the housing market is the liberalized market at its best. There are no miracles, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u385	What about Robles? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u386	Madam Member, I apologize for interrupting you once more. Apartes are regiments, but they must be done with cordiality and restraint, so that we can hear the speaker and we would all be prestigious, which does not happen if the environment is not of a minimum age. Madam Member, I apologize and continue to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u387	Mr President, for some time now, cordiality has abandoned this House. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no miracles, and the crisis requires choices. It is the choice of unlimited profit and unlimited business at any cost whatsoever or is the choice of the right to housing. The Left Block proposal does not solve all the problems, but part of a premise which has been confirmed by the Supreme Court of Justice ( STJ ) : in fractions intended for housing should not be allowed local housing. It is not such a radical premise the idea that houses are to live and that before business should be the right to housing. This is all that is at stake here: there are houses to live in the city centers and the right to housing is worth more than the unlimited right to business and profit. Tourism, which may continue to exist, is not even concerned about local housing, which may continue to exist outside areas of urban pressure and real estate speculation; what is involved is whether we defend the right to housing or the right to unlimited business. That's all we've decided today. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u388	For an intervention, Mr Hugo Oliveira of the PS now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u389	Mr. President, today we are discussing...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u390	I'm sorry, sir. There was a mistake in the Bureau, and I was penitentiary. Since there is another bill to be presented, Bill No. 55 / XV / 1. a ( IL), the predecessor is Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto. You have the floor, Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u391	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members :I have listened very carefully to Mrs Mariana Mortágua, and it is necessary to understand what the left block bill says. The Left Block project aims to prevent new local housing in municipalities that are part of regions with a density of more than 100 inhabitants per km2 and GDP per capita of more than 75 % of the national average.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u392	No, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u393	This includes places as diverse as, of course, Lisbon and Porto, but also Arganil, Mealhada, Mortágua, Pampilhosa da Serra, Pedrogão Grande, Pombal, Vila Franca do Campo, Valença, Paredes de Cura, and could go there further. They are more than 200 municipalities that fit into the categories that the Left Block presented. I'd like to remember something very important. Local accommodation accounts for about 2 %, 3 % of the country's housing park. In most of the municipalities that I have just listed, the local housing represents even less, much less than that, and hardly challenges the right to housing. You will certainly have a greater weight in some of the parishes of Lisbon and Porto. What the Left Block here defends is legislation that will have a brutal impact at national level with arguments that — whether or not — only apply half a dozen fries in Lisbon and Porto. Sometimes it may seem, but this is not the Municipal Assembly of Lisbon, it is the Assembly of the Portuguese Republic! The boundaries of the territory for which we legislate in this House are between the Atlantic and Olive Ocean, are not between the Tejo and the Saldanha!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u394	Mr. Deputies wants the malt to live for Olivenza, of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u395	Let the Lisbon Municipal Assembly resolve the problems of Lisbon if any. We trust in all local power, throughout the country, that, with the benefit of proximity, you will know and know how to solve your problems better than any of us here. It is not by chance that the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities — led by someone from the PS — agrees with the proposal that the Liberal Initiative will bring here. I assume that the PS will also agree and will not be against the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, which it leads. The proposal of the Left Block is, above all, strongly centralist. As for our proposal, it is very simple. What we are proposing is a clarification of the law, returning to it the interpretation that everyone in this House, from left to right, had before the judgment of the Supreme Court. Everyone thought the law was like we're going to clarify it now. And we can see through discussions over the past few years that the implied premise was that the law worked in this way. We could have gone further. We could have had an ideological vision. We could have done that, but we didn't want to do it. What we brought here simply restates the interpretation that, a few months ago, we all had here in relation to that law. I have just said the following: local housing has democratized access to the revenues of tourist accommodation, allowing people with small savings to share the growth of tourism in Portugal. Local housing was essential for this growth, which fed so many businesses and created so many jobs. It was thanks to local accommodation that the center of many cities was rehabilitated, and many cities will still be rehabilitated if we leave them, if we allow this to happen. Local accommodation was also an essential exit for many small owners who lost their jobs during a time of crisis. Without local accommodation we would not have had the recovery in tourism that allowed us—unfortunately, too late, but this year—recovery for pre-pandamia levels. in this House, we certainly disagree with the legislation in detail. We would defend less restrictive legislation. There would be benches that would want more restrictive legislation, but that is not what we are talking about today. We want, yes, and only, to clarify the law in order to be interpreted in the way we have always interpreted it and, above all, to avoid an existential threat to a business and a sector as important as tourism. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u396	Mr Hugo Oliveira of the Socialist Party has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u397	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we discussed two bills, one of the Liberal Initiative, entitled « Clarify the Legal Regime of the Exploration of Local Housing Establishments », and another of the Left Block, entitled « Guarantee the right to housing, protecting the use of fractions for housing purposes ». These two projects arise following the standardized case-law judgment of the Supreme Court of March 22, 2022, and aim, genericly and respectively, to stipulate that only in low-density territories it is possible to change the constitutional title. In the case of the Left Block, in the sense of the fractions intended for housing are now destined for trade. In the case of the Liberal Initiative, for the purpose of operating the local housing establishments in an autonomous fraction of the building constituted in horizontal property intended for the title of the constitution the dwelling does not constitute a different use of this housing purpose. Well, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, these are two opposite projects, but they make the same mistake, because they make the debate separately. They debate the merit of the local housing separate from the debate on the pressure of the housing market. And for the Socialist Party, which has done so and will continue to do so, this debate must be done together. The project of the Left Block does not even solve the problem of housing and would definitely place a cross in the business of local accommodation, which has been an important arm for the tourism sector. In the project of the Liberal Initiative it is reported that this would cause increased litigation, which would cause chaos in the local housing business. Take a good look at the disorientation of the Liberal Initiative, to the point of its demagogy, to the point of its populism: it is not a member of the Socialist Party, it is not the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group that rejects the Liberal Initiative, it is even the market! It is the market, which the Liberal Initiative elected as a sort of postmodern God, who comes to deny the Liberal Initiative. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the IL Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let's see what the market says about the project of the Liberal Initiative. in a forum recently held, local housing market agents, lawyers, market operators and representatives of the local housing activity in Portugal move away from the scenario of an avalanche of processes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u398	We're sick of saying that! It's obvious!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u399	in a local housing seminar, which was the initiative of IMOJURIS in partnership with PLMJ, with the support of the Local Housing Association in Portugal, some conclusions were presented. Asked about the practical effect of this judgment, Carla Góis Coelho, partner of the dispute resolution area of PLMJ, began by clarifying: « This judgment is not law. According to the lawyer, it does not make any changes to previous decisions, nor does it allow the reopening of proceedings conducted in the past. Well, then let's understand what Eduardo Miranda, President of the Local Housing Association in Portugal says: « This decision will not create an avalanche of processes. In the same vein, local housing operators also devalue the practical effects of the judgment. The impact of this judgment is zero! What we see is the Liberal Initiative to be denied by the market.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u400	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u401	Let's go to conclusions. What does the President of the Local Housing Association say in Portugal? It reads as follows : « The most recent proposals submitted by the Liberal Initiative and the Left Block are decisions that are responsive to the decision of the STJ. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Protests by Members of IL Carlos Guimarães Pinto and João Cotrim Figueiredo.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we should continue to characterize these proposals better. And for the President of the Local Housing Association in Portugal, these proposals are « quick thoughts », stating that « what we need is stability and look at the future, not reactive laws and quick thoughts ». And that is what the Socialist Party undertakes to do, in the present and in the future, as it did in the past: to look at these matters together, with responsibility and with moderation. It is not with radicalism, it is not with laws made in a hurry that this problem is solved. There is merit in local accommodation, there is a problem in housing, and the problems need to be solved together, with weighting and moderation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u402	To speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u403	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are going to talk about the local accommodation and only for this reason is it worth welcoming the proponents of these bills. By the intervention we just heard, the PS won't do anything, you know. The PS won't do anything! There we will have to ask the PS to do something, because, in fact, the law governing this market does not need to be reviewed, but not in this way. It is that the projects in appreciation today, either from the Left Block or from the Liberal Initiative, suffer from the same original defect: a huge ideological prejudice. For the Block, everything that is market is ugly, everything that is private is bad, profit is horrible, private initiative should not be valued, merit, entrepreneurship, individual effort, this should not be valued. What really matters is the people and the distribution of poverty for all. The Liberal Initiative already lives a paradox and also lives on the contrary. Ideological prejudice is "living the market! In other words, liberalism is a kind of wide-spectrum antibiotic that solves everything, so from fractures to headaches, the market solves everything. But this time the market does not really solve everything. The tug of this judgment, which, in good rigour, is true, does not make law, the Liberal Initiative and the Left Block present two diplomas in which one allows everything and the other does not allow anything. The simple formulation of both allows you to realize that this is not how the problem is solved, since of course the local housing is a very complex reality in itself. In the local accommodation, we find both the small saver and the person who almost has a self-employment, as we find the large real estate fund. In addition, local accommodation must also be compatible with a right which is in the Constitution, the right to housing. So, wanting to solve these things from just a bad one, with this kind of solution, everything or nothing, white or black, seems to us to be at risk or, better said, it seems to us to be a very bad solution. We also realize that, for the PS, after all, they don't serve, but that's all right. For PSD, it's not all right. We urged — it is becoming a habit, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! — we ask the Government to use it, since it has won, government, and, since it has an absolute majority, to use it. If the Government once again does nothing, the PSD here will be presenting proposals, such balanced proposals, which are neither one nor the other. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u404	To speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mrs Rita Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u405	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We start this debate by identifying a common problem, the difficulty in access to housing—which is a fundamental right and that our Constitution enshrines, recognizing that everyone needs a place worthy to live, in a system of income compatible with family income. If this concern is transversal to all generations, we know it is particularly felt by new generations. Therefore, in the face of a common problem, we are proposing different solutions. If some sought to limit or expand the supply, the arrival intended to present, at this point, the expansion of resources on the demand side. in this case, on the side of the young people, because we argue that the right to housing cannot be guaranteed on the account of the attack on liberty and private property, but we cannot also expect that it is the common citizen to solve a problem that is the responsibility of the State to resolve. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u406	For this reason, the arrival drew up a proposal for this debate, which had been admitted to the discussion, aiming at the extension of the Porta 65 programme, so that younger people could receive this support, that they could receive it for longer and that this programme would be committed to young couples who are open to life and who actively contribute to the increase in the country's birth, which is one of the so-called priorities of the Socialist Party. [[Congrats from the CH.]] But, in fact, this is a socialist priority only and only in the role, because once again the PS runs away from the debate of ideas and tries to silence the other parties, violating parliamentary practice. The proposer, in this case to the Left Block, would decide whether or not to accept this proposal for this point on the right to housing. That is not what happened, and what was seen was the Socialist Party preventing the debate on this proposal. They prevented the debate on a concrete proposal to ensure the right to young housing! They have withdrawn our proposal from the agenda without even responding to the call for the acceptance of the same proposal! You're not happy, ladies. Socialist Members have cast their hands on this House with the Communists, the appeal of the decision requested by the Arrival at the beginning of this session. I don't know, ladies. Members, what is the common ground of democracy they proclaim, but your successive attacks on the Rules of Procedure and the absolutism ticks show that you are rendering a bad service to democracy and not prestigious this House. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u407	Well said!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u408	It is beginning to be a socialist praxis which, in turn, prevents the debate of ideas in this House and within the Commission, in addition to silencing the opposition with all the means available, particularly in the secretariat. The fear of discussing this issue can only be related to the fact that they want to hide the miserable data about young Portuguese people and the difficulties we feel in emancipation, which is your responsibility. It's your responsibility!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u409	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u410	Our bank will continue to affirm, until the voice on us, the misfortune that is your young policies, with the results ahead: 75% of Portuguese young people earn less than €950 per month; 64% of Portuguese young people, between 18 and 34 years of age, live in the home of their parents; the rate of effort of young people to acquire housing is the highest in Europe, corresponding to 63% of the monthly income of young people; 30% of Portuguese young people are in temporary employment; 21% of young people up to 25 years of age are in unemployment, twice the European average.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u411	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u412	I could continue to list all these data, but, in view of this scenario, the question I leave is: how is it possible for a young Portuguese man to mingle the money necessary to enter a house or face the prices practised in the lease market, aggravated by this galloping inflation? So he wanted to bring all these realities to the debate. And what did the Socialist Party do? He scratched and ignored all our worries,... The speaker scraped sheets of paper. ... maybe to hide the ineffective and miserable programs that don't go away from the paper! [[Congrats from the CH.]] So far, the Porta 65 program, for example in the city of Lisbon, financed only T0 and T1 up to €581. Where do you find a T1 for this value in Lisbon? They promised that they would update these funds in the State Budget this year and we will be here to examine and check if they will. Mrs. Socialist Members, what they should say today to young Portuguese people is that, from the height of the comfort of your chairs, they are absolutely indifferent to our reality, to the reality of the young people who are now in the middle of the month and look at the empty bank account, desperate, asking for the end of it. [[Congrats from the CH.]] to the Socialist Party there is only one warning: they now use and abuse the power they judge. But we will continue to make this closed opposition. They won't pass with us! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u413	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u414	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Increase the difficulties in access to housing. Prices are increasing, they are rising to speculative values, and young people and families cannot, with incomes in our country, access housing. Many families end up being pushed into eviction situations, many families have just had to go away from their place of work, to the outskirts, to find a housing solution. And this finding, this reality in our country gives very clear evidence, which is that leaving this situation in the hands of such a market of rental liberalisation has already revealed that it is not a solution to the problems of housing...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u415	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u416	... and that State intervention is necessary, a direct intervention is needed, in particular in the provision of public housing, to respond to housing shortages in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u417	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u418	Today, we are discussing two initiatives. With regard to the Liberal Initiative, he said that the proposal he brought is very simple. In fact, it is very simple, it is enough to go to its preamble and see that what the Liberal Initiative sets as the goal is « the need to protect investors who have chosen to buy houses in Portugal ». Therefore, in fact, they make quite clear what is the objective they want, because the question of the right to housing, of ensuring housing for families, for young people, is not what concerns the Liberal Initiative, but rather investors who come from outside and come to buy a housing in Portugal. These are not, these are not likely to be called into question. If people have homes or don't have houses, that's a minor problem. With regard to the proposal submitted by the Left Block, there are two aspects we would like to mention. The first is that we consider housing to be a social function and that it cannot be seen as a product, as a commodity, as a business area, in fact as several real estate funds and economic groups have done. Housing in our country must be mobilized to respond to existing housing needs. We follow the need to regulate the local accommodation. In addition, it is necessary to intervene, in a number of ways, on the issues of local accommodation, on the deeply negative impacts with regard to the tax regime of non-standard residents of visasgold and economic groups who acquire blocks in cities to build hotel equipment and who also withdraw the housing available to meet the needs of our country. So here are questions where intervention is needed, because there are fewer houses available with affordable prices for Portuguese people. We believe, however, that the territorial unit proposed in the Left Block initiative, with reference to NUTS III (the nomenclature of territorial units for statistical purposes), covers a huge diversity, which must also be kept in mind and guarded. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say the following: the right to housing is a right which our Constitution enshrines and therefore, from the point of view of intervention in legislation in relation to various aspects, which I have already mentioned, but also a direct intervention by the State, the provision of public housing is fundamental to overcoming the difficulties that many families feel and to ensure that everyone has access to housing. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u419	Mr Rui Tavares of the Free Party has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u420	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are debating housing, local housing, but we are also debating, and it is not just the rule of law and the relationship between two sovereign bodies, such as the Assembly of the Republic and the courts. What the Liberal Initiative tells us today is what we have heard in some countries of the European Union that do not respect the rule of law: the judges have decided in a way, the rubber is passed, the judges have decided otherwise, they do not understand anything of this.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u421	Is Parliament a rubber? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u422	They want us to have the understanding that has always been given, and the Liberal Initiative is that they know what it is, regardless of the courts they decide not only on the basis of the interpretation of the law but also on constitutional values, such as the right to housing. Therefore, the idea of the Liberal Initiative is that, in the name of being able to have the faroest in the house, we should be aware that the judges have decided, but it is not decided, because the Liberal Initiative decides better. The world is damaged, at a time when there is a crisis in housing, even to reality. If it can be true that only 2 % or 3 % of the housing market is local housing, it is also true that in the housing that people are looking for, these 2 % or 3 % have a real impact that we all know. And the reality is also that I heard the representatives of the local housing, on the very day when the judgment was given, they said that, in practice, their impact was smaller. At the moment we are, what we need is to defend people, protect them in their search for a house they are entitled to. And, in this sense, we will follow the proposal of the Left Block, which can certainly be improved in the field of expertise and to that end we will contribute.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u423	To close the debate, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of BE, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u424	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Ignoring some dramatic, understandable and self-evident excesses of those who have few opportunities to speak in plenary...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u425	Mrs. Member, I'm sorry. It is nothing personal, but, of course, there is a request for intervention that the Bureau has not noticed. Therefore, I apologize, but before I can close the debate, I will give the floor, for an intervention, to Mr Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN, to whom I ask for the maximum restraint.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u426	Mr President, I have signed up to intervene immediately at the beginning of the work, so I will use my minute with all the freedom he gives me. The problem of housing in Portugal remains a scourge. in this sense, the extreme proposals either of the Liberal Initiative or of the Block of Left, which do not approach the interests of landlords and tenants, end up not finding a path that benefits both entities, but above all call the responsibility to whom effectively it is the State. Today, we have a portrait in which we are confronted with the fact that about 20,000 students, of the 50 000 students who were placed in the first phase of the National Access to Higher Education Competition, are displaced from their residence. What we deliver to these students is a highly inflated market. At this time, a young person to find a paid room 400 €—we are not talking about the price of a house, we are talking about the price of a room—and the National Plan for Accommodation in Higher Education clearly does not give the answers that are necessary. The burden, in our view, is not for the landlords, who should not be diabolized, but for the State to which it is responsible to guarantee a housing and public housing bag and also to create tools that benefit those who place their homes on the lease market. If there are no such instruments, what we are going to have is completely empty housing bags and we will once again be benefiting from the large real estate funds that invest in housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u427	Now, yes, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortagua to close the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u428	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I would say that, by ignoring some dramatic excesses, of those who have little opportunity to speak in plenary, there are some questions that I would like to clarify. [[Protests by CH Member Rita Matias.]] The Left Block does not propose to prevent local accommodation. We have nothing against local housing, we have nothing against private tourism initiative. I believe that local housing should be exercised freely outside urban pressure areas and should have rules in areas where there is a housing crisis. Especially those who have their own home who want to rent a few months a year must be able to do so. That, yes, is protecting the small owners. What the Left Block proposes is that, in these areas of tourist pressure—and the criterion here is exactly the same as it was adopted by the government when it limited the visasgold in relation to the purchase of houses— local accommodation can only be made in houses that are not intended for housing. Local housing is not at stake, the right to housing is at stake, and this is an important difference!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u429	All right! [[Protests by the Member of the IL Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u430	The problem of Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto is not with Mortágua — at least with the land Mortágua... — it is not with Olivence, it is not with Mealhada, because that is not where the business is. The problem of Mr. Carlos Guimarães Pinto is that the business in Lisbon, in Porto, in Coimbra, in Évora — business that is mobilized by large funds, is not by small owners!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u431	Yeah! [[Protests by the Member of the IL Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u432	And, yes, Mr. Member, yes, I care - with Lisbon! It's a problem! It's millions without access to housing. There are millions of young people who want a house and don't find it. It is a city where, between 2014 and 2016, the capacity to stay in local accommodation was 100 000 people, in a city with 500 000 people. Do you think that it is not important for there to be more local accommodation than houses to live in? Oh, my God! I think it's important! [[Protests by the Member of the IL Carlos Guimarães Pinto.]] It is equal to the Liberal Initiative, Mr Lisboa, that Lisbon is 3. the most expensive city in the world to live? It doesn't matter to us! Tourism is important, but it serves who, when it's unbridled? Houses are rehabilitated, but who can live there? There may be some jobs with the minimum wage, but who can pay the houses? I repeat, ladies and gentlemen. Members : local housing is not at stake, the private initiative is not at stake, it is at stake if the local accommodation and the private initiative are worth more than the right to housing. This is all that is at stake in this initiative! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u433	So we close this item on the agenda, and we will therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u434	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u435	Mr Rui Tavares asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u436	For an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u437	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u438	Mr President, it is strictly about the conduct of the work. I will be as soon as possible and I hope you only have to do this once! [[CH protests.]] I hope you can do it in a position to let everyone hear. It became a habit — it was already in the previous half of the legislative session and it is now also — that when, in particular, the Member of the Free, myself, arrives at the end of his speaking time, one of the benches calls for the fulfilment of the time,... [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u439	...even when, and just look at the picture,... [[CH protests.]] I'm sorry! I don't think it's this party that complains most about the conduct of the work. So, as I was saying, even when—and just look at the picture of the times—that prevaric bench more. [[CH protests.]] What I wanted to ask the Bureau is very simple. It's not a regiment about something someone's saying, it's a behavior more like what we have in a football stadium, when it makes sense that the referee ends the game. However, the conduct of the work, including respect for time, is up to the Bureau and not to the benches. Therefore, I would like to call on you to regularly remember the benches that this driving in relation to time is up to the Bureau and that, when it is not, the effect is exactly the opposite, because it takes everyone to need more time to finish talking.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u440	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u441	Mr Pedro Pinto asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u442	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u443	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u444	Mr President, what happened today in this plenary is not the first time that has happened. Mr President has one criterion and Mr. Vice-President Adam Silva has another criterion. What can't be changed in the middle of a debate. For example, Mr Frazão was interrupted at 5 seconds and the other Members were interrupted at 30 and 40 seconds. It's not about interrupting or not interrupting. We even think that times are limited and that more time should be given. There is no problem when the criterion is uniform. Now, there must be a criterion. There has to be a conversation between Mr. President and the Members. Vice-Presidents to establish a uniform criterion. I think that's good for arriving and it's good for all the benches here. So I think there has to be a criterion. With regard to what Mr Rui Tavares said, if anyone can't talk here in this Parliament, it is him because he always doubles the time!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u445	Triple!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u446	Mr President, an appeal is not a debate between Members! Therefore, the honourable Member shall make the request to the Bureau. Have you done it?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u447	That's what I'm doing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u448	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u449	What is at stake here is that the Free sometimes doubles time. If we were all going to double our time, it would be enough, instead of speaking 4 minutes, to speak 8. The PS, instead of talking 30 minutes, would talk for an hour. I mean, this is what happens. It's democracy working!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u450	Mesa manages the times!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u451	As far as Mr Rui Tavares is concerned, what I have to say is that he is the President-in-Office who determines when he can speak, giving him the floor, and when he has to finish. You must not obey anyone else, only the President who is holding the presidency at the sitting. As far as Mr Pinto is concerned, what I would like to say is that nine tenths of the issues he raises are resolved by the rules of civilization that we all know. In any case, at the next Conference of Leaders, we will address this issue because, in fact, there are some measures we have to take to ensure that discussions do not take so long and are more productive. I put this down, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to the vote. I call on the services to register in the electronic quorum verification system. [[Pause.]] I wonder if any of the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, besides myself, you are not being able to register. [[Pause.]] I think all of you. Members were able to register their presence electronically. I ask the Bureau to consider my own inability to register. We have quorum to proceed to the votes and we will begin by voting on the draft vote No 133 / XV / 1. a (as presented by CH) — Regret of the death of General João de Almeida Bruno. I would ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u452	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « It is with deep regret that the Assembly of the Republic marks the death of General John of Almeida Bruno. Born on July 30, 1935, in the parish of Santa Isabel, in the municipality of Lisbon, General João de Almeida Bruno was a student of the Military College, of the Army School, having completed the course of Cavalry in 1957, reached the post of Lieutenant-Coronel in 1973, by distinction for acts in combat, and that of Colonel in 1976. He served four missions in the overseas region, where he distinguished himself as a Field Assistant of the Governor and Commander-in-Chief in Guinea, and as Head of the Special Operations Centre and Commander of the African Battalion of Commands, which he founded in November 1972. For his involvement in the Caldas Movement he was arrested in the Trafaria until 25 April. He was arrested again between March and July 1975, with fixed residence until 25 November. General João de Almeida Bruno was Head of the Military House of the President of the António Republic of Spínola, Member of the State Council, Director of the Army Physical Education Service, Commander General of the Public Security Police, Director of the Cavalry Arms, Commander of the Southern Military Region and Military Academy, Inspector General of the Army and President of the Supreme Military Tribunal. Until he moved to reform on May 4, 1998, he was Honorary Director of the Cavalry Arms and a member of the Chancellorship of the Old Military Orders for the Order of the Tower and Sword. In Portugal, among other praises, General João de Almeida Bruno was thanked with the degree of Officer with Palma, of the Military Order of the Tower and Sword, decorated with the Silver Medal of Military Value with Palma, with two medals of the Cross of War(one of 1 ). the class and the other of 2. a ), thanks to the Great Cruz and as Commander of the Military Order of Avis and decorated with four medals for different services, including a gold medal. The recognition of his merit was also noted abroad, where he was thanked with the Great Cross of the Order of Merit of Federal Germany, the Great Cross of the Order of Merit of Austria, the Great Cross of the Order of Leopold II of Belgium, the Great Cross of the Order of the White River of Brazil, the Great Cross of the Order of Francisco Miranda of Venezuela, as the Grand Officer of the Order of Phoenix of Greece, the Great Officer of the Order of Merit of Italy and as the Commander Knight of the Order of the British Empire of the United Kingdom. for the services that brilliantly provided Portugal, the Assembly of the Republic, gathered in plenary, deeply regrets its death and addresses the family, friends and the Portuguese Army the most felt condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u453	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CH, the IL, the PAN and the L and with abstentions of the CFP and the BE.]] [[It's a shame!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u454	We moved on to the Vote Project No 147 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by the PSD ), regretting the death of Joaquim Manuel Oliveira Vila. To read it, I give the floor to Secretary Lina Lopes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u455	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Joaquim Manuel Oliveira Vila, president of the board of the Association of Volleyball of Porto for more than 40 years ago, died on July 25th. Altruistic, voluntary and philanthropic man, Joaquim Manuel Oliveira Vila was born on June 1, 1935, entered as a vowel in the direction of the Volleyball Association of Porto in 1977 and in 1981 was elected for his first term as president of the management, which he has assumed since then. His unmatched dedication to the Volleyball Association of Porto made him an election leader. The work carried out over decades, recognized by all, contributed considerably to the development of volleyball at both regional and national levels. Joaquim Manuel Oliveira Vila undoubtedly marked the sports panorama in Portugal, in particular volleyball, and its works were recognized by several entities. In 1992 he received the Sport Merit Medal awarded by the Portuguese Government to the Volleyball Association of the Port and in 1997 and 2004 the Osório Trophy of the Portuguese Volleyball Federation. Honored in 2000 by the Association of Volleyball of Madeira, for the dedication to minivoleibol, Joaquim Manuel Oliveira Vila was awarded in 2005 by the Confederation of Sports of Portugal, with the title of Sport Merit for Personality of the Year, in 2009 was credited with the Medal of Mérito (Grau Silver) of the City of Porto and in 2015 was decorated with the Gold Medal of Mérito of the City of Maia. To your family, friends and Association of Volleyball of the Port, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its sympathies. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u456	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Following the Vote Project No 148 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by the PSD ) — regretting the death of General Octávio Cerqueira Rocha. To read it, I give the floor to Mrs. Palmira Maciel.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u457	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He died last September 8th, at the age of 90, the former Chief of Army Staff, General Octávio Gabriel Calderon de Cerqueira Rocha. Natural of Lisbon, General Cerqueira Rocha was born in São Sebastião da Pedreira on 17 days of April 1932. He was Chief of the Army Staff ( CEME), between 1992 and 1997, having held other positions during his military career, including the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces in Madeira, Commander of the Madeira Military Zone, Military Headquarters and Army Deputy Chief of Staff. throughout a unique career, General Cerqueira Rocha received several decorations, including the Great Cross of the Military Order of Christ, the Great Cross of the Military Order of Avis, two gold medals of Distinct Services or two silver medals of Services Distinct with Palma. Honoring military values in all circumstances, General Cerqueira Rocha was an army man who faithfully served, marking him deeply. Studying, objective, practical, determined and loyal, to General Cerqueira Rocha, as Chief of the Army's Major State, we owe the ‘Army Strategy for a new direction’, which led to a profound reform of the Army, as never seen in the previous two decades. Very rightly, General Octávio Cerqueira Rocha is recognized as the latest army reformer. Their qualities of leadership and clarity, their determination, their experience and their impetus reformer have marked successive generations. The Army is mourning, the Portuguese Armed Forces are mourning. The country is mourning has lost one of its most remarkable soldiers and one of its most prominent citizens. For his example, for his brilliant career, for the high services provided to Portugal, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, evokes the memory of General Octávio Gabriel Calderon de Cerqueira Rocha, sending to his family, his friends and the Portuguese Army the most sympathy for his death. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u458	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We moved on to the Vote Project No 150 / XV / 1. a ( presented by PS ) — Regret for the death of Carlos Chaçador Durão. To read it, I give the floor to Mr. Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u459	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He died, at the age of 89, Carlos Căçador Durão, first President of the Municipal Chamber of Barrancos elected in democracy. The soul of the territories is formed by its geographical specificities, identity marks and experiences of the communities in the affirmation of the present and in the construction of the paths of the future. Barrancos, in the district of Beja, territory of Lower Alentejo, is stage of several identity marks resulting from the dynamics of the raiana communities, rurality and location in the national territory, having Carlos Căçador Durão knows how to represent and value this identity. He was the highest elected local representative of the people between 1 January 1977 and 31 December 1982. He served his people with important development marks for their land, at a time when the country, liberated from the New State, faced so many challenges, needs and individual and community ambitions. Carlos Chaçador Durão honored municipalism and democracy in a continuous effort to seek answers and solutions for people and for the territory and ambition in building greater social and territorial cohesion. Their legacy and example of commitment to the territory, with their people and with the affirmation of identity remain and will continue as part of the heritage acquis of a community, undeniably inspired by their civic participation in the fight against the challenges that persist in a racial, rural and far-off area of decision-making centres. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Carlos Căçador Durão, the first President of the Municipal Chamber of Barrancos elected in democracy, addressing his family and the community to express his deepest condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u460	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, with the absence of the NAP recorded.]] I greet the children and other family members here, addressing Parliament's condolences. Mrs. Members, we follow the draft vote No 152 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PS, PSD, CH and IL ) — regretting the death of Queen Isabel II. I ask Secretary Lina Lopes to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u461	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « On September 8, Queen Isabel II died at the age of 96. Queen of the United Kingdom, Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Isabel II ascended the throne on February 6, 1952, at the age of 26, having fulfilled 70 and thus being the longest monarch in British history. during its 70 years of reign, Queen Isabel II played, as a sovereign, a fundamental role for British democracy, having worked with the many governments in this long and diverse period. He personified, better than anyone else, the institutional role of the monarch of a constitutional monarchy. Being an irrefutable prestigious factor, both in the United Kingdom and in the entire community of Commonwealth countries, Isabel II fulfilled her reign with a superlative sense of duty and public service. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, evokes its memory and expresses its grief for the death of Queen Isabel II, addressing the royal family and all the British people the most felt condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u462	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CH, the IL, the PAN and the L and with abstentions of the CFP and the BE.]] Mrs Paula Santos is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u463	Mr President, it is to announce the delivery of a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u464	You are registered, Mrs. Deputy. We passed the Vote Project No. 153 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PS, PS, CH, IL, PCP, BE, PAN and L ) — Despite the death of Ana Luísa Amaral. I ask Secretary Palmira Maciel to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u465	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Last August 5th, died in Porto, Ana Luísa Amaral. He was 66 years old and was one of the most beloved and recognized authors of Portuguese poetry. Ana Luísa Amaral was a poet—because she had to be, as she said — having made a career at the university, where she was a retired professor at the Faculty of Letters of the Port, and she taught English and American Literature and Culture. She was also a translator of authors like Shakespeare, Louise Glück and Emily Dickinson, American about which she wrote her doctoral thesis. Ana Luísa Amaral published her first book of poems, My Lady of Quê, at the age of 34. Since then, he has left us more than three dozen books, a lot of poetry, but also theater, children's books or rehearsal. The literary value of his work has been consensually acclaimed, as well as the social and political importance of his work around feminist studies, which are among others examples of the essays on the New Portuguese Letters, or the Dictionary of Feminist Criticism, themes that marked his academic research and civic intervention. His unique poetic work, which helps us to unravel the world, and his course marked by the defense of freedom, the dignity of the person and gender equality, have been distinguished several times, both in Portugal and abroad, that they are an example of the recent decoration, by the President of the Republic, with the degree of Commander of the Order of Sant'Iago da Espada, the Literary Prize Currents d'Writtens, the Poetry Prize Foundation Rome, the Great Poetry Prize of the Portuguese Writers Association, the PEN Prize or the Ferreira Vergílio Prize. Among the many distinctions he received, in 2021, the Queen Sofia Prize of Ibero-American Poetry, for the significant contribution to the cultural heritage of the Ibero-American space (the third Portuguese to receive this prize), recognizing a work ‘of openness, respect, tolerance and claim’, taking into account the value of the small and daily, ‘as a revelation and a metaphysical experience, always from an experience of ethics, commitment to rights and freedoms and, above all, to make the voice of women heard’. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of poet Ana Luísa Amaral, addressing to his family and friends the most sorry condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u466	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] I also greet the daughter and other family members here and present the condolences of Parliament. Following the Voting Project No. 154 / XV / 1. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PS, PS, CH, IL, PAN and L ) — Regret for the death of Mikhail Sergeevitch Gorbachev. To proceed to your reading, I give the floor to Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u467	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Last August 30, Mikhail Gorbachev died at 91 years of age following prolonged illness. Russian statesman and politician was the leader of the 1988 Soviet Union until the dissolution of the Soviet regime in 1991. Its role was essential for the end of the Cold War and for the democratic transition in Eastern Europe after the fall of the Iron Curtain. Its contribution was crucial to Russia's openness to dialogue and to the world and to the dismantling of the tension and logic of confrontation that had marked the international order during much of World War II. It was also his action that allowed the populations of the countries of the Warsaw Pact and the nations of the former Soviet Union to be finally recognized the right to freely choose their destination. Political leader whose vision allowed the historical transformations that were in the genesis of the consolidation of a world order based on rules and based on the values of multilateralism and the peaceful resolution of disputes, left an indelible legacy for peace in Europe in the last two decades of the 20th century. He graduated in 1990 with the Nobel Peace Prize for his leadership and contribution to the peaceful resolution of international disputes and the role played in the approach between the West and the East. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of the former Soviet leader, addressing to his family and friends the most felt condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u468	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have voted on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CH, the IL, the PAN and the L, the votes against the CFP and the abstention from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u469	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u470	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u471	Mr President, the Bureau has certainly forgotten to mention that the son and daughter of General João de Almeida Bruno are also present here.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u472	Mr President, thank you very much for this information. I am sorry, but I did not have this record and therefore welcome the presence of family members and also, on behalf of the Assembly of the Republic, express our deepest condolences. The honourable Member is asking for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u473	Mr President, it is to announce the delivery of a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u474	You are registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, following the votes that we have just voted on, I would ask the whole House to accompany me in a minute of silence in honor of the people who are now honoured. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We shall proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 219 / XV / 1. a ( PAR) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Luanda. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the PCP and the L, votes against the CH and the IL and abstentions of the BE and the NAP.]] Mr Pedro Pinto asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u475	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that a statement of oral vote will be made by the Arrival as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u476	It's registered, Mr. Deputies. I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Members to stay in the Chamber, because we are voting. We are now voting on draft resolution No 220 / XV / 1. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to London. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will now vote for Parliamentary Inquiry No 2 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Possible Parliamentary Inquiry Commission on the credibility of the Annual Internal Security Reports submitted by the Government to the Assembly of the Republic. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L, votes against the CH and the IL and the abstention from the PSD.]] The vote on draft resolution No 154 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Possible Parliamentary Investigation Commission to clarify the causes of mortality for the years 2020 and 2021. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L, votes against the CH and the IL and the abstention from the PSD.]] We shall now vote, in general, on Law No 28 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Restructuring the Single Contact Point for International Police Cooperation. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS and against the PS, CH, IL, PCP, BE, PAN and L.]] The bill we just voted on is low to 1. the Commission. The general vote on the Bill No 33 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Determines the income update coefficient for 2023, creates extraordinary rental support, reduces VAT in the supply of electricity and establishes a transitional pension update regime. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against the IL, the PCP and the BE and abstentions against the PSD, the CH, the PAN and the L.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u477	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u478	Mr. Deputies, for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u479	Mr President, that is to say that the PSD will make a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u480	We will now vote, in general, on Bill No. 237 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Extraordinary housing protection regime against inflation. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS, the PS and the IL and votes against the CH, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] The general vote of Bill No. 247 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a (PAN) — Creates an excessive profit rate in the energy sector. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PAN and L, and abstentions against PCP and PS MP Alexandra Leitão and Isabel Alves Moreira.]] We will now vote, in general, on Bill No. 262 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Approves tax measures to encourage the use of collective transport by amending the IRS and the IRC Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of CH, IL, PCP, BE, PAN and L and abstention from the PSD.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 264 / XV / 1. a (CH) — It provides for a reduction in the VAT rate applicable to gas and electricity. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL and the BE and abstentions of the CFP, the NAP and the L.]] The general vote of Bill No 265 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( IL) — Reduction of electricity VAT to the reduced rate of 6 % ( amendment to the code of value added tax approved by Decree-Law No 394 - B / 84 of 26 December ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the CCP, the BE and the L and the NAP abstention.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 266 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Reduction of gas VAT to the reduced rate of 6 % ( amendment to the value added tax code approved by Decree-Law No 394 - B / 84 of 26 December ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the CCP, the BE and the L and the NAP abstention.]] We will now vote, in general, on Bill No. 271 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Encourages the acquisition of energy-efficient equipment ( amendment to list i of the value added tax code approved by Decree-Law No 394 - B / 84 ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the BE, the PAN and the L and the PCP abstention.]] Let us then, in general, vote on Bill No. 273 / XV / 1. a (BE) — establishes an additional rate on extraordinary profits of large companies in the banking, energy and food distribution sectors. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against the PCP, BE, PAN and L and abstentions by PS MPs Alexandra Leitão and Isabel Alves Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u481	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u482	Sir, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u483	Mr President, I would just like to make a statement of vote, which will be delivered in writing on my behalf and on behalf of the other Members of the Socialist Youth. Deputies Pedro Anastácio, Tiago Soares Monteiro, Eduardo Alves and Eunice Pratas.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u484	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u485	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u486	Mrs. Isabel Alves Moreira, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u487	Mr President, with regard to this draft law and the draft law of the NAP on the same subject, I and Mrs Alexandra Leitão have already sent a statement of vote to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u488	We then proceed to the general vote on Bill No 274 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Reduces VAT in the supply of electricity and gas bottled or channeled for consumption. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the CCP, the BE and the L and the NAP abstention.]] The vote on draft resolution No 195 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government extend the conditions for access to the social electricity tariff and the social natural gas tariff. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We will now vote for draft resolution No 196 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government approve the maximum marketing margins door for simple fuels. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected, votes against the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the PSD.]] We now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 205 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government provide for measures to encourage the use of collective transport and to reduce the use of fossil fuels within the framework of the energy saving plan to be submitted to the European Commission. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the CH.]] The vote on draft resolution 207 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government approve a sustainable mobility programme for public administration for the period 2023 - 2028. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the IL, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the PS and the CH abstentions.]] We will now vote for the Resolution Project No. 209 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — It proposes emergency measures to combat the increase in cost of living and the worsening of injustices and inequalities. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, BE and L and abstention from the NAP.]] The vote was followed by motion for a resolution No 2 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — proposes to the Assembly of the Republic for ratification the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of the Republic of Finland, signed in Brussels on 5 July 2022. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PS, CH, IL, PAN and L and votes against the CFP and BE.]] We will now vote on the motion for a resolution No 3 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ) — proposes to the Assembly of the Republic the approval for ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of the Kingdom of Sweden, signed in Brussels on 5 July 2022. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PS, CH, IL, PAN and L and votes against the CFP and BE.]] [[Upstairs, PS, PSD, CH, IL, L and PAN applause.]] The general vote on Bill No. 199 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Disbursement of the monthly statement of remuneration to the Tax Authority and to Social Security. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the CCP, the BE and the NAP and the L abstention.]] The Bill No. 200 / XV / 1 is then voted in general. a ( IL) — exempts small and medium-sized enterprises from the obligation of permanent inventory ( amendment to Decree-Law No 158 / 2009 of 13 July ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the CCP, the BE and the NAP and the L abstention.]] The general vote of Bill No 201 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( IL) — Possible quarterly reporting of income due to non-resident taxable persons ( amendment to the Tax Code on the Income of Single Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the BE were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH, the IL and the NAP and the L abstention.]] The general vote of Bill No 202 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Simplifies the recovery of VAT in the case of doubtful recovery claims ( amendment to the value added tax code approved by Decree-Law No 394 - B / 84 of 26 December ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the BE were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH, the IL and the NAP and the L abstention.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 203 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — It makes it easier to obtain a regularized tax statement ( amendment to the Code of Procedure and Tax Procedure approved by Decree-Law No 433 / 99 of 26 October ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the IL, the CCP, the PAN and the L and the AE abstention.]] The general vote of Bill No. 269 / XV / 1. a (CH) — Reorganisation of tax reporting obligations in IRC and VAT. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the L were rejected, votes against the CH, IL and the NAP and abstentions against the PSD and BE.]] The Bill No 270 / XV / 1 is now generally voted. a (PAN) — Clarifies the application of the VAT exemption in respect of all services performed in the exercise of the profession of psychologist by means of an interpretative standard of the VAT code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of CH, IL, PAN and L and abstentions from PSD, PCP and BE.]] The general vote of Bill No 272 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( L) — Allows the delivery of a single monthly statement of remuneration to the Tax and Customs Authority and Social Security. [[The vote was taken with votes against the PS and votes against the PS, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L.]] We will now vote, in general, on Bill No. 30 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Exclusive dedication scheme in the National Health Service. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CH and the IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the PSD.]] The general vote of Bill No. 268 / XV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( CH) — Amendment to Decree-Law No 52 / 2022 of 4 August to ensure the right to health of citizens and to amend the full dedication regime. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the CFP, the BE and the L, votes against the CH and abstentions from the PSD, the IL and the NAP.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 276 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — System of exclusivity in the National Health Service. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CH and the IL were rejected, votes against the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the PSD.]] We will generally vote for Bill No 107 / XV / 1. a ( BE ) — Ensures the right to housing, protecting the use of fractions for housing purposes. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against the BE and L and abstentions against the CFP and the NAP.]] We continue with the general vote of Bill No 55 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Clarifies the Legal Regime of the Exploration of Local Housing Establishments ( amendment to Decree-Law No 128 / 2014 of 29 August ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, PCP, BE and L were rejected, votes against the CH and IL and abstention from the NAP.]] The vote on draft resolution No 135 / XV / 1 is now under way. a (L), which is the subject of a PS request for breakdown by points in the vote. Let's vote on the request. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us therefore divide by points the vote on draft resolution No 135 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Recommends that the Government accompany the Conference on the Future and the European Parliament, favouring the convening of a Convention on the Review of the Treaties of the European Union at the European Council. Let's start by voting point 1. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CFP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH, the NAP and the L and abstentions against the IL and the BE.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 2. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CH, IL, BE, PAN and L and the abstention from the CFP.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No 74 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government define the formulas for financing the expenditure of competences in the field of education transferred to municipalities in the decentralization process and assess the need for approval of a new legal school transport system. We shall vote in unbundled terms for this diploma at the request of the NAP. We shall vote on point 1. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the IL.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 2. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]] The vote on point 3 shall follow. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the IL.]] Finally, we shall vote on point 4. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CH, the CFP, the BE, the NAP and the L and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u489	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u490	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u491	Mr President, it is to inform us that we will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u492	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall continue with the vote on draft resolution No 163 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Incentive to the use of reusable materials in fairs, romaria, festivals, parties and public and private events. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PS, the IL and the PCP, with votes against the BE, the NAP and the L and the abstention from the CH.]] We shall vote in a global final vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on the Environment and Energy on draft resolutions 33 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — ProSolos - Prevention of contamination and soil remediation and 111 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Recommends the updating and publication of ProSolos legislation — prevention of soil contamination and remedying — and the resumption of the process of the Framework Directive on Soils in the European Union. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CH, the IL, the PCP, the BE, the PAN and the L and the PS abstention.]] In the overall final vote we shall also vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on the Environment and Energy on draft resolutions Nos 98 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Consecrating May 25 as National Garden Day and celebrating the legacy of Gonçalo Ribeiro Telles in the protection of the environment and in the promotion of quality of life, 126 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Set up May 25 as the National Garden Day and 145 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Consecrate on May 25 as National Garden Day. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] There are two gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen who had asked to intervene. Mr. Pedro Pinto, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u493	Mr President, I had asked to make an oral vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u494	All right. And is Mrs Inês de Sousa Real to what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u495	Mr President, it is in order to correct the vote on draft vote No 133 / XV / 1. the, submitted by the Arrival. Despite not changing the outcome of the vote, I mean that the NAP did not vote in favour, it abstained.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u496	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. To present the oral vote, Mr Pedro Pinto, from the Czech Republic, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u497	Mr. President, nothing moves us against Mr. President of the Republic, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, but at a time when the country is experiencing a deep crisis, where 4 million Portuguese are at the threshold of poverty, where chaos in health and with the burning country, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa does not stop walking around the world. In six years you've already made 105 trips! We know that diplomacy is important, but if we remember other presidents of the Republic, for example, Mário Soares, Ramalho Eanes and Cavaco Silva, the three together did not make 105 trips. So it's almost unworthy of what's going on. The Portuguese, at home, do not understand why the President of the Republic continues to walk from one side to the other. There are important and fundamental diplomatic journeys and the one to go — for example, Queen Elizabeth II’s State Funeral — but there are others that do not make sense, for example, to visit an exhibition in London or the Netherlands. It doesn't make sense for the President of the Republic to go there. Therefore, we make this statement of vote in relation to Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u498	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u499	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u500	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that I was present in the votes but I was unable to register.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u501	The Bureau received the indication from three Mrs. Members who have not only been able to register, how have they not been able to answer my question « have they been able to register? Do not keep on seeking. ” We will follow the old maximum of Jorge Luís Borges, according to which « there is always an infinite within an infinite, within an infinite», and the Services will add the three Mrs. Members of the quorum checklist. I now ask the Secretary of the Bureau, Maria da Luz Rosinha, to announce the file. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u502	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, Bill No. 265 / XV / 1. a ( IL) and Draft Resolution No 228 / XV / 1. a ( CH). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-09-16.u503	The next plenary session will be on Wednesday, 21 September, and the order of business is Interpellation No 2 / XV / 1. a (CH) — On successive failures in the fight against fires. I inform the House that, as the Regional Legislative Assembly of Madeira does not hold plenary sessions or any parliamentary work on the day of national mourning, the intervention I would make next Tuesday in this House will be held on Wednesday and, therefore, will be Mr. Vice-President Adam Silva conducting the work here during this interview. I wish you a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 15 hours and 8 minutes.]]
