ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late. We are in a position to begin the session, since we have quorum and representatives of all parliamentary committees are already present. The session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 10 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the galleries to the public. I would ask the Secretary of Bureau Palmira Maciel to read the file. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. First, I refer to Law No 19 / XV / 1. a ( GOV ), which drops to 1. the Commission. The Bill No. 184 / XV / 1 was also introduced into the Bureau. a ( CH ), which falls to 2. the Commission, in connection with 8. the Commission, 185 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission, 187 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 188 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 189 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 14. the Commission, 190 / XV / 1. a ( CH ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 191 / XV / 1. a ( L), 192 / XV / 1. a ( BE), 193 / XV / 1. a ( BE), 194 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 9. the Commission, 195 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 13. the Commission, in connection with 10. the Commission, 196 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 13. the Commission, in connection with 9. a and 10. a Commissions, and 197 / XV / 1. a ( PAN ), which falls to 13. the Commission, in connection with 9. a and 10. the Commission. The draft Resolution Nos 133 / XV / 1 have also been added to the Bureau. a ( CH), 134 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), 135 / XV / 1. a ( L ), which falls to 4. the Commission, 136 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 137 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 2. the Commission, 138 / XV / 1. a ( L), 139 / XV / 1. a ( L) and 140 / XV / 1. a ( PSD ), which drops to 6. the Commission, in connection with 7. a and 11. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u3	Let us then get on the agenda, the first of which is the debate under Article 4(1) ( c ). the Law of Monitoring, Appreciation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic, in the framework of the European Union Construction Process, on the priorities of the Czech Presidency. Mr Tiago Antunes spoke for the opening of the debate on behalf of the Government. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Czech Presidency of the Council of the European Union is about to begin and the sensitivity of the moment will require all of us the availability and spirit of collaboration needed at this time. Inserted into the trio of presidencies which was inaugurated by France at the beginning of this year, the Czech Presidency will take up functions with a very different reality from what was seen in the trio programme. Of course, having been presented at the end of 2021, this programme focused mostly on the economic and social recovery of the Member States, after the impacts and consequences generated by the pandemic. But on February 24, 2022 — more specifically, the morning of February 24 — came to change not only the life of one country, which was suddenly and unjustly invaded by another, but also of the whole European project and its priorities. The European Union has joined the EU in its political, humanitarian, financial and military support, and has decided, as it is known at the last European Council, to assign to it the status of a candidate country for accession to the European Union. At the same time, it has already applied six sanctions packages to Russia and its allies. All of this unanimously, on a united, supportive and firm front. A Europe that does not hesitate, which reinvents itself to find the necessary solutions and knows without fear which side it must be on. A European Union that does not ignore the social and economic consequences of a war at its door in our day-to-day life. And therefore, understandably, the management of the impact of war on Ukraine will be a central concern of the Czech Presidency, which has already defined five specific priorities for the next six months: the management of the refugee crisis and the recovery of Ukraine in post-war; energy security; the strengthening of Europe's defence and cybersecurity capabilities; the strategic resilience of the European economy; and the resilience of its democratic institutions. A multidimensional realization of the message that the Czech Presidency itself concludes, citing, moreover, a great European, Václav Havel: « Europe as a task: rethink, rebuild, restor». On the first of these priorities, the management of the refugee crisis and the recovery of Ukraine in the post-war period, the Czech Presidency will focus on maintaining the European Union as a relevant actor in support of the Ukrainian people and the condemnation of Russia, either through the continuation of the sending of military, humanitarian and financial aid, or in the application of sanctions to Russia and its allies. The European Union faces the greatest wave of refugees since the end of World War II and the Czech Presidency proposes to mobilize and coordinate all the resources necessary for their integration and reception into European soil. It will do so, paying special attention to refugee children, who will need all support for integration into schools and access to decent education. in this first priority, there is also the concern of providing Ukraine with all the resources necessary for its recovery and reconstruction in the post-war period, which we hope can begin as soon as possible. With regard to energy security, the second priority of the Czech Presidency, it is important to mention the difficult but rapid path that the European Union has already travelled in this short period of time, particularly around the REPowerEU plan. The war in Ukraine has shown that the European Union cannot depend on Russia for the supply of energy and the Czech Presidency's mission will now be to ensure the progressive and rapid empowerment and modernisation of the European Union in the energy sector. And since there is no energy security without energy transition, it is important that the goals and objectives of the Fit for 55 package be observed at all stages of this process. Yesterday, on 28 June, in the Council (Environment), we had a realisation of this package, which is very important to achieve the objectives of the European Ecological Pact. And Portugal has all the conditions to be a central actor in this transition. Thirdly, the Czech Presidency will seek to strengthen the defence capacity of the European Union, in particular through partnership with NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ). It is essential to solidify and modernise the European Union and its defence industry. This reinforcement cannot fail to look at new ways of defending the territories, with a particular impact on cybersecurity, as an increasingly essential resource to detect threats or prevent attacks. Fourthly, the Czech Presidency will give priority to economic resilience. First, with the pandemic and then with the war in Ukraine, the European Union has seen its vulnerabilities and dependence on unstable global supply chains, which we do not control. Moreover, European markets and economies are experiencing a phase of great uncertainty about the future and inflation is already a worrying reality in all Member States. Therefore, Czechia will have as one of the guiding axes of its presidency the reindustrialisation and industrial modernization of the European Union, but also the creation of the conditions and tools necessary to address the risks of economic crisis arising from the current geopolitical situation. in this context, the Czech Presidency also intends to give a renewed breath to the negotiation and conclusion of important trade agreements with other countries and regions of the globe. The fifth priority of the Czech Presidency, the resilience of the democratic institutions of the Union, perhaps less directly related to the war in Ukraine, but will certainly be one of the most recurrent issues in the European debate of the future. The Czech Republic will, of course, follow the path initiated by the Conference on the Future of Europe and discuss some of the ideas proposed by the European citizens at that headquarters. The priorities of the Czech Presidency of the Council will be basically also the priorities of the Portuguese Government over the next six months. We hope to count on the Assembly of the Republic, with all of you on this path. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u5	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's start the stage of the debate. For the Socialist Party, you have the floor, first of all, Mr Luís Capoulas Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u6	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State for European Affairs, Mr and Mr. Members: We are here today discussing the programme of the Second Czech Presidency of the Council of the European Union, which seeks to frame in the light of the present context the programme of the trio of presidencies — France, Czechia and Sweden — of December 2021, which in turn aims to implement the European Union's Strategic Agenda for 2019 - 2024. We were able, at least, to imagine that the Czech Presidency would start in the second half of 2022, at 129. the day of an unacceptable and unjustifiable war in Europe, which represents the greatest violation of the UN Charter ( United Nations ) and the possible collapse of international order, which has assured the European continent the greatest period of peace that its entire history has known. This unjust and criminal war, which for more than four months has plagued innocent, civilian and military victims, and which destroys methodically and surgically the entire infrastructure of an entire country, whose only desire is to live outside the orbit of Moscow, which in its territory has already committed the greatest crimes, that the Holodomor, which in Ukrainian means 'to starve', is one of the most hateful: more than 3 million Ukrainians died, in 1932 and 1933, ironically, in Europe's barn, because the Russians literally stole their crops. The nearing of the winter rigours of the latitudes of the centre of Europe shows a humanitarian catastrophe of great proportions, in addition to that it begins to settle in the poorest countries, due to the escalation of food prices and, in particular, cereals. We therefore see the explosion of clouds that can lead to the perfect storm, taking into account that the conditions for peace are not seen in the short term. Even yesterday, the Russian side reaffirmed that its only condition for this is the unconditional capitulation of Ukraine. It is not surprising, therefore, that the priorities of the Czech Presidency of the Council are essentially focused on the attempt to respond to the crisis caused by Russia and by the COVID-19, which we have almost forgotten. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group can therefore not fail to agree with the priorities of the presidency, without prejudice to the in-depth debate that we will hold, in committee on 12 July, with the Ambassador of the Czech Republic. Thus, without failing to congratulate the Government on the solidarity, constructive and responsible position it has taken during this crisis and, taking into account the current context and also in the light of the conclusions of the last European Council, which has granted the status of the candidate country in practice to three new States, thereby raising in the short term seven or eight countries in this condition - which will inevitably mean, as recently said by the Prime Minister, significant changes in the budgetary and institutional architecture of the European Union - I would like to ask you if the Portuguese Government expected a country in the presidency of the Council at this time to be able to influence the opening of a process of review of treaties. I recall that the current and likely short-term candidate countries represent a population of almost 150 million people and that between 2004 and 2007 we joined 12 new Member States, which corresponded to about 100 million others. All these countries are and will be net beneficiaries of the European Union budget. Mr Secretary of State, will the European Union survive such an impact? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u7	Mr Natália Oliveira, from the PS Parliamentary Group, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u8	Mr President, Dear Members of the Government, Mrs Deputies and Mrs Deputies. Members: Europe represents, for each European, the hope and security of a common area of peace, democracy, freedom, social justice, the rule of law and environmental responsibility. This is the experience of the European project Portugal has had over the past 36 years, which the Czech Republic has had over the past 18 years and is still the aspiration of candidate countries for the European Union, including Ukraine, especially at the time we live, where these values are threatened by the Russian Federation. The war is back and the tragic history it involves has sensitized and mobilized us all Europeans. The humanitarian and economic consequences are already suffering and felt throughout Europe, especially by our partners in Eastern Europe, such as Czechia, who now presides over the Council of the European Union. It is therefore natural that the Czech Presidency will lead the European Union to focus on the problems arising from the invasion of Ukraine, but also on the urgent response needed to ensure Europe's security and resilience in the face of this complex crisis. The Prime Minister of the Czech Republic has committed - in this presidency of the Council of the European Union - to assist Ukraine in all possible ways, to cut European dependence on Russian energy and to reduce high inflation as a direct consequence of Putin's war on the Western world. The Portuguese and Portuguese Government have demonstrated exemplary solidarity in helping Ukraine in any way, particularly in the management of this humanitarian crisis and in welcoming refugees in Portugal. Portugal has over 37,000 refugees this past month, including 4000 children in Portuguese schools. In addition to this immediate aid, we know that Portugal has the means to contribute to supporting Europe in this process necessary to cut our dependence on Russian energy. This involves a process of strengthening economic resilience and shared energy sovereignty between Member States. This process is due to the acceleration of decarbonisation and investment in renewable energy. In January and March, the Portuguese explicitly elected the Socialist Party and this government with a programme whose first strategic challenge was precisely to respond to climate change in an ambitious way. The targets we have set and we have anticipated for the increase of renewable energy in electricity and energy production are a national commitment that allows Portugal to place itself in a competitive position to contribute to the reduction of the European Union's external dependence on fossil fuels and, in particular, on imports from the Russian Federation. Portugal has always met the challenges of deepening and strengthening the European project and, at the moment of war, reconfiguration of our single market, we also want to strengthen our role as co-authors of the new European Union, which we need to build better in response to this unique context.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u9	Mrs. Deputy, you have to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u10	Mr. Secretary of State James Antunes, our Prime Minister, in the first months of war, touched us and represented us when he said that every day of war was another day of pain for Portugal and Europe. Given these priorities and our commitment to peace and support for post-war recovery, what active role should Portugal play within this new Czech Presidency of the European Union? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u11	To speak on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Sérgio Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We welcome the presidency of the Czech Republic and trust it to succeed. The tremendously demanding times that we have gone through, and that have changed Europe and the world, will surely be a strong stimulus to a determined and clear leadership of the European Union by the new presidency. at a time when European values were brutally challenged by Russia, the presidency of the Council of the European Union could not be in better hands. The Czech people also felt in the flesh an imperialist invasion of their territory, when the Soviet tanks took Prague in 1968 to put an end to any democratic vegetation that then germinated in Czechoslovakia. It is inspiring that Václav Havel is giving the motto for the presidency's programme, which was one of the great workers of the Velud Revolution, which guaranteed, through the peaceful way, the transition to democracy in Czechoslovakia, in 1989. Today, as then, we live historical times with profound geopolitical impact. So, auspicious and exciting events, such as the fall of the Berlin Wall, the end of the Soviet empire and the spread of democracy to the east of Europe, led years later in 2004 to great enlargement and European unification. A Europe that, in the wise words of Pope John Paul II, finally «breathed with two lungs». Today, events of terror, barbarism and unprecedented human suffering, with the war again in Europe, could have no other consequence than the prospect of a new enlargement, with Ukraine at the top of the list. Today, as then, vision, leadership and the perception of the historical moment that we live are required. Today, with the Maastricht Treaty, it will be inevitable to re-found the European project or, using the terms set out in the document presenting the priorities of the presidency of the Czech Republic, to rethink and rebuild Europe. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are pleased with the nomination of Ukraine and the clear position of the President of the European Commission, who, from the very first moment on, has never ceased to fight for this status. The same is true of the Government of the Czech Republic, which has consistently included this objective in the programme of its presidency. As far as the Portuguese Government is concerned, we cannot fail to express our total misunderstanding by the opposite position which it has assumed, of reluctance and reluctance,... [[PSD applause.]] ... of almost opposition to the granting of the status of candidate to Ukraine, reflecting its position only at the last hour, so as not to speak alone.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u14	What is the impediment to leaving Ukraine behind the initiative to start the complex reform process that will lead to accession? Oh, my God! It is said, moreover, that if Ukraine's will to carry out the profound changes needed to meet the accession criteria, it is the same as the one it has shown to fight the invader, I believe that it will not be necessary so many years for the Union's entry door to be opened.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u16	How can it be reticent when Ukraine pays with a lot of blood poured out its choice for Europe? Oh, my God! How can there be any doubt, when the heroic Ukrainian people struggle with everything they have so as not to be subject to Putin's totalitarian power? Oh, my God! How can it be reluctant, when the status of candidate is a strong sign of solidarity with Ukraine and a powerful factor of moralization and courage for its brave fighters who fight for the freedom of the Ukrainian people, but also for our freedom? Oh, my God! The Prime Minister said that we could not frustrate Ukraine's expectations with a process of accession that could be eternalized.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u17	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u18	But the greatest frustration would not be to close the door to them now, denying them what they are fighting for? Oh, my God! The Government and, in particular, the Prime Minister, António Costa, seem to have not yet realized how deeply the European and global order has changed and the need for the European Union to increasingly assume itself as a geopolitical entity. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The months of the presidency of the Czech Republic will be tough and challenging. The ways and priorities that he proposes to us are inconceivable. Mining European unity will continue to be Putin's great purpose. Making western public support for the Ukrainian cause is central to the Russian strategy. So let us not neglect the support of the most vulnerable, whipped by galloping inflation, which has been severely taxed by this unfair hidden tax. And, here, the government can do much more, not giving up on the policies of hardened austerity. The results of the last summits — European Council, G7 (Group of Seven) and NATO — are in the right direction: they demonstrate strength and determination to contain the Russian threat and give us reasons to be confident. Endurance and resilience are expected from all of us. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u19	Mr Ventura has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u20	Mr President, I have just learned that you have not admitted to the discussion another draft of the laws of the Republic, which is a bad sign for you and, following what your predecessor did, I think it is a political bad practice, which does not dignify the Assembly of the Republic. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u21	Mr Secretary of State, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Members: This debate is marked by the Socialist Party's inability to define what it wants for Ukraine, which is not strange, since, a few months ago, we heard the leader of the Socialist Youth, Mr. Miguel Matos, saying that if he had to choose between the elected president of the United States and the Chinese dictator, he preferred the Chinese dictator. [[CH's laughs.]] We therefore understand the hesitation of the Socialist Party between being on the side of democracies or on the side of tyranny. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It's true! But, Mr Secretary of State, I think at least for the sake of democracy and clarity, the Socialist Party must understand itself. We had Antonio Costa, Prime Minister, saying that Ukraine's accession to the European Union is not the best option. The Prime Minister of Portugal! We have Mr. Under-Secretary-General of the Socialist Party, Mr. Tiago Antunes, saying that « it is necessary to take action, with realism and speed! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PS protests.]] I'm sorry, it's Mr. João Torres. It's not a misunderstanding, it's really lapse. We have other Members of the Socialist Party saying that they are in favour of Ukraine's accession to the European Union, and now we have Mr Capoulas Santos asking whether the European Union will survive this accession. Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the PS may have the position to understand, but it is appropriate to have one position and not one, one day, another day, another, another, and another, another day! Convenient! [[Congrats from the CH.]] It is appropriate that the Prime Minister — who should be here today, but is not — because he is the holder of this folder, and not the Secretary of State, say what Portugal is going to do about this, so that we are not going to be ashamed of shame in the European Union, with the Prime Minister saying something, the Secretary of State saying another and the Parliament listening to Mr Zelenskyy and saying 'Yes, sir, we all agree! » We all agree, the tanas! No one agrees, because the government does not agree! That is why it is time for the Socialist Party to define itself on this matter and, therefore, Mr Secretary of State, forgive me for addressing you in these terms, but you cannot leave this Parliament today, except in other words! — without clarifying to this House what the Government's position on Ukraine's accession to the European Union is. It is simple: what is the Government's position on this matter? [[Congrats from the CH.]] I would also like to tell you, Mr Secretary of State, now and after this huge circus that we had around Turkey to veto the accession of Sweden and Finland to NATO, which is good for the government to assume once and for all its position on Turkey's accession to the European Union. It is only in 2018 that it was clear from the Council of General Affairs of the European Union that Turkey has strayed from European values and that the Prime Minister does not seem to want to give signs or answers in this regard. So I ask you: what is the Government's position on Turkey's accession to the European Union? Finally, Mr Secretary of State, another subject which is already a little melodious to bring here every day, which is the fact that all the countries of the European Union are lowering VAT (value added tax) on fuels and electricity and the Government says that it cannot do the same because of the European Commission and the European Union. We've started to look a little crazy in Europe! Spain has just dropped VAT again to the minimum rate and we are paying it on the bomb, which is what socialists like! We pay and they live on this! It's already costing a while! It costs a bit! [[Congrats from the CH.]] So, Mr Secretary of State, I ask you directly: when are we going to put an end to this report, that the European Union does not allow, and finally, to have the courage to lower taxes for Portuguese people, because they deserve - in and the government should do so? Oh, my God! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u22	Mr President, since you referred to my order not to admit the bill submitted by the Arrival, I confirm that you have not admitted it. It was a bill that sought to restore life imprisonment in Portugal, flagrantly violating article 30. that of the Constitution, and therefore did not admit it, as I will not, under any circumstances, admit bills that flagrantly violate the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] You have the floor, for an intervention, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Diogo Pacheco de Amorim.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : The Czech Republic begins its Presidency of the European Union in one of the most troubled periods in Europe since the end of World War II. On the one hand, a large-scale conflict, and in the heart of its territory, confronts European peoples today with one of the most challenging moments in its recent history. On the other hand, an inflationary process at risk of lack of control, food shortages and worrying raw materials and the unsustainable short-term cost of fuels and other sources of energy is causing the worst to fear the European economy. Given this gloomy picture, the challenges for the Czech Presidency are great, especially since it will take place during the most critical period of war, in which the swing between a possible resolution and an inevitable escalation will be intensified. It is also a crucial period for defining measures, priorities and actions aimed at finding a secure way to enable the European Union to overcome this moment of special tension and economic uncertainty, but above all geo-strategic. The motto for this presidency — « Europe as a task: rethinking, rebuilding, reviving » —, inspired by Václav Havel, points to a hard but necessary and difficult task. May the path found to achieve it be solid, prudent and secure, for the greatest good of Europe, but above all for the greatest good of all European peoples. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u24	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative Parliamentary Group, Mr Bernardo Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first question is simple: where is Mr Prime Minister? Once again, we are discussing European affairs — your portfolio — and Mr Prime Minister is not here. It is not a folder to which we thank you, Mr Prime Minister, who wanted to keep it, but whenever we discuss European matters here, Mr Prime Minister is not here. And if I already had other commitments, I am sorry, but then this debate could not have been marked for today. Mr Prime Minister was here last week in plenary, but of the five questions I asked about European affairs, he didn't answer one. So far, to the Committee on European Affairs, which is a folder of yours — and unfortunately, I have hit a lot on this — it has come up zero times. This is a committee without a minister, something which is in breach of the Rules of Procedure and which is even more serious at the time we are, which is one of the most important in recent European history. So I ask: where is Mr. Prime Minister? It is that, when it is to travel Europe and take the credit for the status of candidate in front of the televisions, we have Mr. Prime Minister ; when it is to come to Parliament, give clarification to the Members and answer the questions, Mr. Secretary of State always comes. [[Applause from the IL.]] As regards the priorities of the presidency, which I repeat have never been discussed without the Minister for Foreign Affairs — before, the Minister for Foreign Affairs — I would like to say that, obviously, the Liberal Initiative is fully in line with the first priority on Ukraine. I am referring, in particular, to the fifth priority, which we consider to be most important, concerning democratic institutions and European values. In the document they are expressed, and well, not only the rights in the physical world, but also in the digital world, and this is where I begin. There is a proposal from the European Commission on sexual abuse of children online, which is obviously a matter of concern, but in practice what it proposes is to make social media companies a sort of police spies from the States, responsible for monitoring, collecting and collecting information, messages, chat and e-mailing and sending all this to Europol and to the Member States, so as not to be fined. Obviously, we are against this proposal. This is a serious violation of the right to privacy, which conditions freedom of expression and violates the right to correspondence, and several European associations and parties have already expressed themselves against it. Thus, our first request is that the Government, in all European bodies, should report on this matter and manifest itself against, after having studied the matter, because rights no longer exist only in the physical world, but also in the digital world, as the Czech Presidency document rightly states. As regards the third priority on defence, I would like to say that we also agree with the words expressed by the Secretary of State. We obviously need to work with NATO to ensure European defence, but we cannot also be dependent on countries that constitute a major geopolitical risk, as defined, and well in the European Union's Strategic Compass. We cannot be dependent, especially on technology supply chains, from countries such as China and Russia, which are authoritarian countries. over the last two years, this has been very much discussed in plenary. Mr Prime Minister has often escaped, and today I cannot ask you this question either, but I would like to know the Government's position on this issue of European autonomy. I conclude very quickly with regard to the second priority, which is energy, asking a question to Mr. Secretary of State. With regard to the Renewable Energy Directive, we are a year and a short time ago without the RED ( Renewable Energy Directive ) II, which has not yet been transposed ; in Europe, RED III is already being discussed and in Portugal has not even been transposed to RED II. I therefore wonder what the government is doing in this area and why this process is not yet completed. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u26	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : As part of the priorities of the Czech Presidency of the European Union, we have left some emphasis, even considering the interventions that have already been made. The objectives of this presidency on energy or energy security are deeply revealing the defence of the interests of large capital, without any problem in replacing existing energy dependencies by others, in particular the United States. Moreover, it is secondary measures for energy transition, which is revealing that there is no real intention to solve energy dependence problems in the Member States of the European Union. The redirection of energy dependence from a number of countries in the European Union — particularly for the United States — especially on fossil fuels or gas, with more expensive and more environmental-impact solutions, also revealed the widespread environmental concerns of the European Union, which in practice do not exist. The vast majority of gas coming from the United States of America is extracted through fracking, a technique of extraction of controversial hydrocarbons, due to its very negative environmental impact, which has been banned in several European countries, such as the United Kingdom and even Spain. By using this technique, the United States is expected to be the largest gas exporter in 2022. For the CFP, the energy dependence problems we also have in our country do not resolve by transferring this dependence to other parts of the globe, require, yes, clear measures and commitments to promote national production, reindustrialisation and, of course, public control of strategic sectors, as is also the energy sector. But there is another emphasis on this presidency, particularly in view of the marked increase in the cost of living and the lack of response to the problems faced by workers and peoples. The resolution of these problems is not, at all, a priority of this presidency, but by channelling resources for greater investment in military capacity, while the loss of purchasing power and impoverishment spread in the Member States of the European Union. We also point out that the path taken, which deepens free trade and transatlantic relations with the United States, the creation of greater dependencies like this country, at supply chains level, the recovery of agreements, so far blocked, such as Mercosur ( Common Market of the South), will have devastating impacts on workers, families and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, particularly in our country. The deepening of the single market, in its various aspects, particularly in digital services, is an option contrary to the interests of the peoples and brings into question sovereignty. on this path, the mercantilist approach of data, in which it is intended to create a supposedly fair market, is no longer aimed at delivering them to multinationals so that with them they can do business and gain profits. Moreover, the recently announced agreement between the European Union and the United States on access to data from citizens for surveillance and trade is elucidative. With less data protection guarantees, with the marketing of data, which is clearly assumed, this agreement is no longer aimed at providing data from citizens to the United States for commercial purposes. The priorities of this presidency are in line with the priorities of the French Presidency within the framework of the trio of presidencies which also include Sweden. This is about deepening neoliberalism, militarism and federalism, greater investment in militarization and cooperation with NATO, but not a reference, with the exception of energy prices, to the problems faced by workers and peoples. There are references to inflation, but none to its impact on living conditions, no path to energy prices, food prices and first-needed goods or even housing. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u28	To intervene, on behalf of the Left Block, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortagua.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is natural for the Czech Presidency to focus on Ukraine's recovery. We know the proposal for a new aid of EUR 9 billion and we know the various inflamed speeches to support a people who resist. However, I recall that Ukraine has a public external debt of EUR 54 billion, a large part of it to the IMF ( International Monetary Fund ), the World Bank and the European Commission, a part of it already allocated after the invasion of Crimea, and therefore the European Commission has not yet demanded austerity, privatization, pension cuts and social support. Therefore, what I ask you, Mr Secretary of State, is whether this is what we shall see Portugal defending the cancellation of Ukraine's debt, a measure that could indeed promote its recovery. A second question, Mr Secretary of State, will mark the new European presidency: it is essential that Ukraine's entry into the European Union be flexible and accepted, but there are two evidences that cannot be ignored. The first is that of the absolute hypocrisy of the double standards in the reception of war refugees: Ukrainians are accepted, and well, while Syrians, Iraqis and Afghans continue to die drowned, hungry and cold, in concentration camps promoted by the European Union. The second is the rehabilitation of countries that do not respect the rule of law, which have protofascist, xenophobic and racist policies at the service of the EU refugee containment policy. Poland will, after all, have the approved PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ). The European Parliament did not want, Poland does not respect the democratic state, does not respect the separation of powers, but will have the RPP approved. Hungary has gained a new status of acceptance, along with Poland, because of its role now in the policy of welcoming Ukrainian refugees. Turkey has won white letter to pursue and kill Kurds, with NATO backing, in addition to the payments it receives to contain refugees. Libya is paid to contain refugees in concentration camps. Mr. Secretary of State, I would like to ask you, too, if you saw what happened in Morocco, if you saw what happened in Melilla, if you saw dozens of immigrants, human beings, tens of people being beaten, being left to die in the sun by police forces, without help. I would like to ask you, Mr Secretary of State, if this image tells you anything. The speaker showed a sheet with a picture. I would like to ask you if this image of bodies piled up at the border, within the European Union, after being beaten and raped by police, Moroccan and Spanish forces, tells you something. When the Secretary of State speaks, in the rostrum, of a solidarity Europe that does not hesitate, I would like to ask him what the value of human life is and what one can tell me is that there are human lives that are worth more than others, because it seems to be in the European Union today. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u30	Mr Inês de Sousa Real, of the NAP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present: First of all, I wanted to join me in solidarity with the words of Mrs Mariana Mortágua. In fact, the European Union cannot look at refugees as first and second refugees. All human life is worth and has the same dignity. in what brings us here today, which are the priorities of the Czech Presidency, we would like to ask two very concrete questions, because the fact that we now have a war and indeed have an energy dependence on Russia cannot lead to environmental setbacks. And, Mr Secretary of State, one of the issues that concerns us is how the Czech Presidency's priorities seek to achieve this transition or this autonomy. On the one hand, they want to achieve this through nuclear energy because they say that they can achieve the European Union's climate goals, but they disregard the impact this model has, for example, on the level of waste, and we cannot reach a situation where the present solution is tomorrow's problem. On the other hand, we have seen a vision that continues to be in the natural gas and we have seen a clear criticism of the backlogs that are under way, rather than speeding up the energy transition, since we have a European Union that will invest more than EUR 12 billion in gas pipelines and installations for the import of natural gas, and which also bets on natural gas agreements, but then is impervious to the Netherlands, which have once again produced coal-based electricity. Even yesterday, John Kerry said in the Council of State that the short-term needs should not make us accept setbacks and therefore I ask: what is the commitment that the European Union is available to assume, so that there is a cleaner, safer and effective transition to decarbonisation commitments?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u32	Mr Rui Tavares has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u33	Mr President, dear colleagues, Mr Secretary of State : I have said to us a little while ago that the fifth priority of the Czech Presidency — to ensure the resilience of European democratic institutions — is the least related to the war and basically dedicated to it the end of its speech, not adding much content on which are the Portuguese positions on this issue. I believe that this is quite disappointing, because not the priority of the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights is not disconnected from the war. Of course, because Europe, if it wants to present itself as a champion of democracy against authoritarian dictatorships, then it must take care of democracy at home, it must take care of democracy at the level of the European Union and at the level of the Member States. Then because we are currently experiencing a very great challenge with regard to the rule of law in the European Union. On 27 April, the European Commission finally decided to initiate a procedure with regard to the Hungarian Government, concerning its RPP, for failure to comply with the European Union's values. The Hungarian Government replied yesterday, and I will not ask you whether you have read the answer and what your opinion is about it, but if you are willing to come here to the committee to discuss the reply of the Hungarian Government and, above all, whether, when the European Commission decides what the penalty is for Hungary, and according to what Mr. Prime Minister said — which cannot be priced for compliance with the rule of law — agrees that the suspension should be 100 % of the RPP funds. It is not a fine, it is a suspension, the money will be there when the values of the European Union are met. Still about the PRR, the French Presidency said that all RRP funds would be on a free access base. The Council's legal service now says that there is no legal basis for doing so and Germany is not in favour of making these data available either. Is it possible that there will be countries that will provide such data and other countries that, once again, like Hungary and others, will not tell us where the funds of the European citizens go? Oh, my God! Finally, it is true that we have a current refugee crisis, which adds to a number of mistakes — not refugee crises, but mistakes — in the management of refugees in the European Union. Will the Portuguese Government now go, as this is a priority of the Czech Presidency, to support the establishment of a joint programme for the resettlement of refugees in the European Union? It has been written in the European Parliament since 2011, only to implement. [[CH Member's Protests André Ventura.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u34	To close the debate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council has now spoken.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the various speeches. In fact, as has been pointed out here — I believe that virtually all banks — the priorities of the Czech Presidency are inextricably linked to the situation we live in Ukraine, the war in Ukraine, in its various dimensions. On Ukraine, the subject of candidate status was mentioned here, which was attributed to Ukraine in the past European Council, and they asked me what the Portuguese Government's position on the subject was. Since this is a unanimous decision, the position of the Portuguese Government could not have been clearer: obviously, it was in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u36	That's not what the Prime Minister said!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u37	The Portuguese Government at the European Council supported the granting of the status of candidate for Ukraine as well as Moldova. However, what the government did not do was « put the car in front of the oxen ». I have heard many people speak on this subject before, even before, the European Commission presents its opinion. However, the rules on enlargement are clear, there are procedures which must also be observed, which are strict, which are complex, which are durable — it is true — but which are strict, and which must be based on strict verification of compliance with the Copenhagen criteria. This is from the very first point of view of a European Commission's recommendation. Until this recommendation was known, any pronouncement on this matter was premature. When this recommendation was known, the Prime Minister had to receive — indeed, I myself was there — representatives of all parliamentary groups seated in this House of the Republic, to know the position of this Parliament, and finally announced the position of Portugal, which was again expressed in the European Council. In addition, I myself received a special envoy from President Zelenskyy to start a joint work, which we have been doing, of technical assistance to Ukraine, as regards its accession process, sharing the know-how and knowledge we have on the subject. What we have said is that a process of enlargement must be taken seriously and must be taken seriously, because we know that unfortunately there are many countries whose expectations have been fed, to which a candidate status has been assigned, in some cases, in others not, negotiations have been opened that have been dragged for years and this has fueled a feeling of frustration, a feeling of resentment, which is not good and can even be counterproductive for the European project. Therefore, the enlargement process must be carried out on the basis of its rules, in the procedure which is stabilized, it must comply with the criteria, it must avoid creating feelings of frustration and, above all, it must be accompanied not only by a verification of compliance with the reforms needed in the candidate countries in order to be able to integrate the European Union, but also by the reforms that the European Union itself will have to do in order to prepare itself to absorb these new countries. The European Union, in its current institutional and financial framework, is not prepared for such an extension. So if we want to be serious — and we want to be serious about this — then we really need to start a debate, as soon as possible, on the adjustment that is necessary to be adopted in the European Union in order to be able to receive these new Member States. As far as VAT is concerned, Mr Ventura, I believe that it has caused a confusion between electricity and fuel. We have already lowered the VAT of electricity...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u38	The same thing again? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u39	... either as regards the fixed term, or as regards consumption. Fuel VAT is that it cannot be reduced by means of a European directive, and therefore we have found an alternative way of achieving the same effect by reducing the ISP (charge on oil and energy products).
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u40	It's working out well! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u41	As far as migration is concerned, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, I cannot be more shocked than the honourable Member with these images which she shows, and I believe you will have no doubt about the Portuguese Government's position on migration at European level. It is a very difficult issue at the European level, in which there are Member States, with different sensitivities, with different positions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u42	Xenophobics!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u43	Indeed, there has been an evolution in the reception of Ukrainian refugees, which, unfortunately, has not been accompanied by several Member States with regard to refugees from other countries, but this is clearly not the position of the Portuguese State. The Portuguese State has had a supportive position, welcoming Afghan refugees, Syrian refugees, from all backgrounds. [[P.S.'s applause.]] No, Mrs Inês Sousa Real, there are no first and second refugees! For the Portuguese Government, for the Portuguese State and for this House — I think I can say so — there are no first and second refugees.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u44	And what are you going to say to the Spaniards?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u45	Therefore, at European level, we have supported those Member States...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u46	France?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u47	... that have a position in favour of migration, responsible and supportive reception of refugees, we have always been on the side of the advance in the new European Pact for Migration, which is a very complicated dossier which has been blocked by some Member States, the position we regret and reject. But our position on migration is absolutely indisputable...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u48	Are you going to condemn? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u49	... and it is in the sense that we have a solidarity and open to the reception of any refugee fleeing from a place in conflict or a place in which there is danger, regardless of which place it is. As regards the ecological transition, Mrs Inês Sousa Real, yesterday we had a very significant advance at Council level, with the approval of the Council's general guidance on the Fit for 55 package, a very comprehensive package which provides for a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 in all sectors, to achieve the target of 55 % reduction and to be prepared to achieve the goal of carbon neutrality by 2050.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u50	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u51	So there have been very significant advances in this matter, even yesterday, and it will be precisely one of the tasks of the Czech Presidency now to take this issue to the trilogue discussion with the European Parliament in order to try to close this very relevant dossier to ensure the energy transition and the fulfilment of the objectives of the European Ecological Pact. This is a matter of the rule of law, it is a subject on which, unfortunately, there are also different positions in the European Union and Portugal has, in fact, always been in line with the defence of the values of the rule of law, democracy and respect for fundamental rights, in the various dimensions and in the various fronts in which this matter is spread. We have had horizontal dialogues, state-to-state dialogues in the Council, analysing the situation of each State, on the basis of the report on the rule of law presented by the European Commission - it will also very soon present this year's report with specific recommendations, which we hope will be observed - there is a conditionality procedure which has been initiated with regard to Hungary, which we have followed, as we know, the procedure of Article 7. the, there are different mechanisms. As regards Poland's PRR, it is true that the European Union, however, has approved it, but as it is known, any disbursement provided for in the PRR is subject to the fulfilment of goals and milestones and many of the goals and milestones found in Poland's PRR have to do with the fulfilment of the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u52	We have concluded the first item on our agenda, so we are moving on to the debate on the instruments of economic governance of the European Union, under Article 4(1) ( e ). the Law of Monitoring, Appreciation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic, in the framework of the European Union Construction Process, on the instruments of economic governance of the European Union. To begin the debate, I call Mr Tiago Antunes, Secretary of State for European Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this second debate we look at the instruments of economic governance of the European Union, particularly the European Semester of 2022 and the country-specific recommendations which the European Commission addressed to Portugal. As you know, the main objectives of the European Semester are to ensure healthy public finances, prevent excessive macroeconomic imbalances and promote investment and reforms that encourage job creation, social protection and sustainable economic growth. The most recent times, however, have required a reconsideration of part of this general framework of economic governance to meet the global challenges facing Europe and the world. In 2020 and 2021, due to the pandemic, there were temporary changes in this same framework, especially in the context of the adoption of the unpublished NextGenerationEU programme and the start of the implementation of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism. When we were preparing for recovery, there was a war on the borders of the European Union. From crisis crisis or emergency response in emergency response, we have been called upon to make decisions, with uncertainty as the background. The circumstances — mostly exogenous, it is true — have forced us to do so. We do not yet know in detail how and how long the impact of the war on Ukraine will motivate the need for more adaptations, but there is something we already know: the European Semester will continue to take into account the important implementation of the recovery and resilience plans of the Member States in the coming years and will not ignore the consequences of the illegal and unprovoked invasion of Ukraine by Russia. This is where we should read and understand the debate on the European Semester, from the very point of view of our country. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The publication by the European Commission of the Annual Sustainable Growth Analysis in November 2021 marked the beginning of the European Semester of 2022. This document identifies policy priorities for the following year, provides guiding principles for its implementation in the next cycle of the European Semester and also defines how the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism will be integrated in this exercise. In addition to this important guidance document, we must take into account all the changes that have taken place since then, especially since the early morning of February 24. in this sense, the reports per country, published in May of this year, become increasingly important, given precisely the evolution of events since the beginning of the year and its impacts, economic and not only. Together with the country-by-country reports, the European Commission proposed to the Council the adoption of country-specific recommendations, which already take into account the exceptional circumstances caused by the invasion of Ukraine by Russia. This is an example of the recommendation addressed to all Member States related to energy, providing specific guidelines for each Member State on reducing the dependence on fossil fuels and accelerating the energy transition in accordance with the objectives of the REPowerEU programme. In the case of specific recommendations for Portugal, there are four recommendations on the following areas: budgetary policy; implementation of the Recovery and Resilience Plan and conclusion of negotiations on the programming of the structural funds of the PT2030 ( Portugal 2030 ) ; and, as is known, the adoption of the partnership agreement is very short ; climate transition policy and energy transition policy. I would stress, above all, two of these recommendations, concerning budgetary policy and energy transition policy. As regards the first, the European Commission recommends a prudent budgetary policy, also affirming the need to continue to support families and businesses most vulnerable to rising energy prices, as well as the importance of increasing public investment in climate and digital transitions and energy security, which is precisely in line with what the Government has been doing to ensure a responsible budgetary policy, of certain accounts, without failing to help families and economic sectors most affected by inflation, particularly in fuel prices and food cabaz. On the recommendation on energy transition, the Commission recommends that the general dependence on fossil fuels be reduced, that renewable energy bet bet, particularly in wind and solar electricity and in the production of renewable hydrogen. in this context, it also recommends strengthening the energy efficiency investment incentive framework in buildings as well as increasing energy interconnections. This fourth and final recommendation was widely discussed with the European Commission and the other Member States, and it was possible to persuade them - as regards the strategic importance of Portugal, in particular the port of Sines, as a gateway to liquefied natural gas in Europe, and in the future as the production pole for renewable gases that can supply Europe as a whole, thus ensuring a diversification of routes and suppliers that helps to reduce Europe's dependence on energy raw materials from Russia, thus allowing our country to invest in interconnections not only of electricity but of gas, already prepared for green hydrogen between Portugal, Spain and the rest of the European Union. An important victory of Portuguese diplomacy, for us Portuguese, for us Europeans. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u54	For an intervention, on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mr Carlos Brás has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u55	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members : Portugal today has a very different position in the European Union than it was a few years ago and above all in the PSD governments with the CDS-PP. We are today a respected, heard and frequently praised Member State. We are actively involved in the performance and implementation of policies to deepen European integration, innovative, reformist, sustainable and structural policies. A good example of this is even the joint responses, either in the context of the COVID-19 crisis, either in response to the crisis caused by Russia's invasion of Ukraine, which are achieved in joint purchases, for example, responses also achieved in the joint sovereign debt issue or, moreover, joint environmental and energy responses. We have already passed, fortunately and thanks to the socialist governments, the good student phase, when the recommendations were recessive, austerity and impoverishment of so bad memory. No, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are no longer the country of bringing rails and lowering the face, as the PSD was getting used to us. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u56	With the PS governments, the country recovered dignity on the European stage, became an example in many areas and we started to get used to being praised by the highest figures in the European panorama, as was the case with Chancellor Merkel, the President of the European Commission or the President of the European Central Bank. The country has been pursuing policies recognized throughout Europe, has an appreciated government and has a prestigious and heard Prime Minister throughout Europe. Another evidence of this is that the REPs ( country-specific recommendations) included in the European Semester are actively involved and discussed by Portugal, such as strengthening the energy efficiency investment incentive framework as well as increasing energy interconnections. The strategic options mirrored in the State budget are in line with the best practices and recommendations, as is also the case with the objective of reducing the sovereign debt of the Republic. There is indeed a paradigm shift in Portugal's relationship with the European Union and a paradigm shift in the way the European Union looks at Portugal. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u57	Finally, Mr President, allow me to congratulate and congratulate Croatia, on behalf of the PS bench, on the successful completion of the steps necessary for accession to the euro, strengthening its process of integration into the European Union. We believe that the adoption of the euro by another Member State strengthens confidence in the European project and increases the financial credibility of the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u58	Continuing the use of the time allocated to the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Miguel Costa Matos now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u59	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: Today this debate may go unnoticed, but it is a fundamental debate for our society. Between January and June, the difference between the interest rate of the sovereign debt of Germany and Portugal, at 10 years, doubled from half a percentage point to one percentage point. And other countries have seen this spread grow even more, increasing its cost of financing. This fragmentation of financial markets reminds us of other times, of bad memories. If at the time Mr. Draghi had long said that he would do what was necessary to save the euro today at few kilometres from here in Sintra, the ECB ( European Central Bank ) discusses the development of a new tool against fragmentation. Well, Mrs. Lagarde, all right! And it remains to be known if you will be able to implement this tool in time. But knife and cheese are not only in the hands of the ECB. It will also remain to know whether Europe will be up to its time or whether it will repeat the mistakes of the past, because inflation at the moment persists, the confidence of consumers and investors cools, the spectrum of a recession is approaching - and, as if not enough, the context in which we live tells us - that we have to accelerate investments in climate transition, digital, social rights and national defence. These are challenges that require a prudent budgetary policy, but as the government has done, but is active, which alleviates the pain of inflation, feeds sustained economic recovery and prepares us for the future. Mr President, we cannot add austerity to these crises. We cannot again inflict the error of austerity on our entrepreneurs, our workers, reformers and young people. We cannot again make the mistake of austerity which has not achieved a single budget goal and which has always been the greatest enemy of the right accounts. It is therefore very important that the budgetary rules have been suspended for another year and that the Sustainable Development Goals and the European Pillar of Social Rights have been incorporated into the European Semester, values which are identical to the European project, which cannot be sidelined in the face of any obsession with the deficit. These developments, in flexibility and in the framework of European economic governance, are essential weapons to meet the challenges of the present and the doubts of the market. The budgetary rules cannot be a vest of forces, they must be a bulletproof vest, and this, of course, requires responsible use by all countries, but cannot be a single size vest. If golden rules with the exception of green, social or digital investment are surely welcome, the common market requires that we do not go at various speeds, depending on the budgetary space each country has in order to take advantage of this golden rule. First, we must support ourselves in the lessons of the pandemic, the SURE(Support you the mitigate Employment Risks in an Emergency) of the NextGenerationEU, to deepen the risk sharing with permanent financing instruments, which, in common challenges and objectives, complement the budgetary policies of the states. This debate is there and as previous governments wanted to go beyond the troika, they wanted to do more austerity than was requested, the Government of Antonio Costa is leading it at European level, with the credibility of those who have the house arranged, of those who have certain accounts here in Portugal,... [[IL rice.]] ...and with the consciousness of which is the right way. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u60	Instead of austerity, solidarity; instead of competition, cooperation; instead of fragmentation, union. If we fail, it will be a bill that the most vulnerable, the younger and the planet will simply not be able to pay. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u61	To speak on behalf of the PSD, Mr. Paulo Moniz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u62	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members : Contrary to this idyllic vision, and almost the time of the fenices, comparatively, that the Socialist Party brought us, I would like to focus my intervention on concrete things, which concern the day-to-day Portuguese and our collective future. It began with an essential aspect, which was the failure of 15 % of the profits of large companies in the European Union, which was indeed an objective of the French Presidency and which came out fat, cannot be achieved. And it is clear that in a country where there is an IRC (tax on the income of the public) of 30 % the question is: now that we do not have this instrument that would eventually enable companies to relieve the tax burden, what is the government's strategy to preserve or improve our fiscal competitiveness, attract investment and put the real economy to work and not the idyllic economy that the Socialist Party has recently propagated? So the question is: what has been done with the European Union, particularly in tax matters, to replace the failure of this 15 % tax on profit, allowing all companies to lower that tax burden and why not include SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises) who are drowned in taxes of their activity and who therefore do not invest and are not consolidated? There is a second important aspect, which is the execution of the PRR. The PRR, at the date of last week, in its official monitoring, has a payment of less than 4 % — less than 4 %! — the total of more than 16 billion grants and loans. Mr President-in-Office of the General Deposit Box said on Monday that this is all nice—to monitor, make these reports and show these interventions—but that businesses do not have enough money. It's an alert from who's in the bank. And what he says is that the real economy, out there, is not left by these proclamations, by these maps, by these intentions, and, in fact, the money of the PRR does not help the economy, does not help the country overcome a crisis, does not create wealth. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u63	I can't stop talking about inflation. We said, at this year's budget discussion, that inflation was not conjunctural, but had come to stay. And even since now, until the end of the year, inflation has slowed down, we have already had an increase in consumer price index of more than 7 %. That means that what you've recorded in the Budget is unrealistic. They are still convinced today that we will have an increase of only 3, 7%. And the question is: what is it that in the European Union, in the face of this disaster which is already evident and felt by all Portuguese in the supermarket, has done in the context of aid to the country, in addition to the intervention of the European Central Bank, which, in fact, on Monday, possibly alerted to an economic recession at the end of the year, contrary to what you pretend not to recognize? There's another look that seems relevant to me. This debate on the orientation of policy instruments with the European Union must respond to the challenges of the European Union itself. At the ECOFIN meeting on 17 June, States were asked what target they would like to give — or how they feel they can — to new taxes, in particular on pollutant gas emissions. And this question was asked because, if you have to anticipate by 2030 at least one cut of 55 %, there is an additional tax. In addition to wanting to know what the Portuguese Government's proposals are in response to this request from the ECOFIN, of course, we want to warn a whole range of small and medium-sized enterprises working in the field of fossil fuels, including supply posts, throughout the entire country, which for tens of years have responded to the economy, have supported the Portuguese and can see their activity severely damaged in the course of this ecological transformation and this ecological pact. And what it is legitimate to ask is: what are you thinking of by the Portuguese Government to support these companies that will necessarily see their activity diminish? Yes, because the truth is that change and the ecological pact also result in a decrease in revenue in these companies. What is expected is that our Government together, and responding to the challenge that the Ecofin (Economic and Financial Affairs Council) launched on 17 June, say what the support package is and what it intends to do to mitigate these difficulties in a sector that is sometimes neglected, but which is, and has been, important over many years. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u64	To speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Bruno Nunes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u65	Mr. President, in your own person, I welcome all those present. Mr. Secretary of State, as unfortunately Mr. Prime Minister is not here, we have to talk to you. You always have a speech that is: « we talked about this yesterday», « I thought about this yesterday». It seems like those times when we forgot to call friends and then say: « I was thinking about you right now». It seems that everything is always very timely. They are always those issues of the recommendations, « we talked about it yesterday », « we were still dealing with the subject last week ». What I thought was interesting in your initial speech was that all the recommendations of the Council are very important things and take them into account; when they are recommendations by the party Arrival, particularly with regard to VAT, is to put the car in front of the woods. We could stay here all afternoon talking about oxen and cars, but then we'll put the oxen behind the car so we can walk this forward. [[PS Members' laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u66	On the contrary!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u67	Mr Secretary of State, of course we can continue to talk about war and justify all the involvement in the European Union with war. We do not know whether Ukraine will survive and, if it does survive, it will not be certain with the M-113 that we are sending there, because it seems that there is no money to send them, but what we really like to know is what the government — because I said recently that it had a great diplomatic victory in Portugal — defends in relation to the economic strategy to defend issues such as the continental platform, which borders the United States, and realize exactly what we can benefit from all this. We are also talking at a stage when we are coming to a Presidency of the Czech Republic and I think it is important to realize, because of the energy transition — in relation to the defence of the gas embargo that the Czech Republic is defending — what our position is, that we need to speak once and for all, and not only yesterday, about the issue of Sines. One last question: we wanted to see, with regard to nuclear energy, what position the Portuguese Government has, because the Czech Republic defends the continuation of the nuclear programme and Germany has already defended its extinction. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u68	In order to intervene, even within the time of the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Filipe Melo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : We have heard from the socialist board a faithful portrait of what has always happened in socialist governments with the European Union. We are the most applied, most dedicated student, but we forget that, to be so and to be so good in photography, it is the Portuguese who pay the bill. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u70	Let's see why. Mr Secretary of State, he sets this number: of the 27 countries that constitute the Union, Portugal has the second most expensive natural gas of all — the second! In addition, we had a 3% increase in natural gas compared to the same period. With regard to electricity, in the same 27 countries, we are the sixth country with the most expensive electricity, and also with a 3% increase. I remind you that, in the electricity bill, half is consumption and the other half is tax. We are talking about VAT, excise duty and political-energy caricature rates. In cereals, we have recorded an increase of almost 15 % by February of this year. It is 14, 8 %, to be more precise, 14, 8 %, in February, when the war had not started. Of course, now, with the war in Ukraine, prices will shoot even more. We're saying that the flour pound went from 25 to 49 cents. We're questioning the bread that's put on the Portuguese table.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u71	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u72	The Secretary of State referred to Mr Ventura a few moments ago, saying that, with regard to fuels, the claim that we have the highest taxes was false. So I must remind you, Mr Secretary of State, that Portugal pays 54 % of taxes — 54 %! — on petrol. In Spain, 47 % is paid. But you want to go further? I give you the example of LPG (Liquefied Petroleum Gas). In Portugal, taxes are 38 % and in Spain — it is frightening! — 21%. These are the right accounts that the government has for itself, but that are increasingly wrong accounts for the Portuguese purses. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u73	To speak on behalf of the IL, Mr Bernardo Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u74	Mr President, you will excuse me but I must begin by saying that in your previous speech the Secretary of State, having already learned from Mr Prime Minister, has not answered any questions I have asked, neither in relation to the proposal from the European Commission, nor in relation to the directive, nor in relation to the position of European economic autonomy vis-à-vis China. I asked three questions, he didn't answer any. If you want, you have a new chance now. With regard to recommendations within the framework of the European Semester, both the Commission and the Council opinion, I give some information that I think is important to mention. According to the Commission, we have a bureaucratic and complex tax system, with more than 500 tax benefits in more than 60 legal diplomas, which obviously leaves many companies apart. Aggravating this, as has already been mentioned, we have an IRC which, with municipal and state overtaxes, is one of the highest in Europe ; the retentions in the source of IRS (tax on income of natural persons) are too high ; the recurrent costs of tax collection are high, 20 % above the EU average ; computer investment in tax administration is low, about half of the European average ; and ends by saying something that had already been referred to by Mr. Prime Minister and that he has not answered, that we have a social protection system too bureaucratic, which makes it inefficient, and, compared to the European average, takes very few people away from poverty from what he should have done with the amount of tax resources he has. So what the Commission says is that we must urgently simplify these two systems, starting with the prosecutor, and I wonder what the government will start doing in this area. But the most important criticism, very related to these two — and which I do here again, after I asked last week — is the following: for the state machine, one of the conditions of the PRR is a legislative package for the reorganization of the public administration. To what extent is this work? Today we have 740 000 public servants — record number of the decade and the same as Eng. José Socrates — we already have public expenditure in this sector of 12 % of GDP ( gross domestic product ) above the European Union average. We have about 180 000 people working in bureaucracy and in central administration. It's obviously necessary to scan. We have 5000 computers, the same number of 2015, for 740 000 public servants, which gives 1 to 150, to which the Commission says very well that this number is very low, especially in view of the European average. So the very simple question is: when does this legislative package of public administration reform begin to appear?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u75	Your reform is privatising!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u76	Secondly, I also mention, with regard to the circular economy, that Portugal boasts a lot of its climate agenda. What does the Commission say? We have serious problems, all indicators far below the European average in terms of waste management. Our global recycling rate is almost half the European Union. So we can put all the green posters we want from the Socialist Party on the street, but as long as there are no measures to reverse this negative trend of the circular economy in Portugal, nothing will change. Again, what will be the Government's strategy to respond to this recommendation? Finally, as I already expected Mr. Secretary of State would not answer, I would like to ask again : the RED II Directive ( Renewable Energy Directive ) has not yet been transposed and is already discussed at RED III. The decree has expired, so we've been with nothing for half a year. It is not even known what the level of incorporation of biofuels is, because the directive has not been transposed. So what's needed for such a thing to happen? [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u77	To speak on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The so-called European governance, in its current configuration, corresponds to a dense and complex web of draconian rules, castrifying the action of States, their sovereignty and democracy itself. Rules which are not neutral, from a political and ideological point of view, and which aim to impose neoliberal policies and guidelines associated with the single currency, a budgetary tightening, the public investment minority, the underfinancing of State social functions, wage restraint, i.e. reducing the weight of wages in national income. Created in a full crisis of the euro, by imposing the main powers, as is the case with Germany — in fact, in the head — like the budgetary treaty, which is contemporary, European governance aims to ensure that, even if governments change, they never change policies. That is why the web of European governance has been woven. With prior visas and censorship to national budgets, with national stability programmes and reform programmes designed and monitored by the European Commission, with automatic correction mechanisms, with sanctions and threats of sanctions not only corrective but also preventive, it is a constant interference in fundamental areas of national life. from a structural point of view, there is a continuity of policies that leads to continuity and aggravation of problems: the shortage of public investment and, by drag, of investment in general, the insufficiency of growth, the weakening of the national production apparatus, taking advantage of the potential and resources of our country, the external dependence, the de-investment and degradation of public services, the unequal and unfair distribution of national income. from a structural point of view, the PS never wanted to find solutions to these problems, subjecting itself to the dictates of the economic governance of the euro area and the European Union's taxes associated with it. The discussion on the future Stability Pact — and, indeed, it would be important to realize what position the Government has taken in it — cannot be isolated from the evolution of the most general governance framework in the euro area. If not, see: activated that is the exception clause of the CFP (the Stability and Growth Pact), what is the practical effect on the budgetary policies of the euro area countries? We would simply look at the State budget for 2022 — which, in fact, leaves no answer to the country's structural and burning problems — to realize that the conditions have never disappeared. We will also have to look at the recent country recommendations adopted at the last European Council to see that budgetary pressures are increasing by 2022 and 2023, with a view to reducing real wages and de-investment in public services. These guidelines to which the PS Government has been submitting, to be implemented, will determine a more marked degradation of public services, with particularly negative consequences in the National Health Service and in the public school, and will aggravate the loss of purchasing power of a significant number of workers. They will determine restrictions on national investment while diverting European funds to priorities defined by the European Union itself. All this in a context marked by a pattern of instability in interest rates, with new speculative attacks on markets and rating agencies — and some are already visible — to the countries on the outskirts of the euro.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u79	The honourable Member has to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u80	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. At times, the current Prime Minister said that the euro zone is a bonus for Germany, a bonus paid with the outskirts of the euro zone. Economic governance also exists to ensure the continuity of this bonus. That is why we should ask, Mr Secretary of State, why nothing has changed since this statement was made, until we continue to bear this bonus and what the costs of this option also for the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u81	To speak on behalf of BE, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u82	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State : There is a slight contradiction because, by continuing the previous debate, Mr. Secretary of State went to that forum to say that «the European Union is not hesitant, the European Union is in line with its responsibilities, the European Union is supportive and a bastion in the defence of human rights». But then we asked about the reception of war refugees and said: "Oh, it's complicated, different positions, it's not possible." Then it is asked about the rule of law within the European Union, and the answer is: « It is complicated, there are different positions, Realpolitik is what it is ». Therefore, of two, one : either the European Union is hesitant and is not a stand for human rights, dealing differently with different refugees, because that is what happens, or then nothing we are seeing has a reason to exist and we are all seeing badly what the Realpolitik of the European Union is. What the Portuguese Government cannot say is one thing and defends its opposite, because what I ask you is not only about the position of the Portuguese Government, it is about the position of the European Union, and it is either something or it is not. And it is good for the Portuguese Government to have a realistic position on the space in which it is integrated, which is certainly not an area that treats all refugees in the same way, that respects all states of law in the same way or that respects all human rights in the same way. It would be useful, already in part of the responsibility of the Portuguese State, that we could hear from the Government a condemnation of the Spanish State, because these deaths on the European Union border, these images of immigrants killed or left to die, beaten by police forces, happened in a neighbouring country of Portugal, in the Spanish State. It was also important to know the views of the Portuguese State on Turkey, that is to say Turkey has the right to receive hundreds of millions of euros from the European Union to maintain refugee camps, if it is legitimate for Turkey to offer its support to NATO in exchange for the persecution and death of Kurds. Do you think the Kurds are terrorists and that is compatible with a self-determination and human rights policy? It is that self-determination and human rights are independent values and should apply to all peoples and in all circumstances. However, it would be good to have a position of the Portuguese State that was at least consistent with this sea of hypocrisy in which European policy became with regard to human rights, refugees, self-determination and so on. Mr Secretary of State, on economic issues, economic recession can or may not happen, everything depends on what the European Union resolves to do. There is an elephant in the middle of the room that are the most indebted countries and the increase in public debts, which is directly related to the previous recession and to the previous austerity, which caught up the economies, increasing the public debts, which were then pressured by the COVID and a war. We need to know what mechanisms is that the European Central Bank will create to protect countries from rising interest rates, because that is what determines whether there will be a sovereign debt crisis or not. It is not Portugal's budgetary policy that will prevent a speculative attack, which will prevent a speculative attack on Portuguese sovereign debt, or any other peripheral, is the action of the European Central Bank. Mrs Lagarde has been congratulated here by Mr. Miguel Costa Matos for his great response, saying that there will be mechanisms to defend sovereign debts. I hope there is. It happens that I also heard Mr. Lagarde, together with Mr. Mário Centeno, Governor of Banco de Portugal, saying that wages must be restricted, that wages cannot increase, that wages cannot grow with inflation, that is, a real wage cut. Thus, a contradiction arises here between the words of Mr. Miguel Costa Matos, who says he does not want a return to the past, never a return to the past, at the same time that Mr. Lagarde and Governor Centeno ask for a wage restriction. It's just that this sounds a little bit like the past, i.e. pay cuts sound a little bit past.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u83	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u84	Finally, Mr President, just asking what we can expect from the budgetary rules which have so much restricted Portugal's ability to respond to the crisis and the recession that comes there. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u85	Mr Inês de Sousa Real has now the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present, Mr Secretary of State : We have heard - and we have heard - the issue of the climate crisis and the importance of the European Union's commitments and we have also heard from the PS Parliamentary Group that there is a debt that cannot be passed on to future generations. It is true that, in general, we agree with these statements, but then the way in which they are implemented leads us to the very concrete question that I would like to leave it. One of the funding programmes that the European Union is precisely green bonds and we are talking about a programme that has been set up to finance the NextGenerationEU. This programme can make the European Union one of the world's largest green bond issuers. However, at the moment, a report is under discussion in the German Parliament that tells us that these green bonds use a classification system that has less transparent and less ambitious criteria for environmental protection objectives, in particular by creating a disparity between those which are the objectives of private entities and public entities, in particular those products which can be made available on the market. in this report it is even going to say that we are demanding more from the private than, in this case, the low standards that the European Commission can determine and that this can constitute a greenwashing operation and, in some ways, also irreversibly jeopardise investors' confidence in these green solutions. So what I ask you is whether the government is available to actually put this issue within the framework of the European Parliament and the European Council, whether this operation is really going to defend here an increase in the transparency requirements of the classification system in the European Union. It is that the green bonds are important—and the NAP agrees with the existence of them—but we must ensure that they have a more effective transparency criterion, under the penalty of discrediting this same programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u87	To speak, Mr Rui Tavares, of the Free, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u88	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the PRR was considered an extraordinary measure but to be used only once, according to some Member States, in the face of an unprecedented crisis that needed an immediate response. Only that the pandemic crisis is no less than the war crisis on the whole European continent, which is no less than the return of inflation, which is no less than a recession by turning the corner to 2023, which is increasingly likely, that in turn is no less than a Marshall Plan for Ukraine, or less than an enlargement of the European Union in the next decade. What this means is that we need a permanent PRR and that is an increasing evidence in the European debate. The question is whether the Portuguese Government is taking the lead on this agenda, with whom it has already spoken, what are the strategies, what is the plan for discussions around a European permanent federal debt instrument, which is basically what we have - let us stop talking, there are those who do not like federalism for some things but like the PRR - and a redistributive instrument of that debt at the level of the permanent European Union whether or not they are desirable by the Portuguese Government. In the G7, price control was discussed, and well, because the inflation that originates in the war is different from inflation outside periods of war, and historically inflation with price control has been combated. What does the Portuguese Government think? Will it join the United States government, which proposes price control for Russian fuel, and the French government, which proposes price control for fuels, point? Oh, my God! Finally, a question on the representation of Portuguese in European institutions. Today we have had good news: the Portuguese Vasco Cordeiro, of the Azores, has just been appointed Chairman of the Committee of the Regions. The Free Office proposed the creation of a European institute as a laboratory associated with the State, this resolution was adopted here in the Assembly of the Republic, so I wonder what Mr. Secretary of State intends to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u89	To close the debate, and not ignoring the issues raised by the Liberal Initiative, among other parliamentary groups, I give the floor to Mr. Secretary of State for European Affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u90	Mr President, I shall certainly not ignore it. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Brás, Portugal's position today at European level and even at international level is very different from that in the past, given the responsible management we have had of public finances, without failing to have a policy of recovery of income and visible and tangible effects at the level of convergence with the European Union, and indeed in recent years, taking the years of the pandemic, Portugal has converged with the European Union, maintaining sound public finances. This allowed Portugal to have a credible position of respect, which, in fact, in the recent instability at the level of interest rates of sovereign debts, mentioned here by several Members. Members, it was already possible to verify how Portugal was not in the first line of this effect; Portugal was largely out of this effect or only suffered marginally. And why? Just because it has, at the moment, solid public finances, it has an internationally respected position before its partners, the result of the curriculum that it has to show and the credibility it has gained in this matter, with a certain accounting policy that we will maintain and that it is essential that we be able to avoid the terms of subjecting ourselves again, in the future, to the desmandants and to the sacrists of austerity which, unfortunately, we have suffered in Portugal for several years. This is also connected with the issue of economic governance reform, which has been mentioned by several Members. Members, in particular by the Left Block. That is why we are waiting for the proposals that the European Commission will put forward after the summer. It is very important that, by 2023, the decision has already been taken to maintain the effects of the Stability and Growth Pact, i.e. the activation of the safeguard clause, but these rules and the national position on this matter need to be reviewed. It is that, in this review, we must learn from the lessons of past crises,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u91	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u92	... with good lessons and bad lessons, with what went wrong and which reduced in the austerity policies we suffered, with pernicious and counterproductive effects, and with good lessons, as was the answer the European Union was able to give to the pandemic, with the creation of a new instrument, the NextGenerationEU, and the SURE programme, and these are the instruments we want to see on the table. Therefore, what the Prime Minister has said is that we need to learn from the good lessons and re-equalize the use of some instruments that have been exceptional for the response to the pandemic, but that must be equalized in the context of the governance of the euro area and the economic governance of the European Union as a whole. We also congratulate Croatia on the decision taken at the European Council, which will be reaffirmed in the next Ecofin and Eurogroup, to admit Croatia within the euro area from 1 January. Mr. Paulo Moniz, we regret that it was not possible to pass during the French Presidency the diploma on minimum corporate taxation, first by a Polish blockade, now by a Hungarian blockade. It is surely a dossier that will pass to the Czech Presidency and we hope that it will find a way to overcome this blockade and allow it to pass this dossier. He also asked what has been done about inflation. You know - you know - because this matter has often been discussed here, in the debate of the Government's programme, in the debate of the State budget, in the recent debate with the Prime Minister, in numerous debates with the Minister of Finance, in numerous forums. Therefore, you know the measures we have taken to reduce the price of fuels, in support of gas-dependent and gas-dependent electro-enterprises and in the transport of goods, you know the very significant support that has been given to the agriculture sector, the support for food cabassion for families with less resources, and finally, you know well, I repeat, the measures we have come to adopt, we have not hesitated in this matter. As for the taxation resulting from the ecological transition, Mr President, I certainly believe that you are distracted from this part because we already have carbon rates for road transport. In fact, in the package which was approved yesterday in the Environment Council, what was planned was precisely a safeguard for those countries which already have carbon rates and which will therefore maintain their carbon rates and will not suffer the effects of these new diplomas which have been approved, precisely because they already have mechanisms in place, as is the case with Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u93	That wasn't the question!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u94	Mr Bruno Nunes, from arriving, you say that I answer whenever everything is being dealt with. Well, surely because you are asking very timely questions. Therefore, I see this as a compliment to the present question being asked by the Arrival. As for our position on nuclear power, we are against, Mr President, and that has been quite clear. Mr Bernardo Blanco, with regard to the renewable energy directive, the indication I have is that it is transposed; there will eventually be questions of detail, of how we transposed some rules, but the directive is transposed. When it comes to strategic autonomy vis-à-vis China, this issue is of the utmost water, today, at the European level. In fact, it is very clear in the conclusions of the European Versailles Summit that Europe has to make and that it results, in particular, from what we have detected during the pandemic, that is, our dependence, our fragility due to the dependence of global supply chains that we do not control. Therefore, the need to re-industrialize ourselves, to have greater industrial, energy and defence autonomy, an open and unclosed autonomy to the world, is an absolute priority on the European agenda today. As for the country-specific suggestions and recommendations on the tax system and social security system, they exist, and it is precisely to meet these challenges that the PRR foresees, on the one hand, very significant investments in the digitization of tax administration and social security and, on the other hand, simplification reforms in these areas. Therefore, if you consult the PRR there you will find many of the answers to the challenges and recommendations that the Commission now makes in the country-specific recommendations for Portugal. With regard to the organisation and digitisation of the Public Administration, this reform is also under way and, as you have acknowledged, is foreseen in the PRR. Mrs Mariana Mortágua, I do not know whether she has noticed it, but the European Union is composed of 27 Member States. Not all think the same way and not all have the same attitudes! [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] What I said was that in response to the war, the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the European Union has managed to have a united response and has not wavered in its response to Russia. So I ask you not to distort my words, not to generalize what I said. I was referring to the European Union's response to the invasion of Russia, which has been united, has been firm and the European Union has not wavered in this matter. Now, on several other areas, unfortunately, the European Union does not have a united response, as it is obvious. As far as migration is concerned, we regret that it has not been possible to go any further in a humanist and supportive response to the subject of migration, as Portugal has and is very well mirrored in the recent approval of the package on worker mobility, in the reception we have to economic migration and in the reception we have of refugees from different backgrounds and origins, regardless of their skin color and their creed. I believe that is not under discussion and that no one has any doubt about the government's position on this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u95	Mr. Secretary of State, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u96	I'm done now, Mr. President. In order not to leave anyone without an answer, I just wanted to say, in terms of green bonds, that I think it is a very interesting instrument. I do not know the report which Mrs Inês de Sousa Real referred to, but, of course, it cannot be a form of greenwashing. The criteria adopted must be solid and cannot allow less sustainable investments. I would also like to congratulate Dr. Vasco Cordeiro on his election this afternoon as Chairman of the Committee of the Regions, an election that greatly prestigious Portugal. It is a high time for Portugal to preside over this institution. We also follow, as you know, the record of the promotion of Portuguese officials in European institutions, as we follow a set of structured measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u97	Mr. Secretary of State, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u98	I will finish, Mr. President. ... that may go through suggestions such as those made by the honourable Member in order to strengthen our presence in the European institutions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u99	We thus conclude point 2 of our agenda. We move on to point 3, with the general assessment of Bill Nos 108 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Strengthens the safeguard of public interest, autonomy and independence of regulation and promotion of access to professional activities by amending Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January and Law No 53 / 2015 of 11 June, 9 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Establishs the mandatory remuneration of professional internships for access to the exercise of the profession, making the first amendment to Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January and the statutes of various professional public associations, 177 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — eliminate unjustified restrictions on access to regulated professions and set limits on the duration and organization of internships and 178 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Regulatory reform of professional public associations, combating corporateism and democratizing access to professions ( first amendment to Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January ). To present the Socialist Party bill, Mrs Joana Sá Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Freedom of choice and access to profession is a constitutionally consecrated fundamental right and the State has an obligation to guarantee, eliminating all unjust limitations that impede its exercise. Therefore, the PS presents again in this Parliament a bill that aims to strengthen the public interest, autonomy and independence of regulation and the promotion of access to professional activities. But this project is more than that, it is a project to think about the citizens who seek the services provided by these professionals, whose interest we should focus, safeguard and deepen. The self-organization model has lost the opportunity to transform and modernize and, above all, to boost the capacity of each of the sectors of activity, ignoring the warnings that several international institutions have been making, in the last decade. We now have the opportunity to take that step forward. Our bill responds to three absolutely essential points for deepening the public interest to which orders are bound to proceed. The first is the clarification of the tasks of the professional orders in two axes. The first has to do with strengthening the supervisory powers over the performance of its members, with a view to the exercise of one of its main functions, which is the disciplinary function. The second axis concerns the separation of the regulatory function of the representation function. The defence of interests of a professional class is absolutely essential and vital in any country, but this is a function of trade union associations. Professional orders do not exist to represent professional interests. Yes, there is to defend the fundamental rights of citizens and to safeguard the public interest. The second point is the guarantee of independence in order regulation function. Here we propose strengthening the regulatory powers of the supervisory body, which already exists, and ensuring greater independence and exemption, with a majority of members outside the professions concerned, but all of them elected by professionals who integrate the order. I repeat, all of them elected by professionals who integrate the order. The objective is not therefore, as some have tried, control orders or restrict their powers, but the orders have conditions to exercise with exemption and independence their power and duty to regulate and discipline. We also define as mandatory the provider of the services, with strengthened powers, thus ensuring the protection of the interests of citizens seeking such services and having the right to be protected and defended. The last point has to do with democratizing access to self-regulated professions, and this is one of the fundamental points of our diploma. Does it make any sense that orders promote internships and evaluations that repeat educational content already taught in higher education? No, no, no. Does it make any sense that the orders demand absolutely unjustified fees, in some of them the equivalent of the cost of obtaining the degree of master, thus excluding at the start those who have less? No, no, no. Does it make any sense that orders promote internships when they are already part of the necessary academic training? No, no, no. Does it make any sense that orders last for almost two years after academic training? No, no, no. Does it make any sense for young people to submit to unpaid, effective work internships so as to be able to enter a profession? No, no, no. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is unacceptable that a young professional, after all the investment in his university training, still has to pay more than €1700 for almost two years to repeat learning from the university curriculum, at the same time that he has to work as a trainee, in some cases without receiving any kind of remuneration. It is to these young people that our diploma gives an answer. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But more. It is not understood how some orders can, on the one hand, protest the lack of professionals in their sector and at the same time create criteria to limit the exercise of the profession or be the first to challenge the opening of new vacancies for academic training. No one, not even this Parliament, understands. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Removing these blockades and promoting the entry of young people into the labour market, combating the capture of certain professions by which they already exercise them, promoting intolerable generational divisions, is a patriotic imperative that this House can now, with courage, exercise. And we hope to find in this Parliament, as we have found in various professional orders, partners to take the path of a modern country, in line with the reality of the rest of Europe. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u101	To submit Bill No. 9 / XV / 1. a, of the NAP, has the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With the interruption of the past legislation, we also interrupt an important legislative process which was precisely aimed at resolving what we are discussing today. And today's debate is a debate of choices between a path of respect for young people or of maintaining a status quo that only serves to feed precariousness and perpetuate a certain corporateism. in this debate, the NAP is, as will always be, alongside young people and the fight against precariousness, proposing, without flowering or hazelnuts, the end of unpaid professional internships for access to the profession. We understand that this is the only way to dignify and guarantee the empowerment of young people. We do not accept that a student of law, psychology, accounting or nursing, after 3, 4 or 5 years of study, has to take an unpaid professional course to exercise the profession for which he studied. We cannot be a country in which « to be a slave it is necessary to study». More, the most qualified generation always deserves much more than an unremunerated internship. For us, a person who provides his services must be entitled to a salary, meal allowance and insurance for civil liability and accidents. This is the minimum level of labour dignity, and that is why we propose this legislative amendment here. But we also want to raise social sensitivity to professional orders through recognition of the right of exemption or reduction of registration fees to all those who have benefited from scholarships during their graduation. It does not make any sense, as has already been mentioned, to cover high rates of registration to people who often do not have any income or whose social condition prevents them from accessing such basic and fundamental — in fact, constitutionally consecrated — right to profession. We therefore want to prevent some of the young people from having to give up their dreams because of lack of resources or from preventing cases where they are forced to have a second job to finance the costs of the registration rate in professional orders. Dignity for young people is what we want and stand for here today, and we hope that the other political forces on our side in this fight last year will maintain their position and approve these NAP proposals, knowing that, in particular, we have and will have work to do to bring about the reconciliation of the various proposals presented today.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u103	To submit Bill No. 177 / XV / 1. a, from the CH, I give the floor to Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposal that the House is bringing to this House is by far the most balanced and sensible one in the face of the proposals presented here. We basically have two models under consideration. The Liberals want, in essence, to extinguish orders in the Portuguese legal landscape and make the Portuguese market a kind of "liberal savagery" where everyone does whatever he wants, in whatever way and without any control. The Socialist Party, in turn, has the strategy of always. To pretend that it complies with everything, with complex legal standards, with a single objective: to control and submit the orders they have made to it in recent years. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Therefore, any beautiful speech that is made here today, as we have seen here, sweet and delicate, has no other objective but this: to dominate and submit the orders they have made to the PS over the past few years. The PS had already said that "who fucks with the PS, leads". Now, the punishment for the Order of Lawyers, for the Order of Engineers, for the Order of Economists and for all those who have faced the Socialist Party in recent years has arrived. It is the absolute majority to become absolute prepotence, that is what we have in this diploma of the Socialist Party. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The Liberal Initiative brings us a proposal for the extinction of professional orders. It invited the Liberal Initiative to see the fundamental work that orders such as veterinary doctors, economists or certified accountants have done in this country over the last few years. I would invite you to see the work on the ground, the fundamental work of defending public health, in the case of veterinarians, and of defending the economy, in the case of economists. But it is funny that the Liberal Initiative also wants to avoid and reject the rule that would allow only one order for each profession. They are so liberal that they even want several orders at the same time, as if the market could be regulated north and south at the same time! No, sir. Members of the Liberal Initiative, there are times when we all have to walk to the same side, whatever the way. It is the way we must continue. [[Congrats from the CH.]] But the most worrying rule is that of the Socialist Party, because, as I said, in the midst of the wordsdelicadoces brings us what in the media always brings: the attempt to appoint outsiders to professions for disciplinary and supervisory organs. If this happens to most of the opposition, it doesn't happen to arrive. It is necessary for the country to know this: the PS will want non-medicines to be able to exercise discipline on doctors, that non-advocates can exercise discipline on lawyers, that non-engineers can exercise discipline on engineers. We are all seeing who these merit personalities of the Socialist Party will be! [[CH's laughs.]] I imagine José Socrates, in the Order of Engineers, appointed by the Socialist Party. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Or, then, the ghost of José Socrates, I already see Manuel Pinho, with great dignity, in front of the Order of the Economists, appointed by the Socialist Party. My dears, this isn't a joke. The institution of professional orders has a historical, legal and constitutional reason, which is to preserve the autonomy and independence of professions. The PS wants to reverse it, or to blame them, or dominate them, because it is the only institution in Portugal that hasn't really controlled it yet. But we will not let ourselves be intimidated. The proposal of the Arrival is sensible and goes in the right way, to reduce the maximum time of internships to 12 months and to avoid this army of precariouss that extend throughout the country, to the hands of socialist law, with the support of other forces in this House, which leads thousands and thousands of young people, after five years of academic work, to enter their professions without receiving 1 cent. [[Congrats from the CH.]] It is the legacy of the Socialist Party that we want to fight. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u105	To submit Bill No 178 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Regulatory reform of professional public associations, combating corporateism and democratizing access to professions ( first amendment to Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 ), Mr Rui Rocha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft regulation of regulated professions and orders presented by the Liberal Initiative is part of two fundamental principles which, after some interventions we have heard, must be remembered. The first principle is that of exceptionality, i.e. there is no right to order, there is a right to non-order. There is a right to freedom to provide services, and that is the fundamental principle. [[Applause from the IL.]] This is because the existence of orders must, as I say, have exceptional nature. And why? Because, when we are talking about orders, there are at stake possibilities for monopolies, incomes, income extraction and entry barriers. This is all the more serious than it is true that the barriers to entry are normally addressed to two very clear groups: the younger ones, often subject to these barriers when the older ones in the professions did not have to overcome; and foreigners, thus seriously violating the principles of freedom of movement, the provision of services and the establishment provided for in European law, in particular. The Liberal Initiative recognises, in fact, the existence of some orders, in accordance with well-defined criteria and always in an exceptional perspective. We are talking about criteria relating to human health, intervention in areas of fundamental rights and safety, particularly with regard to physical safety, buildings and other works. The second fundamental principle in which the proposal for the Liberal Initiative is organised is that of competition and, in this context, there is a challenge I wanted to make. The existence of orders in areas where this is admitted has to do with, inter alia, defending the interests of users, with regulation and with disciplinary power, so I ask: in which is it that any of these interests are affected when there is the possibility of competition between orders? It's not damaged, it's favored. That is how it should be and that is what promotes the satisfaction of any of these interests and combats corporate interests. [[Applause from the IL.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the proposal of an interest-free party that does not give in to corporate interests. It is a proposal that probably could not be tabled by any other party in this House and it is a proposal that goes the right way. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u107	Made the presentations of the bills under review, we proceed to the stage of the debate itself. For an intervention, Mrs Paula Cardoso of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bills under discussion, the PS, the Arrival, the Liberal Initiative and the NAP, have underlying the need to : eliminate entries in access to regulated professions; ensure that the rules imposed by professional organizations are not an unjustified and disproportionate obstacle to the exercise of the fundamental right to free choice of professional activity; separate the regulatory function from representative function; equip the organisations with independent supervision; open access to partnerships, to the ownership and management of professional enterprises, to individuals from other professions; allow multidisciplinary companies with the presence of various professional sectors; improve the defence of recipients of services — in the opinion of these projects, mainly in the Socialist Party —, creating the customer provider; and empower new business models, more in line with consumer requirements and much more innovative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u109	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u110	The PS project even concludes that with these amendments it will create more employment and boost economic growth. But this is the scenario that sells us, why do the most diverse professional orders raise numerous suspicions of the will of these laws, even accusing us that we are faced with political interference and an attempt to govern it, with loss of autonomy, emptying orders and, in some cases, with a frontal attack on the dignity of the profession? After hearing the proposals, it seems that these amendments are even those that the orders need and want. When we listen to orders, we find a series of criticisms and we realize that these are not the changes that the orders want.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u111	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u112	For the PSD, there are principles that are guiding and on which our decision will be based. There can be no discrimination in the access of new graduates to regulated professions,... [[PSD applause.]] ... as well as unjustified or disproportionate obstacles. Professional orders must be independent and there must be a guarantee of the rights and interests of service recipients. Will these projects answer these questions? Starting with the principle, these projects put in the same bag various professions and with multiple particular specificities. Let us see: some practice acts of public authority; others even provide a public service; some are completely private; others are of high technical and scientific complexity. Finally, they will be under the same legal regime disparate realities and, in some cases, even conflicting. PSD is not a corporate ideology party, but it does not defend the interference of the state and the emptying of the competences of professional orders. The PSD understands and recognizes that this legal regime can be improved, as it recognizes the need to set limits and regulate the access of young graduates to regulated professions. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the first task of professional orders is to defend the public interest, in particular, by ensuring the common citizen the necessary confidence in regulated professions. In other words, the main interest of the orders is to ensure that the citizen, when resorting to a doctor, an engineer, a lawyer or someone with any other profession, is assured that he is before a competent professional, accredited and qualified for the exercise of that activity, and are the orders, by delegation of the State, the guarantor of this security for the citizen. The PSD knows that this law is condemned to be passed by the majority of the Socialist Party. Knowing this, the PSD's commitment to work, in the field of expertise, to improve this law, in particular in questions where doubts persist and in which the law is little or no clear. For example, the notice of revocation of Article 5. the PS proposal may lead to private notaries no longer exist. Ask yourself: is this the intention of the PS, in line with the proposal of the Liberal Initiative? Is it intended to extinguish half of the professional orders? Multidisciplinary companies, the way they are regulated, in fact, are deregulated. Let's imagine: a Russian investor, a fund or a holder of capital implements a company in which from psychological follow-up to medical, legal, financial, accounting, babysitting and even veterinary care for pets. At some point, the accountant is faced with the situation of a client and, in accordance with his ethical and professional obligations, he has to report, under penalty of not doing so, a crime. In turn, your partner, lawyer, in the same situation, is obliged to keep professional secrecy. How to resolve this conflict? What is provided for in the law is a proposal that answers this question. The customer's provider, for example, also raises several doubts. Of course, how will the orders that live from the contributions of its members — some with little revenue — support the payment of this figure? And how can this provider be positioned in relation to the Ombudsman and even in relation to some ministries? See, for example, the case of notaries, who are subject to a public invitation to tender. Its possession, its disciplinary procedure, its removal, where appropriate, are the responsibility of the Minister of Justice. So how are the organs going to work with each other? Who's above who? And will the supervisory body have the power to pronounce itself in public consultations, as the law states? It is important to clarify, at least by the PS bench : does this mean that any sticker who wants to pronounce on matters of his height is silent? The PSD, as I have already said, will abstain in general, but it is a critical abstention — very critical! — by endeavouring to contribute to the amendments that you believe are absolutely essential. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u113	The Bureau records the registration of PS Pedro Delgado Alves to request clarifications. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Paula Cardoso, I would like to thank you for your speech, which actually allows several clues to a constructive debate. I would, however, like to leave you a question which seems relevant to us regarding the principles underlying this initiative. It is based on recommendations from the European Union and OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ).
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u115	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u116	Don't look at me!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u117	Look at that!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u118	Therefore, with regard to this conspirative idea, which we have heard in the air, that there is a desire to control professional orders, in fact, what is a desire to approach the regimes of other Member States, with a view to ensuring that there is no excessive restriction on access to professions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u119	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u120	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u121	It is a balanced principle and therefore a good principle for us to start listening to what the OECD and the European Union tell us. But the honourable Member has used a word that seems dangerous to me because, in fact, it does not correspond to the reality of professional orders. They must not be independent, they must, yes, be autonomous, and there is a substantial difference between one thing and another. This distinguishes, in particular, the judicial magistrates — those, yes, independent — from the magistrates of the Public Prosecutor's Office, who only have a status of autonomy. It was precisely at this point that I wanted to get there. In several aspects which you have mentioned — as regards the provider, the general council, the disciplinary council — it is important to stress that all these order bodies will be elected by the associates, i.e. by the members of that professional category. Nothing will be strictly imposed on them. There will be no party in this House, no government, no other state body to designate them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It will be the voters of this order who will designate and select these personalities. So I ask: does the PSD not agree with this principle of openness to independents, for example, in the general councils of universities? Is not the PSD a party that has agreed—and even in its current leadership has emphasized—with the importance that there are external elements in the senior councils of the judiciary or the Public Prosecutor’s Office that guarantee diversity and pluralism? But the point is precisely this, ensuring that this presence of external elements opens up to society the way orders act and how they are followed, in a context where they do not lose their fundamental characteristics of being elected and selected by their members. [[Protests by PSD Member Hugo Martins de Carvalho.]] Finally, very briefly, I leave two notes. First, the law provides that multidisciplinary societies, which are very complex, have autonomous treatment—not at this headquarters—which will have to be densified, and we thank the availability they show. Then, as far as suppliers are concerned — and to finish — it is also a matter for which there is no doubt in our legal order. The Ombudsman does not decide.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u122	But vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u123	The Ombudsman has a recommendation function that does not replace the functions that all the other Public Administration will have and,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u124	Vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u125	... in this sense, this function of ensuring the position and protection of the recipients of the services seems particularly positive, giving the margin for those who, with their recommendations, have to decide to continue to do so, but with this component. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u126	In reply, Mrs Paula Cardoso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u127	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is only to say that, of course, the PSD is available to deal with these issues, mainly with multidisciplinary societies, where I think there is a lot of work to be done. There is a European directive, which I recommend that you read, except for a number of situations — in Article 25. o —, therefore, is not exactly what you are saying. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u128	For an intervention, Mr José Moura Soeiro, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u129	Mr President, a lot has been said. In fact, we are going back to a debate which this Parliament has already done on a previous occasion. The Left Block is obviously in favour of clear rules that protect people in choosing their profession and protect workers, particularly trainees, in the exercise of their work. This debate on the stages, in this particular aspect, is quite old. I remember that in 2010, when the then Government of the Socialist Party put forward a proposal to make it compulsory to pay the internships, it was the Socialist Party's own Parliamentary Group which changed the Government's proposal to release offices of lawyers and architects from the obligation to pay their trainees. at that time, the lobby of lawyers' offices went through these corridors and took the best away. What we have today, particularly in these sectors, is the following: unpaid professional internships; enrollment rates that constitute a robbery, particularly for young people of families who are not rich; too long traineeships; the obligation imposed by professional orders, in particular by lawyers, to repeat the evaluation of content that people have already had during their training and for which they have already been evaluated; this situation of young people who go to the world of work have to pay for work; the profusion of false green receipts, in particular between architects and lawyers, with the ‘biombo’ that these professions are liberal when objectively they have undergone wage-making processes that make many of these service providers actually work on behalf of others. What we have had is, in short, an abuse of the precarious work of trainees with the active convivence of some orders. We do not defend a market without rules. Is there a need for regulated professions? Oh, my God! Yes, there must be regulated professions. Is there a need for bodies to measure the ethical commitment in the exercise of professions? Oh, my God! Of course, and orders have a role to play there. Is there a need for regulation of working conditions? Oh, my God! Absolutely, but this is different from allowing confusion and usurpation of functions and competences. There are trade unions for labour representation. They negotiate working conditions and hold collective conventions and it is in them that workers register freely. There are no mandatory registrations in the unions. It's the unions that make the job representation of the workers, it's not the orders. To define what knowledge and qualifications are needed for a particular profession there is the Agency for Evaluation and Accreditation of Higher Education. It's not the orders that have to define that. They have neither that competence nor that power. I repeat: they do not have that competence. In order to define labour, education and training policies, to define the number of clauses, to monitor the government and the institutions protected by it there is a Parliament elected by the people. It is not a corporate representation — be it the Order of Doctors, social consultation or the Order of Advocates — that replaces, materially or symbolically, our democratic function and representation. We have therefore identified good contributions in several of the projects presented. We do not follow all the proposed standards—for example, we do not follow the very liberal multidisciplinary professional societies, we do not have any fascination with external personalities, we do not follow solutions such as the anti-union standard, which has persisted in the Socialist Party project and which limits the rights of union leaders—but we are available to advance in this debate, in this clarification and in the protection of rights, in particular the rights of young trainees. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u130	We now turn to the intervention of Mr Rui Tavares of the Free Party. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u131	Mr President, the reason for being central to the orders is one: they can self-regulate, in ethical and technical terms, professions whose errors or bad practices, if they occur, can be prevented in a preventive and continuous manner — in the courts it would be too late! — and in which professionals are not civil servants, for example. That is why we do not need to have an order from the police—although they work in justice, as some of the orders that the Liberal Initiative wants to extinguish—because they are civil servants, not in order from historians, because the public debate is more than enough to regulate the quality of the work produced. It will therefore follow proposals which aim to preserve this self-regulation function, but will not follow proposals which are intended to make guild orders — to create barriers to the profession, which is incorrect — or which are intended to create competition between the orders, which would make them trade unions, which is what they should not be. We will follow the end of unpaid internships and the end of barriers to access to professions. There is no point in wanting to end the Order of Veterinaries and maintain the Order of Physicians—and, in this respect, the Free will follow-CL. [[At this moment, he took the presidency of Vice-President Adam Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u132	Thank you very much, Mr Rui Tavares. I would like to congratulate the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Following our debate, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor by the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a discussion which ultimately passes from the previous Parliament, considering even initiatives that were presented by the Socialist Party and by the PAN, in particular, and which are subjects that we discussed in October 2021. Considering this, the position of the CFP has not changed. Thus, the reflection we make, the matters we accompany, the doubts we have and the matters we oppose remain. Of course, we do not oppose, for example, the prior auscultation of external entities to the professions concerned, such as university, scientific or other institutions, which is, in fact, a proposal contained in the Socialist Party's project, and we understand that this range can be extended and improved, as far as these same entities are concerned. The PS also proposes, on its own initiative, that professional orders be prohibited from imposing restrictions on the freedom of access and exercise of the profession by act or regulation. For us, this is indeed a very relevant issue, because one of the problems our society faces today has to do with the professional integration of young people with higher education. Access to a profession regulated by a professional order after obtaining an academic degree, which, in fact, gives you skills for the exercise of that profession, remains a huge problem for thousands of young people. It must be acknowledged that a number of professional orders do not only contribute to resolving this problem as they do, on the contrary, contribute to hindering access to the profession through the imposition of elimination tests or other administrative obstacles. For example, it is not entirely acceptable that, in a country where there is a deep shortage of family doctors, the Order of Physicians pronounces itself, as you have already done, against the extension of the supply of medical courses in public universities, with the argument that we do not need to train more doctors. Just as it is not also acceptable for young people who belong to the most qualified generation to always be obliged to beg for the frequency of free internships, or even if they are physically remunerated, or to attend double stages to have access to a profession for which they have the qualifications legally considered and required for the exercise of these same functions. Therefore, following these proposals, we follow the measures which provide that only a professional internship can be required when it is not an integral part of the course which confers this academic qualification, and we also agree that the stages involving the provision of work should be compulsoryly paid. This is not to put professional orders as employers, but rather to ensure that the entities benefiting from these stages adequately remunerate the young people who are performing these same functions. With regard to other matters which have been addressed in some way, but on which we would also like to pronounce ourselves, it is important to say that, with regard to the supervisory body which is proposed, in particular by the Socialist Party, as regards the inclusion of persons of recognized merit in this same body and in the disciplinary body, we have no fundamental or principled objection. We understand, yes, that it has to be safeguarded that the entities that make up these bodies: they have their qualifications recognized by the professionals themselves; they should not, at all, be imposed from outside; and, above all, they cannot be mostly in these same bodies. At the same time, a matter which we believe must be carefully considered in the proposals has to do with the creation of an element of ineligibility of former union leaders, so that they cannot integrate bodies into professional orders. This is an element that we think has to be, indeed, very thoughtful, until we understand that it cannot be determined that having been a union leader is a factor that makes a citizen not eligible for any body to be applied for. As such, this is something that naturally makes us have deep reservations about what is at stake here. Finally, and even to end, I wanted to say that there is something that the CFP rejects completely, which has to do with the proposal for recognition of multidisciplinary societies, because we can come to have a multidisciplinary society with a wide range of professionals from various areas — lawyers, architects, accountants, applicants, doctors, nurses — in which everyone is hired by a salary as well as that the boss is, for example, an economic group. This is a path that, of course, in addition to exacerbating the exploitation of these professionals, raises serious problems, even in the field of deontology and professional secrecy, whether in the context of confidential information, independent assessments and exempt from cases or the way in which professionals operate, who are in the hands of their employers, i.e. of the economic groups that hire them, and there may be a risk of non-compliance with the ethical duties of each of these professions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u134	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u135	I will finish, Mr. President. Of course, with this set of reservations and this firm opposition to multidisciplinary societies, we have the willingness to, in particular, contribute so that a set of these problems can be solved and that the final initiative effectively presents the necessary solutions in this discussion. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u136	You now have the floor, for an intervention by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Alexandra Leitão.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u137	Mr. President, dear and dear Mr. Members: The project we discussed, of the Socialist Party, comes from the previous Parliament, has been the subject of many hearings of various professional orders—almost all—and it is a different project than that which has expired by the end of the previous legislature. This is, in fact, the proof of the openness that we later manifested in the work in speciality. This initiative, which goes to the meeting—yes! — international recommendations, has three main objectives. The first is to eliminate unjustified restrictions on internships, access to the profession, as has already been widely mentioned, which, moreover, brings into question social justice. When it is paid to do internships instead of receiving from the work done, we are challenging social justice, because they will surely be the poorest who will not be able to do these stages. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This project also aims to strengthen the protection of beneficiaries, i.e. the customers of these services, through the figure of the supplier, which is not new. It was already the law, but now it is compulsory. Finally, it intends to give transparency to the regulation of professions. How? Oh, my God! Introducing out of order people into a particular body, which we did not create, was already in force. Yes, by introducing people who are out of that order, but who are not appointed by the government or elected by this House. They are people elected by the organs of their own order and that is why, frankly, the arguments of governmentalization or politicization are not perceived! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Having said this, we are available to improve and discuss the project in various dimensions, i.e. to simplify the number of members of the supervisory body, where appropriate, by referring to the statutes of each body; to revisit the powers of the supervisory body, either in matters of discipline or in matters of public consultation, allowing, for example, the orders they wish to do so to be able to market instruments strictly necessary for the exercise of the profession; among other aspects, on which, I repeat, we express availability to work in particular. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u138	You now have the floor for an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Emilia Cerqueira.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I am pleased to hear that the PS is at the disposal of reviewing this matter in the field of expertise, but I hope that it will be at your disposal in what really becomes a great inconvenience and that it will mutilate, and very much, the objective of the orders, which is their independence in order to regulate regulated professions and not to have a state control—because that is what we are talking about! This is not just what has been presented to us — in fact, the initial presentation reminded me of yesterday's article of the Observer, which was already to prepare the political discourse here, in which basically the reasons are the same — with regard to the kind part of the bill, with which we all agree. In fact, barriers to access to the profession must be eliminated. We have known, over the years, some situations that have difficulty—in so much! — the lives of our young people, and it is important that the most qualified generation can always get access to professions. In view of the current reality, the PSD also considers it important to take steps for the remuneration of the internships, but not a remuneration without responsibility, such as the PS or, leaving to the employers its public service and still a charge. It is possible that many young people will never be able to train.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u140	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u141	Yes, the State must assume this responsibility, in compulsory stages in professions of public interest, and finance it, in particular through the European Funds of the IEFP (Instituto de Employo e Formation Professional),...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u142	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u143	... by creating a simple, easy and agile model, so that young people are paid in their stages with the dignity they deserve, when they are the best and best-formed of ever, so that they don't spend another one to two years with their parents to have to endure them, often with difficulties—yes, because it really affects those who are less able—to get access to the profession.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u144	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u145	Therefore, the PSD will always be next to the solution that facilitates the lives of young people.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u146	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u147	Having said this, there is another less sympathetic side, that of the attempt to control orders, and that is what they don't want to talk about. The supervisory body, contrary to what they tried to sell us during this debate, is even to control the uncomfortable orders!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u148	It's true! All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u149	Let's go to your constitution. The supplier, in addition to that collision he may have, is chosen by the staff on a proposal from the supervisory body, whose majority of members are non-professional in the area — here is the control! — in particular university teachers. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u150	Who chooses them? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u151	This is the way to empty out. More: the powers this supervisory body has...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u152	It's the order you choose!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u153	Mr. Elect, you are absolutely right. It has no choice, because otherwise it would be in violation of the statutes and even risk being unable to continue as an order, because it violates the law as a public-interest organization, as you should know. He just doesn't know this who's just academic and never worked on the reality of professional orders.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u154	Well, there it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u155	The real world is the real world, but it seems to me that you don't know it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u156	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u157	I will even conclude, Mr President, by saying that the PSD is prepared to fight, yes, and to present proposals in the specialty to facilitate access to the profession and also to maintain the dignity and independence so necessary for these professions of public interest. They are very different from each other, but PS treats them all as equal, because some are more uncomfortable and it is appropriate to move them away and shut them down, controlling them through supposed supervisory bodies. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u158	All right! [[Protests by PS MP Joana Sá Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u159	You now have the floor to speak by the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u160	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very briefly, I would like to point out that Mr Pedro Delgado Alves said that the orders are not independent, they are autonomous, being disturbed by that expression, but I quote Mrs Alexandra Leitão, who, on 24 June this year, was a few days ago, Mr — he said: "It is necessary to strengthen the independence of the regulation. The independence, quality of services and access to regulated profession must be strengthened. "Independence", I quote!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u161	The independence of regulation!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u162	Yes, of course! Regulation and regulatory bodies are, in fact, very different things! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u163	They are, they are!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u164	They're not! When you say that you will not open the door to governmentization, Mrs. Member, that is the same as saying that student associations are not open to politicization because they are elected by the students. We're going to fall into reality and know what we're talking about! [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[Protests by PS deputy Pedro Delgado Alves.]] It's very simple. Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, for guidance and frankness, says Article 8 ( 8 ). the proposal of the Socialist Party that there is an external member in the evaluation of the jury. What's the point of this? Oh, my God! A stage made, all of him, within the order is then evaluated by someone out of order? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u165	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u166	There are many orders you already have!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u167	They've got, but bad! It says Article 15. the same proposal: "the body of discipline becomes constituted with personalities who are not members of the order. » That is, a non-medical will evaluate the behavior of a doctor! Let's be frank, what's the point of this? None!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u168	All right! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u169	You have to assume that this makes no sense! Worse: they talk about paid internships, but they refer to the statutes of these associations, because they do not have the courage to say how they will pay them and oblige your parliamentary leader to say that it may be with the single social rate or with tax benefits.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u170	All right! [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u171	Tell me how they're gonna pay the internships. That's what you'd have to say! [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u172	For an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, Mr Matos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u173	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is indeed impressive how uncomfortable it is in some parliamentary groups and in some segments of Portuguese society, we will end the flood of young people working without receiving, being limited in their access to vocational training, in their access to their profession. [[CH Member's Protests André Ventura.]] Now, is it not enough to force young people to do unpaid internships and go through tests, one after the other, completely abstract? [[Protests by PSD Member Emília Cerqueira and CH Member André Ventura.]] Is it not enough for you that, after graduating, young people have to study and be evaluated for what they've been through and what they've shown when they were in college? Is it not enough for you to see the hundreds of euros that orders are charging, those, yes, tax and tax revenues, that multiply with values and numbers? [[Mr Pedro dos Santos Frazão's laughs.]] They are raising the pope's bug from the stages, but we already have professional orders that demonstrate that it is possible to pay the internships and respect young people without this entailing a reduction in the supply of the number of internships. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] This is the case, for example, with the Order of Psychologists and so many other orders that they walk around. The State already supports internships in other areas and, yes, we must ensure that anyone entering the profession is qualified, but it cannot be qualified by the bank account nor can it be disqualified by the corporate system of orders. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why the PS does not furnish the foot of the defense of young people and their freedom of access to the profession. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u174	I now give the floor to Mr Pedro Pinto for an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We saw in this speech by Mr Miguel Matos that he did not read the project of arrive.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u176	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u177	He saw himself clearly! If there is a project that says exactly what he said is ours, because we are facilitating the stages and we will remunerate them. [[Congrats from the CH.]] Therefore, surely the Socialist Party will vote in favour of the project presented by the Arrival. Then I see the PS very concerned about young people, but I do not see him talking about reducing the youth unemployment rate, which is now almost 23%.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u178	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u179	That's why the PS should worry, but don't worry. When these initiatives were presented publicly, in the past legislature, the PS and the Government were accused of direct interference in the activity of professional orders, which claim their independence and do not receive any public support. Of course, the presentation of the PS bill was made without hearing the orders, an error that, now, the PS repeated again.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u180	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u181	It's not us who say it, it's the canyons!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u182	Twice!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u183	The cantonaries of the Orders of Lawyers, Engineers and Physicians reported that they had not previously been heard about the draft diploma,... [[Protests by PS MP Joana Sá Pereira.]] ... which translates into an attempt by the government to control its activity, withdrawing its main mission, which is to protect citizens. [[Congrats from the CH.]] The Socialist Party does not want to hear orders because it knows it will be faced with these problems. I quote: "The orders, so far, were independent. We are here to help the country, not political parties", Miguel Guimarães, Bastonary of the Order of Doctors; « Orders are not unions. The diploma aims to place the orders under external protection, limit the acts reserved and aims to disqualify professionals", Luís Menezes Leitão, Bastonário do Ordem dos Advocates ; « The paternityist measures of the PS appear to be based on a principle of distrust and can address the autonomy of the orders, the credibility of the institutions and, ultimately, the interest of the citizens », Francisco Rodrigues, Bastonário da Ordem of Psychologists.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u184	Exactly! [[Protests from BE José Moura Soeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u185	The Socialist Party, with this proposal, sells the idea that it wants to liberalize the market, but what it really wants is to control orders. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u186	Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u187	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u188	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u189	Mr President, it was in order to request the distribution of the records of the hearings requested by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, in the current and previous parliaments, which demonstrates, to the satisfaction, the falsity of what Mr. Pedro Pinto has just noted, because all professional orders were heard in the previous legislature, as well as a series of them in the present.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u190	Here come the documents, Mr. Let us turn to Mr Rodrigo Saraiva's parliamentary group on the Liberal Initiative. You have the floor, sir. [[Pause.]] It was absolute silence to hear you Ex.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u191	The silence is over.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are debating this issue again, as we did in the previous legislature, and we must return to it because the legislation has been interrupted. So let's do that. Today we are debating a necessary reform and defending something that is the fight against corporateism. I am not going to congratulate the Socialist Party on this agenda because, if it is necessary to congratulate this reform on it, these congratulations will have to be given — in the lexicon of the CFP — to the Brussels dictatorships, because it is an imposition which Brussels has made on Portugal for several years now. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u193	Don't look at me!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u194	It's the PS that schedule! It's the PS that does it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u195	He was in the memoir of the troika and is now within the scope of the PRR. Therefore, if you congratulate the Socialist Party, you will only be reforming because you need the financial envelope of the PRR.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u196	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u197	I was hoping that the references to our bill would be more focused on what is the clause, as we called it, if there was competition, but the references to that aspect were brief. Only the Free Party and the Party arrived made references to this clause, but I am not surprised by Mr Ventura to understand what we want with this bill, because I am not expecting you to understand what liberalism is, what freedom is, what is competition, what incentives competition brings and that improves the provision of services to people and citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u198	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u199	So our bill is also a starting point. Here comes the discussion in the specialty, because we will be there to ensure that this reform progresses and that there will be no setbacks in the projects presented, and well, on this subject. [[Applause from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u200	We are now in a position to move to the closure of this item on the agenda. Thus, for an intervention by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group presents in this Chamber for the second time an initiative within the framework of professional orders. Do it in the XIV legislature and it is doing it now, because, to a large extent, this is an initiative to promote social justice and democracy. In Portugal, we have a framework of limitation, in particular to younger people, in access to professions that, throughout history, in particular of Portuguese democratic history, have been creating barriers, access networks, becoming corporations that limit access, in particular to professional activity, to younger people. If we want to have an agenda for younger people, if we want to think about wages and the quality of employment, we also have to look at orders and how younger people have access to a set of professions. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u202	What the Socialist Party does today, in this Chamber, is to present an open diploma to the discussion of all those who realize that democracy and democratic participation have a framework in working life and that, to be free, this work life cannot have artificial barriers created by corporations. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u203	We realize that the extreme-right antidemocratic doesn't understand it, but we also realize that we're in the right place, because we've never been with any corporate regime.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u204	Antidemocratic? With 400,000 votes? Oh, my God! Enough of this conversation!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u205	The PS is against corporations and, therefore, makes sense that this democratic party presents legislation that fights...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u206	We're all democratic!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u207	... those who create difficulties and barriers to young people to have access to these professions: the same content, prices far above the market and with obvious limitations, repeating long-term stages that make no sense.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u208	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u209	I conclude, Mr. President. The Portuguese youth know that the Socialist Party is on their side and that is why we are presenting this proposal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u210	They don't like it, but they have to hold on! It's April 25th!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u211	Mrs. Members, let us move to the fourth point of our agenda, which consists in the general discussion of Bills Nos 141 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Change the Charter of Fundamental Rights in the Digital Age to ensure compliance with the right to freedom of expression, 179 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Protects freedom of expression online and 180 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Simplifies the regime of protection against misinformation by ensuring its articulation with the European Plan of Action against Disinformation, making the first amendment to Law No 27 / 2021 of 17 May, which approves the Portuguese Charter of Human Rights in the Digital Age. To present the initiative of the Arrival, Mr Bruno Nunes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u212	Mr President, first of all, a fact-finding: what Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias has just said is that he is undemocratic.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u213	Just like that! All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u214	What you just said, following the bills we are presenting, is that it is a very large anti-democratic principle. Another verification of facts: the PS has acknowledged that it has failed in the previous legislation, now proposing the repeal of Article 6. the, after a gross error for whose unconstitutionality the Ombudsman himself warned. All this has happened and it's happening. By the way, there was EUR 15 million for the press, which was managed as desired, but there was one thing that the Socialist Party could not control: social networks. However, the PS came to say that it would be important to use the ERC (Regulatory Entity for Social Communication ) — that it did not even have the means to do so and that it was clear to say so — and that anyone could do so to verify the facts that were being put there. The Socialist Party also wants to set up fact-finding companies. He was no longer able to have much of the controlled averages, either now to monitor the verification of facts through companies, in turn, controlled by the system itself. Yes, sir, this is anti-democracy. [[Congrats from the CH.]] They are not those who are sitting here, elected by 400 000 Portuguese than VV. They should respect, which are antidemocratic. Democrats are the 230 we're sitting here, like it or don't like it. As for our proposal, it is very clear that the repeal of Article 6. It must be immediate. However, we believe that we cannot enter a Venezuela-type logic, considering that, at a certain point, political parties can be limited, such as VV. Ex. have made some party leaders, notably André Ventura,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u215	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u216	...to whom they are limiting the way it may be on social networks. Therefore, our bill is clear: at no time political parties can be removed from the social networks by simply censorship of anti-democratics. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u217	For an intervention, by the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative, and also to present Bill No. 179 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Protects freedom of expression online, Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u218	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Less than a year ago, in this forum, I will close the legislative debate on the Portuguese Charter of Human Rights in the Digital Era — a debate marked by the Liberal Initiative, which has always given greater importance to this issue — in the following words: « The defence of individual freedoms will be difficult at times, but the first step today — that is, at the time — « we can make it easy and it is obvious: today we will begin by defending freedom of expression today by revoking Article 6. o. Do not keep on seeking. ” Well, this was a year ago. At the time, our proposal to repeal Article 6. it was rejected by a majority of votes, including 103 votes against the PS bench — the same PS that today has proposed the revocation of five of the six points of this article. What the IL said was easy and obviously took the PS for a year to see. Some will say: “It could have been worse, it could have never been understood. ” We say: "If the PS takes one year to realize the obvious, it does not admire the state of degradation to which they are letting the country reach, beginning with health and other public services". [[Applause from the IL.]] For the Liberal Initiative, the topic of Article 6. it was, in fact, obvious. It was obvious in the field of principles, because we believe that freedom of expression is essential to the health of a democratic society. Without freedom of expression there is no confrontation of ideas, there is no critical thought, there is no scrutiny, there is no scientific progress, there is no production of knowledge, there is no progress.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u219	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u220	In the legislative field it was even more obvious, because we have never accepted that this House and the Portuguese have been faked, saying that it was a transposition of this European Plan of Action against Information — so that the PS now says that it wants to essentially replace the bulk of Article 6. o. At the time we said that there were fundamental differences between the plan coming from Europe and the version that the PS wanted to get approved in Portugal. For example, the European plan provided that the party political discourse was excluded from the definition of misinformation, but the Portuguese version did not exclude it and, despite repeatedly urged by us, the PS never responded because it wanted to limit the political discourse.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u221	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u222	The European plan did not foresee any role of the State against fact-finding. The PS already wanted them to be evaluated by the State in Portugal and never — again, despite repeatedly being urged — answered the question « who will check the verifiers and who will check the verifiers? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Some kind of mystery of truth? It could only be. Finally, the PS was also preparing to limit any opinions that were, and I quote, "a threat to the process of drafting public policies". At the time, we also asked, several times: what process and what public policies? Who defines them? Is the PS and the PS government on shift? We didn't get any answers either. The PS now comes—a year ago and after the diploma has already stopped at the Constitutional Court, by the hands of the President of the Republic and the Ombudsman—propose almost total repeal of Article 6. o. And do so through a bill whose explanatory statement is perhaps an exercise of political contortionism, only to hide the simple fact that the PS presented, defended and approved a law that was wrong and of which he repented.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u223	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u224	It was better for the PS to make the mistake and make it sooner than later. But, finally, « better late than ever». It remains, however, an idea which is important for you to register, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members of Parliament. The idea remains that the defence of freedoms does not naturally come to the PS. The idea remains that the PS easily gives in to the policy of cancellation that the most sectarian left is promoting, a little everywhere, and the idea that the Liberal Initiative does not need to be reminded of the importance of defending freedoms, as regards Article 6. The letter of digital rights or anything else. Here we will be to defend individual freedoms, whenever they are under attack. [[Congratulations from the IL and from the CH Member Pedro dos Santos Frazão.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u225	Mr Bruno Aragão of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group now has the floor to present Bill No 180 / XV / 1. a ( PS ) — Simplifies the regime of protection against misinformation by ensuring its articulation with the European Plan of Action against Disinformation, making the first amendment to Law No 27 / 2021 of 17 May, which approves the Portuguese Charter of Human Rights in the Digital Age.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u226	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me to tell Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo that the Socialist Party and the Liberal Initiative are apparently moving at the same speed, because the Liberal Initiative also lasted one year between its abstention in the adoption of this Charter and the proposal for a revocation of Article 6. o [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u227	Six months! [[Protests by Members of IL Rodrigo Saraiva and Rui Rocha.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u228	The discussion generated around Article 6. the Portuguese Charter of Human Rights in the Digital Age reduced its scope to a single article and clearly prevented the discussion on the complex subjects it convenes. the rights of the authors of journalistic pieces to competition rules or the regulatory system, it is recognized that the legal framework and mechanisms of action prior to the Charter responded to a physical world that the digital reality had long surpassed. We must recognize that in seeking to face up to Article 6 as a whole. the, the threats arising from the phenomenon of misinformation, the legislator assumed with good intention the fight against a reality that can no longer be ignored. I believe that it was the recognition of the good intentions of this Charter that allowed a large majority in its approval—in fact, no vote against! — the result of the consensus sought and achieved in the specialty process. It has never been in question the restriction of freedom of expression or the prohibition, in any way, of judgments of value or opinion, and let us be very clear about this. Even so, if the doubts which arise and which persist hinder an exercise already complex, the legislator must recognise it and resolve it without difficulty, and therefore the repeal of Article 6(2) to (6) is proposed. the phenomenon of misinformation and broad consensus on its impact and its consequences, as well as the need to seek answers and solutions, remains real. This is why it is proposed to maintain paragraph 1 of this article by responding to the phenomenon of misinformation with the articulation within the framework of the European Action Plan against Disinformation. The discussion can be made more easily at European level and in the joint effort between the Member States. Demonstration of this very is the result of the European Commission's negotiation with the large digital platforms of measures to combat various types of misinformation, a negotiation in terms that have not caused disagreement and that, being applied by operators throughout the European Union, can waive the duplication of measures or standards specifically nationally. We therefore do not lose the essentials that generated the broad acceptance that gave approval of the Portuguese Charter of Human Rights in the Digital Age. Materials as central as the right to privacy of personal data or the right to forget—just to cite a few examples— continue to merit our attention. If, since its approval, we have developed legal instruments that allow, for example, the General Inspection of Cultural Activities to remove from the web content that violates copyright or if we adopt a social Internet tariff that seeks to guarantee equal access, it was certainly on appeal to the principles transposed by the Charter. in the same way, the discussion of the transposition of the copyright and related rights directive, the new European Code of Electronic Communications, the regulation of digital markets, the use of artificial intelligence systems or materials as concrete as the creation of a European area for sharing health data will certainly be more framed by a human rights charter in the digital age. in the meantime, after the approval of the Portuguese Charter, the Declaration of Lisbon—Digital Democracy with Purpose, which obtained the agreement of the 27 Member States, finally opened the door to a future European Charter of Fundamental Rights, in the same spirit of the Portuguese Charter : to make the Internet an area of security, confidence and balance, always difficult, between economic and technological development and the ethical principles that we certainly share. I therefore conclude: this Charter of Fundamental Rights, after the proposed amendment, will keep its purpose intact to be a map for the entry into a new era. This Charter is a map for us all to enter into a space of greater information and security, protecting rights, freedoms and guarantees and thus ensuring digital equality for all citizens. It is, in essence, the discussion that matters and that we always try to do, and it is also the discussion for which we are still of course available. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u229	The Bureau recorded the entry for clarification by Mr Bruno Nunes of the Czech Republic. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u230	Mr President, Mr Bruno Aragão, following his speech, the party arrives with a very simple question: given that they have acknowledged the lapse and returned—irrespective of the timing, if it was six months and not one year—VV. Do you consider or consider approving our project? Until it would be a way of demonstrating that they really respect the values of April, which they so much appreciate, with the free formation of political parties and that they are not target of censorship, because the only thing in which our proposal differs from yours is that the parties are not conditioned and in no way withdraw access to political parties. That's the question. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u231	To reply, in an effort of 8 seconds, Mr Bruno Aragão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u232	Very quickly, I would advise you to read the opinion of the National Data Protection Board on your party's proposal, because I think you are clearly responding to what you have said.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u233	Don't answer! Just say yes or no!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u234	And I would also recall, only to be registered, Directive No 3/ 2020 of the Arrival, which became known as the « roll law » or, if you wish, the « Ventura king's roll law » and which quickly responds to what it is, to silence domestically the political debate and the shared discussion. And about that I have nothing more to say. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u235	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u236	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u237	For an intervention, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u238	Would you like to make an intervention?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u239	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u240	But it is not now, Mr President. We already have entries for other speeches, so you are also registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u241	Mr. President, you said it, and that's why I'm talking.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u242	The honourable Member is registered to make an intervention. And, just to remember, they are registered at the moment — so that the honourable Member and his bench also synchronise themselves, the Member of the CFP Alma Rivera, the PSD Member Sara Madruga da Costa and the Free Member, Rui Tavares, and you, of course, can be registered at the moment, if you so want.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u243	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u244	So it will be. I shall now give the floor to the Parliamentary Group of the CFP, Mrs Alma Rivera. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u245	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When the Portuguese Charter of Human Rights in the Digital Age was discussed in this Parliament, justified by the fulfilment of the Action Plan against European Disinformation, the CFP shared several doubts and warned about questionable aspects that made it abstain in the final vote. It must be said, of course, that our Constitution has a broad acquis with regard to fundamental rights, where the roots of the rights of the digital age and their realization are laid down in terms of the use of digital means, for example, in the right to personal identity and image, in the development of personality, in the right to information and freedom of expression, among others. However, particularly in today's debate, it is important to remember that when it was established in Article 6. the epigraphed « Right to protection against misinformation », which the State protects « the society against natural or legal persons, of interest or de facto, who produce, reproduce or disseminate narratives considered to be misinformation », when it is said that « it supports the creation of factual verification structures by duly registered media bodies » or when « the allocation of quality stamps by trusted entities with public utility status » is defined, the CFP objected, even having been the only party to vote against these aspects in particular. However, the understanding was broadened that this rule was worrying about freedom of the press and expression. Moreover, since 31 March 2021, others have recognized that the PCP reserves were fair, because in our view the fight against misinformation or false news cannot be done from the imposition of « official truths », especially if we take account of the millionaire investment which the European Union itself, which gives lessons on this, does in terms of its own acceptance and of what they call « the promotion of our way of life », the European way of life, which would lead us to question the extent to which it is not the institutions themselves to condition opinions. We do not recognize the authority of the European Union to decide what it is or is not misinformation, if we do not even have to realize that nothing is happening, for example, at the level of human rights at the so-called external borders. But the provision of Article 6 ( 6 ) is also serious. the, where the State is entrusted with the responsibility of supporting, registering and assigning quality stamps to trusted entities for the so-called « fact checking ». It is also legitimate here to question with what criteria of reliability or public utility of these entities. Thus, if you put these issues and these reflections of the CFP, we will follow the initiative that corrects the extent of the problems laid down in Article 6. the, but we do not find the same usefulness in all of them, especially in that which, by instrumentalizing a real problem, exploits to legitimize the hate speech, acting in its own cause. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u246	For an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u247	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is no longer the first time we have discussed this important issue. In July last year, this Chamber discussed the repeal of Article 6. At the time, Mrs. and Mrs. Members, we warned against the Socialist Party position, we warned that the PS was proudly only defending the maintenance of this article and insisting on a path that made no sense and that was not followed by any other party at European level. We have listed some very elucidative examples of Spain, France, Germany, and Sweden, countries where there is no public entity capable of verifying the veracity of the facts, nor of awarding premiums to entities that award quality stamps. Even so, ladies and gentlemen. Members, despite all the warnings we have made, the PS preferred to keep the controversial article, rejecting its revocation. Now, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, back about a year, the PS seems to have hit the wall, it seems to have hit the wall of supervision of the President of the Republic and the Ombudsman. [[PS protests.]] You have changed your mind and, ladies and gentlemen, Members, finally acknowledges the error, proposing the repeal of Article 6. This is the case to say, ladies and gentlemen. Members, « better late than ever». We therefore welcome you and Mrs. Members, the repentance and retreat of the Socialist Party. It makes no sense to maintain this article, indeed, a position which, in consistency, we kept and defended last year. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is urgent to repeal Article 6. o and follow the path of the self-regulation proposed by the European Union. A more consistent path to independence and freedom of expression, a path that enables citizens to identify information and reject it, rather than granting powers to the State, which can indeed be dangerous, to certify the veracity of content. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, a final note to mention and point out the government's shyness in combating one of the greatest pandemics of the 21st century, misinformation. Government measures and policies are not known to owe this new reality. There are no known measures to implement the European action plan to promote transparency, digital literacy, independence and the quality of journalism. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u248	Journalism which is pointed out, according to the European plan, as one of the main remedies for combating misinformation, proliferation of false information on the Internet and consolidating democracy and the rule of law. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in this as well as in other very important matters, the government is again running behind the damage. The government is slow to act, it is slow to adopt measures to solve the problems of the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u249	I now give the floor to Mr Rui Tavares of the Free.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u250	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese Charter of Human Rights in the Digital Age has, if not, 23 articles. They know the difference between the articles establishing rights and Article 6. o? Do you know what word is most often used in all other articles? It is the word 'all'! "All have the right to..." is the normal language of a letter of rights. What is the word with which Article 6 begins. o? It is the « State », « The State ensures(...) ». In other words, as regards this article in a letter of rights, « does not beat the boot with the partridge ». What the PS now wants to do is revoke the five subsequent issues of the article, but keep the one who says that « The State ensures(...) ». We understand: there is room for combating misinformation; there is room for the implementation of European plans in this area; there is room for strengthening the serious press; there is room for supporting the verification of facts, but that is in the normal law. And from time to time, letters of rights establish rights and normal law seeks to ensure State duties. I think this is the root error of this article 6 graft. the Portuguese Charter of Human Rights in the Digital Age that the PS has not yet corrected and that, perhaps now, will have the opportunity to correct, if following the views of the other parties in this Hemicycle, including the Free.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u251	You now have the floor for an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the Arrival, Mr Bruno Nunes.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u252	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I may have tried to use the regimental figure of defense of honor, but there are statements that do not attack us in this sense, because our honor will not be offended, in any way, by the PS bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u253	Good!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u254	Mr Bruno Aragão, recently there is news that the PSD has an internal process of expulsion, or removal, of 180 militants. Consider it, VV. Ex. PSD an antidemocratic party? Take it, here! They assume they're alone, that you're the only ones who can. But, speaking of your party, would you like to explain to me what happened to Antonio José Seguro? [[Congrats from the CH.]] Do you want to explain to me what Antonio José Seguro did? Or would you like to explain to us the news that the Socialist Party is considering accepting or not 200 Roma ethnic militants? [[Congrats from the CH.]] You want to explain? Are you coming to tell me about the roll law? Oh, my God! We don't take moral lessons coming from your side, be very rested. [[PS protests.]] So you have a lot to explain about the fact-finding. And there are things we are absolutely sure that, in the part of the verification of data that are not true — to say nothing else — we have a lot of difficulty in discussing with you. You have such a strong propaganda machine that they tell the lie so often that they make it true.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u255	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u256	And what they do today, with the creation of these companies, is an attempt to get past this and to manipulate it. But they will not succeed, because for us, in an expression that they really like to use, you « will not pass». [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u257	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u258	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block considers that misinformation only fights with information. And for that reason, we have already proposed in the past — having been rejected here, with votes against several benches — that, in particular young students, have access, within the school, to a subscription to a newspaper to their choice, in order to be able to access quality information and, from the outset, to get used to this culture of reading news — validated by those who have a deontological letter to follow — and to have a critical view on the facts that we often realize are not facts — lies. That, unfortunately, didn't happen. But it is absolutely necessary, because what we are discussing, as a result of the Portuguese Charter of Human Rights in the Digital Age, is in practice an extension of this problem. And we always consider the same: either going to the root, which is through access to information, or everything else is going after the damage. From this point of view, we do not condemn the existence of the Portuguese Charter of Human Rights in the Digital Age, it is valid, in abstract, but runs behind the damage, because it does not guarantee the fundamental, which is access to a culture of information duly validated by those who are the intermediaries of the facts, which are the media. That should be one of the fundamental pillars. On the other hand, it also gave a greater guarantee of fitness, independence of social communication, which is of no lesser importance in this context. Unfortunately, we are now in this debate correcting a mistake in Article 6. what is in fact beyond the rest of the Portuguese Charter of Human Rights in the Digital Age. We will follow the claims to remove the substantial part of this article. We believe, however, that this elimination does not alter the fundamental substrate of what I said earlier: or we resolve, on the one hand, the access to information by the population — starting with young people — or we resolve the capacity of strong and independent media bodies, or we will always be dependent on misinformation campaigns. And it is curious, in this debate, that we will see until we arrive as the palate of misinformation. And now we are going to the fact-checker, which is the party that — in fact — is more often in the verifications of facts proven to be a liar;...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u259	Liar? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u260	... that it has leaders — indeed — condemned by the spread of false information; that it has leaders — indeed — condemned by defamation, it now presents itself here as a palate of truth, when, in fact, we know that they are more propagators of lies. [[CH protests.]] But they are not the center of this debate. This debate is about defending campaigns like those they orchestrate and, from this point of view, I believe that we, as a society, must do more. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u261	For an intervention, Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u262	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is no doubt that the issue we are discussing today is really complex. Now, what is not justifiable is that the errors of the positions taken are not recognised, since it is already the second time that we have discussed this important issue of the repeal of Article 6. the and, therefore, we think it would be good for the Socialist Party to recognize the error, amend the hand and be able to justify why, a year ago, it voted in a diametrically opposite sense to this one. It was not for lack of warning from the PSD Parliamentary Group, because at the time we warned that the Socialist Party was in contravention and even listed examples from several countries at European level that have nothing on this subject and that are in the opposite direction of self-regulation. We would also like to highlight here and highlight that we still do not understand the position of the Left Block. The Left Block, a year ago, also approved the position of the Socialist Party, in order to be against the repeal of Article 6. the and now we have doubts about whether or not they are in favour of maintaining this controversial article. It is regrettable that you have not justified your position on such a matter, which is indeed of particular importance.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u263	I just said! You have to listen!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u264	As regards the PSD Parliamentary Group, the position is clear. Since last year, we have defended the urgency of the repeal of this article and the adoption of measures towards self-regulation, which is the policy which has been adopted by most European countries. So, in this regard, we think that we will finally be able to repeal this controversial article and bring justice to the criticisms that have been made to it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u265	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Nunes, of the Parliamentary Group of the United States of America, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u266	Mr President, I regret that when we used the word 'hypocrisy' we were called to the attention, but when we are called 'liars', nobody does anything at all. [[Congrats from the CH.]] [[L. Protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u267	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u268	I just wanted to be able to check the facts and ask: Is it true or is it a lie that a former advisor to the Left Block, while he was in office, said « the boss of the cops »? Oh, my God! Is it true or is it a lie that a councilman from Lisbon City Hall of the Left Block acquired a property from the way he acquired it, when he was talking about real estate speculation? Oh, my God! False facts are not ours, you are eximilar to that, they come from the time of the yellow truck of Coimbra, but one day I will tell you this story. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u269	Aldrabones!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u270	This concludes this debate. In order to close this fourth item on our agenda, I have the floor of Mrs Rita Matias's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u271	Ex. Mr. President, Mr. Members: At the close of this debate scheduled by the Arrival, it is important to remember the article that the Socialist Party, with its dictatorial ticks, wanted to impose in a subtle way in the previous legislation. [[Protests of PS Members.]] I quote: 'The State supports the creation of fact-finding structures by properly registered media bodies and encourages the allocation of quality stamps by trusted entities with public utility status. Do not keep on seeking. ” What media agencies would that be? On what basis and on what criteria would they assess the quality of information? Would the separation of political power and these organs be safeguarded?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u272	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u273	These are questions that have yet to be answered and, if we are here today to revoke this and other points from the letter of the alleged digital rights, it is only and only the result of the outrage of civil society, which has mobilized, saying that it would not allow the introduction of censorship, the 'blue pencil' and the control of freedom of expression. [[Congrats from the CH.]] But it is also important to say that the Socialist Party does not give a no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no- and if it seems to go back with its word and try to solve the legislative mess that it created, it is only and only because it knows that it can count on other instruments to control dominant narratives.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u274	All right! [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u275	Without prejudice to freedom of communication, it is important to say that we are currently sending political power and the media bodies, particularly with regard to fact-checkers. And I leave these examples as cartoons. [[Protests of PS and L Members.]] At the beginning of this legislature, Ana Gomes, presidential candidate, figure towards the Socialist Party and activist « anti-Chegue», was accused of having built an illegal pool and annex in her home of Sintra. What was the response of these fact-checkers? It's been an absolute silence for 102 days! [[Congrats from the CH.]] We also see a Member here, in this Chamber, seriously violating the Statute of Members. What does SIC's Polygraph say? Absolutely nothing, for 79 days. However, any sympathizer, leader or activist of the party arrives sees their posts verified daily by these supposedly exempt instruments. [[Congrats from the CH.]] So the following question arises in the air: after all, what is the narrative that the Socialist Party allows and that its satellite parties authorize? Oh, my God! As a final note and to conclude, Mr President, it is important to say that this letter appears during the Portuguese Presidency of the European Council. It was important for the Socialist Party to clarify why it wanted to implement censorship in the social networks and in the media during the Portuguese Presidency. Was it to do a favor to Brussels or to impress European leaders? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u276	Ah! A favor to Brussels!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u277	And if so, what does this tell us about the Socialist Party and what does it tell us about Brussels? [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u278	We therefore conclude this fourth point on our agenda. Mrs Palmira Maciel, Secretary of the Bureau, has some relevant information to transmit to us and there is a vote on an opinion of 14. the Commission, which needs to be done. Mr. Deputy Secretary of Table Palmira Maciel has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u279	Mr. President and Mr. Members of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, we have received the following opinion: « The waiver of the mandate of Depute Graça Maria da Fonseca Gonçalves fulfils the legal requirements, and continues to be replaced by Alexandra Nunes Esteves Tavares de Moura, with effect from 29 June 2022, including. It occupies the position left vague on a final basis in its electoral circle, due to the resignation of the mandate presented, Mr. João Miguel Macarico Nicolau, the first substitute of the Lisbon electoral circle, which thus passes from temporary effective deputy to effective deputy by that electoral circle. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u280	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The floor continues to be used by Mrs.Mr. Secretary of Table Palmira Maciel.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u281	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that Mrs Edite Estrela was present at this plenary session by video conference.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u282	We wish Mrs Edite Estrela a quick and happy restoration of the disease situation. You also have the floor of Mrs Palmira Maciel to announce an initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u283	Mr. President and Mr. Members, I would like to announce that you have entered the Bureau, and it has not been admitted, Bill No. 198 / XV / 1. a ( CH). [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-06-29.u284	Mrs. Members, the next plenary session takes place tomorrow, 30 June, at 3 p.m. and the agenda has been requested by the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Initiative, focusing on the theme « SOS SNS ». This agenda fixation drags an extraordinary number of bills and draft resolutions from various parliamentary groups. The following initiatives will therefore be discussed together: — Draft Law No 181 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Regulation and implementation of model family health units C ( Amendment to Decree-Law No 298/2007 of 22 August 2007 in its current wording ) ; — Resolution No 127 / XV / 1. a ( IL) — Plan to regularise late payments to the providers of the National Health Service, 128 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Recovery of care activity, 129 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Family physician for all users and 130 / XV / 1. a (IL) — Universal electronic health register; — Bill Nos 148 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — Access of citizens to supplementary consultations and methods of diagnosis and therapy in good time and according to their needs, 187 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Autonomy of the establishments and units of the National Health Service and extension of the authorization for investment and unplanned expenditure, 191 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Amendment to Decree-Law No 28 / 2008 of 22 February 2008 in its current wording, which approves the regime of the creation, structure and functioning of the health centres groups of the National Health Service and the Decree-Law No 298 / 2007 of 22 August, which approves the legal regime of the organization and operation of the family health units, 192 / XV / 1. a (BE) — Strengthening primary health care with doctor and family team for all users and universalization of access to oral, mental and other health care, 193 / XV / 1. a ( BE) — Measures to increase the number of professionals and promote team stability in the National Health Service, 194 / XV / 1. a ( PAN) — Creates an exceptional scheme of late payments to the entities of the National Health Service, for the purpose of amending Law No 8 / 2012, of 21 February, 195 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Recognition of the career of health assistant technician, 196 / XV / 1. a (NAP) — Change nursing career, restate justice and value essential workers to the National Health Service and the Country, changing several diplomas, and 197 / XV / 1. a (PAN) — Approves the exclusive dedication scheme applicable to health professionals; — Resolution No 66 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — By immediate hiring of health professionals to the Algarve region, ensuring that obstetric and pediatric services do not end, 103 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — For the protection of pregnant women in health care and at work, 133 / XV / 1. a ( CH) — By assigning a doctor of general and family medicine to all citizens, 134 / XV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Saving and valuing the National Health Service and valuing its professionals, 138 / XV / 1. a ( L) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a “Regression Health” Programme directed specifically to health professionals, and 139 / XV / 1. a (L) — Recommends that the Government encourage greater transparency in the private health sector. At the end of the debate there will be regular votes. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 35 minutes.]]
