ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government. Let us begin the work of the Standing Committee of the Assembly of the Republic. [[It was 15 hours and 3 minutes.]] The first item on the agenda is the discussion with the participation of the Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, post-European Council of 24 February and 10 and 11 March under Article 4 ( c ). the Law on the Monitoring, Evaluation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Union construction process. To open the debate, you have the floor by the Government, the Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, who I take advantage of to greet personally with all emphasis.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Two themes dominated the informal meeting of the European Council in Versailles, the first of which had already been the subject of the extraordinary Council on 24 February. I refer, of course, to Russia's war on Ukraine. The second theme was that of Europe's work in response to the consequences of this war, and also to the new context of uncertainty at all levels, which runs from it. With regard to the first issue, that of Russia's war on Ukraine, I would like to stress the unity of the Council and the clarity of its pronouncement. The first sentence of the Versailles Declaration, 'Russia brought war back to Europe', is self-explanatory and the characterization that the European Council makes of the ongoing events offers no doubt to anyone. This is a military aggression of Russia against Ukraine, an unprovoked aggression, an unjustified aggression and, therefore, in the light of the law, a war of aggression in which there are several strong indications that war crimes have been committed and are being committed, in particular the intentional targeting of civilians and civilian infrastructure. The European Council therefore supports the initiative already taken by the Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court to investigate these possible crimes. The Council also notes the active complicity of Belarus in this aggression against Ukraine and expresses Europe's support for Ukraine in the exercise of its right of defence and its right to defend its territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence. The Council reaffirms the European Union's political, material, economic and financial support to Ukraine, already under the Association Agreement, which must be reviewed in order to be deepened, and also in the subsequent steps to enable Ukraine's European perspective to be realistic and feasible. As for Russia, it deserves all our opposition, realized not only in political condemnation, but also in international isolation measures and in successive packages of economic and financial sanctions already decreed. The requirement put by European leaders is also stated in a totally non-ambiguous, totally unequivocal manner: the requirement for the immediate and unconditional cessation of hostilities and the withdrawal of troops by the Russian Federation. It is that firmness which, in the perspective of the European Council, opens the way for a political and negotiated solution to the conflict. On the second topic, the European Council will sign — and well! — the technical support that the war on Ukraine represents, either from the geopolitical and geo-strategic point of view or from the economic point of view, and proposes to move forward on three complementary fronts in the work that everyone is awaiting. The first is the strengthening of European defence capabilities, with increased investment in defence and dual-use, civilian and military goods and equipment, involving this investment in the field of science and innovation in Europe and stressing the importance of developing the European industrial base with the indispensable role of small and medium-sized enterprises. The second is the reduction of energy dependence on Russia and, in general, the reduction of dependence on fossil fuels, with the strengthening of renewable energy and green hydrogen and with the diversification of sources and supply routes, including interconnections. The third and final front is the construction of a more robust economic base for Europe, reducing its external dependence on critical areas such as semiconductors, raw materials, health, digital or food and food security and accelerating investment to which the European Council defines as guidance the need to design budgetary policies, and I quote « appropriate to investment needs and to the new geopolitical situation ». The work will continue with the formal meeting of the European Council on 24 and 25 March. I would also like to point out in four points the reading that Portugal makes of the conclusions of the Versailles Declaration adopted at the informal meeting of the European Council. The first point is that of our absolute adherence to this combination of firmness and prudence in the management of the current security crisis that Europe is experiencing. To achieve a negotiated and lasting political solution it is necessary to be cautious, but it is also necessary to be firm, not ambiguous and clear in the demands that we put to the aggressor, which is Russia. The second point concerns our logic of an immediate response and, as far as possible, coordinated at European level in view of the economic effects caused or empowered by the war, with effective measures in price containment, in the preservation of productive fabric and employment and in social protection, measures such as those already announced and prepared by the Portuguese Government. The third point concerns the joint, short- and medium-term European response, and we have the model of our response to the economic and social consequences of the COVID-19, which is the good model. It is a model of joint effort to mobilize the financial resources indispensable to defence investments, to reduce our energy dependence on the outside and to increase the resilience of our economy. Finally, if Mr President allows me to conclude, the last point is the need for a strategic vision, not repeating the 2010 errors, because it is not with « austerity » logics that we respond to the economic effects of the crisis, nor by repeating the 2014 errors, because unfortunately, between 2014 and 2022, Europe has increased its energy dependence on Russia. This with the obvious exception of Portugal, among others, which not only increased its ability to diversify energy sources as it, above all, increased its own capacity to produce renewable energies, thereby leading to the right path. In fact, according to the European Commission, this makes Portugal the closest country to meet the European energy targets by 2030. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u3	We will now enter the debate stage. For an intervention, Mr Luís Capoulas Santos has the floor by the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u4	Mr President, Mr Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: On 24 February 2022 it will certainly be marked in history as the end of an era in international relations which, with all the imperfections and the sad exception of the former Yugoslavia, guaranteed Europe almost 80 years of peace, prosperity, democracy and respect for human rights and the rule of law. It was precisely on 24 February that we, still unbelievable, discussed the unjustifiable Russian aggression against a sovereign country and member of the United Nations ( United Nations ). Since then, violating all the principles of the Charter of the United Nations, this barbaric aggression has grown in brutality, destroying lives and goods, destroying the economy and infrastructure and imposing unbearable suffering on millions of human beings, largely women, children and elderly, who were forced to err, within and outside their country, without destiny. However, with a dignity that earned everyone's respect and triggered a wave of never seen solidarity, we also witnessed the cry of revolt of an entire nation, which resulted in a brave wave of resistance to the invader, despite the gigantic disproportionate force. I have already had the opportunity to express our support and solidarity with the heroic Ukrainian people on 24th, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. At the last plenary meeting of the COSAC (Conference of Bodies Specializing in Community Affairs), which took place in Paris on 5 March, representing the Assembly of the Republic and seeking to faithfully interpret the spirit expressed by the overwhelming majority at the session on 24 February, I was also able to condemn without any consideration the Russian aggression and appeal to the immediate ceasefire and the opening of negotiations between the parties. Nothing, no historical, geo-strategic argument or anything else that some political actors or so-called opinion-makers have tried to invoke in order to whiten out the disgusting action of the Russian regime, can justify the barbarism to which we, impotently, have been watching for 20 long days and which will have disastrous direct consequences for Ukraine and indirect consequences for Europe and the world, some of which are already beginning to be felt among us. With regard to the European Council of 24 February and the informal Council of 11 and 12 March, which are the subject of our debate today, in addition to thanking us for the information Mr. Minister of State and Foreign Affairs has just given us, I would like to congratulate the Government, not only for its firm, responsible and cooperative conduct in the European front, but also for the way in which, internally, between sovereign bodies, both in the inter-party relationship and with civil society, has sought to express the general feeling of the Portuguese, whose generosity and solidarity were once again demonstrated. I would also like to leave a word of appreciation for the position revealed by the vast majority of the Portuguese political forces during this crisis. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group notes as very positive the rapid and effective reaction and the unity demonstrated by the European Union not only in the extension of sanctions — which are certainly not exhausted — applied to the aggressor and his main accomplice, but also in humanitarian and material support, including military, Ukraine and, above all, in the reception of refugees. Once again, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, I would like to stress the need to continue to carry out all diplomatic efforts towards a rapid ceasefire and support for all ongoing negotiations to find a lasting peace solution. I therefore ask you, Minister, the following questions: in view of the concrete situation we are facing, what immediate answers should the European Union still take to cushion the negative impacts on the most exposed sectors, such as energy and food? I know that the Minister made a general reference, but I would be grateful if he could be a little more detailed. In the face of the disturbing news, which I hope refers only to isolated cases, of possible acts of sexual violence against refugee women or trafficking in children, I would like you to be able to tell us whether the European Union is doing everything possible to prevent such acts, even though the main control mechanisms are obviously the responsibility of the transit and destination States. As I said at the beginning of my speech, no matter what happens in the near future, the world, and Europe in particular, will not be what it was 20 days ago. On the ruins of Ukraine, a new international order will emerge, which implies an urgent reflection on the Union's strategic priorities and, to my knowledge, this is the main course on the agenda of the next European Council, scheduled for 24 and 25 March. Mr Minister, given the current context, it will not be possible to conduct the usual pre-Council debate, I would like to know if you can forward something to us on the position of the Portuguese Government, in addition to the burning issues of energy and food already mentioned, particularly on the undisturbed issues of security and defence. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u5	You have the floor for an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u6	Mr President, Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Mrs and Mr. Members: Ukraine's military invasion is the largest historic earthquake in Europe since World War II. It is the most pungent proof of European security and stability, the greatest attempt to destroy its values, and also a blow to our consciences, insofar as no man and no woman can remain indifferent to the cruelty and devastation that comes to us from Kiev, Kharkiv, Dnipro, Donetsk, Mariupol and so many other cities in Ukraine. The day the Russian Federation's Armed Forces started attacking Ukraine on multiple fronts, our heart was also reached. Aggression and barbaric bombings have returned to Europe to satisfy the ambition of an isolated man, who sows fear around him and is the personification of evil. Thousands of people have already died and millions have lost their dreams, lost everything and escaped from the fire and suffering: young mothers, who have sheltered the designs of the projectiles when they should be welcoming their newborn son; children, who should be in school and who would wander for miles to escape the explosions; adults and elders, who have to cross a river through an improvised bridge net and who no longer want to know about the future, just want to jump over a period of time, from a hell that fell on them. It is a war disguised as a special military operation, driven by a false, defamatory and cruel narrative. It is the invasion of a sovereign and independent State, which sought to cement its democracy, and which comes against all the principles that guide political and peaceful coexistence between states and nations, in a gross violation of international law, the Charter of the United Nations, the Russian Constitution and, of course, the Ukrainian Constitution itself. Faced with the advance of the Russian war machine, Europe, the United Kingdom, the United States and the whole free world gave a concerted response. The European Commission has moved forward with package of sanctions which are historically unprecedented. We know, however, that antibiotics can produce serious side effects—in fact, Mr. Prime Minister even spoke about ricochet. At the energy level, a price escalation was expected and, in relation to fuels, it is not enough for the Prime Minister to say that he gives a credit for compensating the supply. It is necessary for the Government to keep the word and, if the priceing of the crude fires on unbearable values, then the Government has a duty to lower the ISP (charge on oil and energy products) in equal proportion. You don't have enough crumbs, crumbs or cents. More than that, I would like to remind this House that the problem of fuel prices is already before the war in Ukraine. The pandemic has left the track economy and the war in Ukraine will further melt the purchasing power of families, to which inflation, rising interest rates, energy and food costs are added. I ask, Minister: what plan does the government have? What are the solutions to taking care of these sacrifices that are falling upon all Portuguese? Does the Government intend to adjust the PRR funds ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ) to this path of energy crisis and change of sources of supply? Mr. Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Europe and the West could not limit themselves to watching the war on social networks or on television. Unfortunately, since the oil crises of the 1970s, the European Union has neglected its security in supply, and only in 2030 will it be released in all fossil fuels in Russia. Are we going to finance, for another seven and a half years, the Russian war machine with the purchase of gas? Oh, my God! If the pandemic has shown us the European Union's industrial fragility in front of China, this war exposes Europe's dependence on exports of fuels by Russia. Mr. Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, the war can be prolonged and, day after day, it can be even more terrible, and the worst sign of it is when the reports of conflict are trivialized. What if the worst is yet to come? How will the European Union and Portugal react if the Russian Armed Forces resort to chemical weapons or continuous, genocide, savage killing of civilians and military? Russia not only attacked Ukraine, it also attacked itself and, above all, attacked the Western world of humanist values. I welcome the initiative of the Prosecutor of the International Criminal Tribunal to open an investigation into Putin's actions. I welcome all European States and peoples who are being generous in welcoming refugees. Finally, I pay tribute to the Ukrainian people, to President Zelensky, to the Russian people — which should not be confused with their political elite — and to all those who are beating themselves, not only for ideals, but above all for our future. Glory to Ukraine! [[PSD and PS Deputy Luís Capoulas Santos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u7	I give the floor to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u8	Mr President, Mr Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: There were still bombs in the Balkans in memory, war in the former Yugoslavia, and again the war occupied the space of Europe. The invasion of Ukraine by Russia is a barbaric act that we must condemn unanimously and we must recognize, with the solidarity it deserves, the response of aid to the Ukrainian people, either in the defence of the integrity of their territory or in the defence of their dignity, which remains intact. I believe that we should turn from that recognition to actions and, from this point of view, what we have said from the outset—and we are already going into the fourth package in progress—is that sanctions can have a fundamental role in bridging Russian will on this path of the invasion of Ukraine, and we see that. In the past, we had no knowledge of demonstrations in the streets of Russia, but now we know them, not of acts of civil disobedience, which are also known, or of the discontent that sanctions are creating within the Russian regime, and with this we see a possibility of getting out of this conflict. I believe it is important to specify the weight of the sanctions and how they are the most effective weapon to make this Russian will, which is destroying Ukraine and which again brought war to European territory. From that point of view, the diplomatic route that these sanctions end is the most important way to achieve peace. As it is known, we have the view that it is not by the military escalation that peace is achieved, but rather becomes more dead. It is by diplomatic means that we can achieve a lasting and life-saving peace. in this way, the European Union can do more, it can be stronger in sanctions against Russia, it can be even smarter in these sanctions and open a diplomatic route. Perhaps you can even reach a peace conference that enables the belligerent Russian power to retreat and Ukraine to have its territory, its independence and its intact identity. This is therefore one of the first proposals that should be on the table and the European Union should have the strength to impose this diplomatic path. at this moment, we see a set of disputes from other powers to, on the basis of their neutrality, make the mediation of the conflict. Now, in our opinion — and this is the first point I wanted to talk to you about — it is important that the European Union should take the mediation of the conflict and put this peace conference on the table, ensuring a role that the European Union should not leave to others. The second point I wanted to highlight is the way sanctions are being implemented. There is a narrative that the sanctions are being directed towards the Russian oligarchy, but, in fact, this Russian oligarchy is still escaping some of the sanctions. The bombs to enter Ukraine were more determined than the implementation of sanctions and therefore many of the Russian oligarchs managed to escape with part of their fortunes to the offshore. Even within the European area, there is news that everything that could be done is not being done. We see — it is true! — in other European countries, jets to be confiscated, we see football clubs to be paralyzed, because they were held by Russian oligarchs, but in Portugal, having had more than 400 visasgold transferred to Russian millionaires and having, on this way, businesses worth more than 200 million euros, we do not know: first, the list of these Russian millionaires who are doing business in Portugal and who should have their goods confiscated or frozen; second, the size of these businesses; third, the transparency necessary for democracy to understand how the Portuguese Government is acting to implement the current sanctions. The last question that I leave to you, perhaps the most important, is this: how many are, who are, and what are the businesses that are currently frozen by the Portuguese Government's action? With other governments of the European Union acting, we do not believe that there are no Russian millionaires, Russian oligarchs, to act in Portugal, nor do we believe that the Portuguese Government is unaware of them.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u9	You have the floor for an intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The meetings of the European Council on the situation in Ukraine have confirmed and demonstrated the role the European Union has intended to play in this process. Essentially, the attitude of the European Union, with the support of the Portuguese Government, in view of what is happening in Eastern Europe is the continuation of the escalation of confrontation with more economic sanctions and more arms embargoes. The confrontation position that brought us here—for which we warned in 2014—should not be aggravated, but blocked. It is now being used to advance with old projects, heated for decades by the hawks of militarism: the colossal process of increasing military spending, the arms race, the reinforcement of NATO (North Atlantic Treaty Organization) and the militarization of the European Union, projects that are at the root of the worsening situation in Europe and in the world. [[IL and PSD Member Protests Afonso Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u11	Oh, that's the reason.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u12	by deciding these measures to deepen the political, economic and military confrontation, the European Union and the Portuguese Government are taking their important role in fueling the escalation of tension and conflict and are resigning from any contribution to a path of diplomacy and political solution to build peace. While we heard statements by the European Council on energy independence, we are left with the refining of closed Matosinhos and importing gas oil. As they cry out for — and they cry out! — economic sanctions favouring speculation and the gains of economic power, condemning the people, from the Portuguese people, to bear their costs, workers, populations, small businesses, small fishing and agriculture, are already facing a situation of enormous difficulty which will worsen further as this way continues. In this context, however, there is a decision of the European Union that has to be referred to and which has not been significantly so far.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u13	Well? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u14	It is particularly significant that censorship, which existed until 24 April 1974 in the Salazar and Caetano governments, is now returning to Portugal by a regulation of the European Union, prohibiting the broadcast of television channels. And it is no less significant that this decision of the European Union, which has deserved the condemnation of the European Federation of Journalists and which has democratically undermined the competence of the States and the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic to date remains without a word of condemnation or criticism of the PS Government. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the position of the CFP is, as has always been, dictated by the defence of peace and solidarity with the peoples who suffer the violence and the consequences of the war. We reiterate: the CFP does not support — and condemns! — the violation of the principles of the UN Charter and the Final Act of the Helsinki Conference, principles which the CFP has always defended and which, in consistency, continues to defend with the same conviction. The CFP calls for the mobilization and action for peace and not the escalation of war. The CFP calls for solidarity and humanitarian aid to populations, which cannot be confused with support for fascist and neo-Nazi groups. [[CH's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u15	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u16	I will finish, Mr. President. It is urgent to stop the policy of incitement to confrontation, which will only lead to the loss of more human lives and the greatest suffering, with dramatic consequences for the peoples. We must give peace a chance. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u17	To make an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u18	Mr President, Mr Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: Again, I am in this situation sui generis, because, technically, I am still a Member of Parliament and if I have a substantial duty to carry out my duties until the end, politically, things are what they are and neither I nor my party here will be when the election results become a new parliamentary composition. But that obviously did not stop me from performing the duties or defending until the end of what I believe in. On this subject, Mr Minister, and making this assessment, I would like to begin by telling you that, on my part, you are in agreement with the Portuguese Government's position on war in Ukraine, which is not in any way unanimous in Portugal, but is relatively consensual and majority. I would also like to tell you that we know, and that was visible, that what is happening in Ukraine is not just about Ukraine's sovereignty and freedom, but also about the sovereignty and freedom of the countries of Europe, particularly of Western Europe. Therefore, Minister, I have heard several Mrs. Members speak of the need to be supportive of Ukraine, but I would like to tell you that there are those who realize that Ukraine is also being supportive of us. It is, above all, Ukraine that is being in solidarity with us and leading this fight, which is a struggle for freedom and sovereignty. This position is not in any way consensual in this plenary, but it is also good for it to be stated. Those who say, as I have heard, that the reality of a country entering tanks and bombs in a neighbouring sovereign state must be answered by saying "it is necessary to open the door to diplomacy", which has arrived here, I would like to say that when we have tanks on one side, if we have only diplomacy on the other side and are not willing to resort to anything else, it is clear which side will be taken back, Mr President. I assure you it will not be the side that has tanks and bombs. This is what we should understand, because this is the most hypocritical way of looking at the side, saying: « No, no, we are all indignant. We condemn you so much! Let's start diplomatic conversations. If we are not willing to do more — and Portugal was willing to do more — things will hardly change. On this subject, Minister, I would also like to ask you a question, which is the main one, concerning the present and the future and which has to do with the current state. We have also heard that there have been collateral damage to sanctions, but, Minister, we all knew that there would be and I would not call them « collateral damage». Clearly, in a situation like this, it would not be possible to impose sanctions without us being also affected. And this "affected" is not a small effect, it is a great effect. From that point of view, I would like, without alarms, but with absolute truth—with absolute truth! — the Minister spoke of the effects of war on Europe and also on Portugal. With regard to a key point, which has to do with food and agriculture, which is a systematically forgotten sector, I would like to know what the European response is because what your Government says is that, as a first step, it will do, and I quote, 'the monitoring of supply and the level of cereal stocks for human and animal feed'. Mr Minister, or things are changing rapidly in the next few days, and the government is concerned about the production or fear that we have serious problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u19	For an intervention by the PAN Parliamentary Group, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u20	Mr President, Mr Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: Once again, we cannot but repudiate the war in Ukraine, provoked by Russia, and to express all our solidarity with the Ukrainian people and with all the people who are being affected by this war, including the Russian people, which opposes the dictatorship of Putin and an act that is absolutely devoid of an attack on the sovereignty and democracy of another State. Interestingly, I have to say that the NAP can differ — and much — from the CDS, but in this regard it could not fail to follow what Mrs Cecilia Meireles has just mentioned, because, in fact, Ukraine is doing a service to the whole of Europe by keeping itself resilient and by blocking the Russian investment, and we have to ask ourselves whether we are doing everything we should. Mr Minister, there are some questions we would like to leave you. Question: What can we do more, not only from the point of view of sanctions, but above all from the point of view of support for the Ukrainian people, in particular with regard to the renegotiation of Ukraine's debt to the various Member States of the European Union and the IMF itself? We speak of EUR 462 million in debt only to Portugal, and in the case of the IMF, we speak of a value that would pay nearly EUR 17 million in average pensions in Ukraine. in this sense, Minister, we would like to know whether Portugal is available to open a debate in the European Council so that the debt of the Ukrainian people is renegotiated, as we have seen in West Germany in 1953. This would make it possible to alleviate the costs that the State and the Ukrainian people will have with the reconstruction of their country, with health, with their own national defence, which, as has already been said, is undoubtedly a public service which is being provided to Europe. Today it is with Ukraine, tomorrow it will be with all of us, because Putin will not stay here. The second question concerns the tax revenue associated with solidarity for Ukraine and the Ukrainian refugees. Currently, for each money transfer made to Ukraine or to support refugees in Poland, Romania or Moldova, public coffers collect 4 % of the seal tax revenue and each solidarity call for a Ukraine support telephone line is worth the State 23 % VAT (value added tax ). I ask you, Minister: are we going to keep this recipe in the Portuguese safes or are we going to channel it to solidarity with this people? It just seems to us that the opposite would be manifestly immoral. On humanitarian issues, Mr Minister, I reiterate the question put by the Socialist Party. With regard to the violations of Ukrainian women and also the attacks on children, which are taking place and which are being denounced, from the point of view of the humanitarian corridors, what is being done and thought of in the European Council to prevent this real scourge? Finally, I would like you to inform us about the entry of pets into the Portuguese State.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u21	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u22	I really am concluding, Mr. President. DGAV ( Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary) was unclear in the measures announced and the Ukrainian people moving to our country are being forced to have the animals vaccinated, “chipped” and identified electronically. When we are faced with a humanitarian issue, it would be important for the bureaucracy to stand aside and allow these people with pets to enter our territory.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u23	Mr Mariana Silva has the floor for an intervention, Mr Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens express their solidarity with the victims of this conflict and, honoring their peaceful genesis, condemn Russia's belligerent action against Ukraine, as they have condemned and condemned all wars. It is urgent that all parties seek diplomatic solutions. A world of peace is only possible with policies for disarmament, denuclearization, the negotiated solution of conflicts and respect for human rights and freedoms. All parties must take a path to promoting peace and seeking diplomatic solutions under the aegis of the UN for the crisis in the region. The Portuguese Government must also act in such a way as to promote the end of the escalation of confrontation, the negotiated solution of international conflicts, peace and disarmament, in line with the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. I ask you, Minister: what have the Portuguese Government and the European Union done in this regard? Deciding to acquire more than 500 million euros in arms is not to make the way for peace.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u25	Don't you? Oh, my God! Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u26	On the contrary, it is to insist on the way to war. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as in all conflicts, we refuse partial views, we refuse the subjectivity and instrumentalization of peoples. This problem has not begun now, is deeper and goes beyond the East of Europe. The role of NATO, the US and the European Union in destabilizing the region over the years cannot be ignored. In other words, it is possible to condemn the effects and also their causes. This war calls for us to reflect on a number of topics. The European Parliament says it wants to end the visasgolds and the PS Members voted in favour of this document, but only four months ago the PS joined the right in this Parliament to reject a Greens proposal proposing exactly the end of the golden visas.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u27	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u28	In other words, the PS has a position against the Portuguese Parliament and a position in favour of the European Parliament. How does Mr Minister explain this duality of criteria? Finally, we want to say that the European Union is very good at opening the doors to Ukrainian refugees. Question: Does this availability mean a change in the policy of the Union? From here we will not allow any more children, no more Alan Kurdi, to die on any beach of the Mediterranean Sea? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u29	You have the floor, Mr Ventura, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u30	Mr President, Minister : On those who in this Parliament believe that we must respond to attacks on the bomb with flowers or a subservient diplomacy, or on those who think that those responsible are us, NATO, the United States or Europe, we are well: they will be stuck instead of history, from which they left in 1989 and where they had already gone in 1917. It will always be that way, but that is not what I want to talk to you about today. I want to tell you what matters to the Portuguese. Mr Prime Minister has said that fuel prices do not fall much because of European rules. In Luxembourg, the price of gas oil fell 0, 417 € and in Poland VAT increased from 23 % to 8 % — from 0 % in food. Since the Prime Minister wants to do something in Europe, it would be necessary for Europe at this difficult time to lower the VAT on fuels so that thousands of families and businesses can actually live with some financial deficit. It is already a little painful to see Mr. Prime Minister say, every day, 'the fault of Europe, the fault of Europe!' », when you only have one solution: effectively download the ISP and allow the reduction of VAT on fuels, to relieve Portuguese families. Finally, Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister, because it is probably the last time we see him here before the government takes office — something the whole country is talking about, but he refuses to talk about. Are you leaving the position of Minister for Foreign Affairs or not? We are at a time when the face of Portuguese diplomacy is Mr. Minister. How can you at this difficult time think of sitting in the chair where Dr. Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues is and running away from his responsibilities as Foreign Minister? at this moment, perhaps it would be good if you answered the Portuguese: will you, or will you not, be Minister of Foreign Affairs in the next government? And don't say you don't know...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u31	Mr. Deputies, you've run out of time. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u32	I will finish, Mr. President. There is no one in this country, particularly in this Parliament, who believes that you do not know whether or not you are going to be a Foreign Minister in the next government.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u33	We know who won't be! Who will, you don't know... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u34	It's very funny!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u35	For an intervention by the Liberal Initiative, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u36	Mr President, Mr Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members :In the wake of the informal Council of 10 and 11 this month and in anticipation of what the Council of 24 and 25 will be like, above all, I would like to focus on the impact that the Versailles Declaration and what it will be decided on 24 shall have on Portugal. First, on sanctions, it is known that France will present a tightening of sanctions at the next European Council. I wonder if Portugal already knows which of these components of the packages will, or will not, approve and whether there is a way of calculating the impacts these sanctions have on the Portuguese economy in our country. Defending freedoms naturally has a cost, but that does not mean that the cost has to be a mystery. Then I would like to repeat a question already asked: what is the exact situation of Russian citizens who are target of sanctions in Portugal? How many have been identified and what measures have already been taken regarding them? I have a parenthesis here to ask whether, by now — and this does not necessarily fall under its handle — the Portuguese Government will review the form of nationality for the Jews of Sephardic origin. The second set of issues relates to chapter II of the Versailles Declaration on the reduction of energy dependence. Point 16 ( e) specifically refers to the interconnection of European gas and electricity networks, which has long been discussed and which has always stood in opposition to France. Question : Will this time be possible to overcome this objection? What is the Portuguese Government's position on the disparate agreements between Algeria, Morocco and Spain on the pipeline in North Africa? And what importance does the Government attach to the port of Sines as regards the entry of liquefied natural gas into Europe? Finally, since the Versailles Declaration also speaks of the investment in defence, which all Member States have agreed on, in particular, the commitments made by the Portuguese State in that regard? Mr President, allow me just one word to Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u37	You have already exceeded your time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u38	Mr President, we are already making a deal: we are again allowing the issue of Russian channels in Europe and you are calling Mr Putin to get him out of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u39	It's better to fall into grace than to be funny!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u40	To close the debate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I call on the Minister of State and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for all the questions raised. I will respond to those of my competence, organizing the answers by subjects in order to respect the time that is assigned to me. The first issue concerns measures which, both in the European context and in the national context, are already being taken to counter the negative effects of the war on Ukraine on the economy and society, in particular those measures that seek to respond to the first, more visible effects, which are the inflationary effects, mainly due to rising energy prices. As you know, Portugal is in a relatively protected position, because of European countries, we are of the least vulnerable to Russia in terms of energy supply. Russia is worth a residual proportion of the imports of gas and oil from Portugal, in addition to our price system, in particular in the field of electricity, and the fact that 60 % of the country's electricity consumption is already made on the basis of renewable energy constitutes additional protection. In any case, we are indirect victims because of the pressure that rising prices in energy, along with difficulties in obtaining raw materials and food products, causes the price cascade of basic goods. The measures that have already been announced respond to the concerns expressed by Mr Luís Capoulas Santos and Mrs Isabel Meireles. Let me remind you that these measures concern five simultaneous fronts: firstly, the formal request for authorisation to the European Commission for the reduction of VAT on fuels; secondly, the reduction we can make by ourselves of the tax on petroleum products; thirdly, the very important measure known as ‘AUTOvoucher’; fourthly, specific support for platforms and transport operators; and fifthly, very important measures aimed at agriculture to reduce the costs that agricultural producers have with energy. The same applies to food safety. Portugal is not, unlike other countries, very dependent on Ukraine and Russia, which, in a sense, are two of the most important celeros in the world. Once again, a first package of support for our agriculture was presented yesterday, which, contrary to what Mrs Cecilia Meireles seems to think, is not to monitor or monitor developments. There is even the mobilisation of several hundred million euros from the State budget to allow farmers to accelerate compensation, including those due under the common agricultural policy. More work is being done and, of course, the European Council of 24 and 25 March will give very important guidance in this area of the European-wide coordinated response to the profoundly negative effects of changing the geopolitical situation, the uncertainty it introduces in the economy and the direct effects of war on our societies. Mr Luís Capoulas Santos referred to the preparation of this Council and, at the next Conference of Leaders, as usual and, I think, healthy, the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs will ask for a preparatory debate in the Standing Committee before the Council takes place. Secondly, our support for Ukraine has a very important humanitarian dimension, which in turn also has a very important dimension of support for Ukrainian refugees. Portugal has fought nationally and at European level to ensure that this support for refugees is carried out without discrimination and fully respecting the rights of people. We drew the attention of the Ukrainian embassy that we did not accept that two Afro-descendant Portuguese could be treated, on the border between Ukraine and Poland, differently from other Portuguese, and, fortunately, within six hours this question could be resolved, and we should thank the Ambassador for her willingness to respond to this warning. In the resolution we adopted in the Council of Ministers, we also made it clear that, when we talk about Ukrainian refugees, we speak of: Ukrainian nationals; third country nationals residing in Ukraine; third country nationals not resident in Ukraine, but who have been blocked in Ukraine by war; and stateless persons. It is to all of them that our humanitarian action is aimed at, and, of course, the fight against trafficking, violence and sexual abuse is an unthinkable part of the heart of this humanitarian action. The third issue is on sanctions, which have always been approved with support and under Portuguese proposal. This has happened and will continue to happen, because, of course and unfortunately, developments on the ground have been negative and therefore measures against the aggressor have to be intensified. They are sanctions directed at the Russia Power Circle, aimed at strategic sectors of the Russian economy and particularly directed towards reducing the means of financing the war that Russia still has at its disposal. These sanctions are supported by Portugal and are scrupulously complied with by the Portuguese authorities from the moment they are decided. This has happened, whether the sanctioned are candidates for residence permits for investment, whether they are Portuguese nationals. Whenever sanctions are sanctioned, they are applied, not because they are rich, but because they are associated with the decisions of which war resulted and therefore resulted in deaths and massacres. Finally, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know any militarization of the European Union, I do not see that the European Union has ever taken any offensive action in the military field, no matter who it is, and it needs to be very clear about this. Of course, we are also supporting Ukraine with military material, because when the bombs of Russian artillery deliberately go to hospitals and maternity, those who defend themselves—and they have the right to defend themselves! — they have to have weapons to defend themselves and it is also our obligation to support them. [[PS, PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u42	We have thus reached the end of the first item on the agenda of this Standing Committee meeting. Thank you to the ladies. Members of the Government here present and to the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. We will enter the second point, which consists of the debate with the participation of the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action on the price of fuels. Before we proceed, I should like to inform myself that the quorum verification system for voting purposes is open, so I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Members to register. To open the debate, I have the floor of Mr. Minister for Environment and Climate Action, which I take advantage of to salute efutically.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is a war in Europe, being the invading country, Russia, a great energy producer. Before this war there was already an energy crisis caused by market disruptions that are the consequence of the pandemic. Our country has reached 34 % of the incorporation of renewables in the overall energy consumption last year, but our dependence on the outside has decreased by 8, 4 %, is still 65, 8 % — 2020 data. As you all know, the price of oil and gas that Portugal imports is fixed on international markets, we have no role in determining that price, and, as you know, the price of gas impacts on electricity. The challenges we face are several. First, that of availability, where there are no constraints. The natural gas has arrived as planned, we have the reserves three-quarters and there was still a discharge yesterday. from Russia last year we imported about 10 % of the gas we consumed. this year, the forecast is that it is less and there has been no difficulty finding alternative markets. As far as road fuels are concerned, we have public reserves for three months, to which the operators are added. In the production of electricity, and even with the rain of the last days, we did not anticipate difficulties. The last month's import was made within the Iberian market—which, as you know, is unique— happened for price reasons, cheaper, and destined to protect the water availability of dams, since our combined cycle plants, the gas, could even have produced more, but that would have raised the price. In short, in relation to availability there are no foreseeable constraints, but the same cannot be said in relation to the price. This is volatile, increasing and increasing from already high levels. Let's start with electricity. In Portugal, in 2021, the overall increase in electricity was approximately 10 %. As you know, for domestic consumers this value was much lower, and therefore the heavy increase in industry in particular. And if it wasn't much higher — I remember that the price of production has increased by six — it was because we used the right pillows to reduce the rate of access to networks. It is worth comparing the average electricity price change: in the euro area it was almost 30 %; in Spain it was 34 %; in Belgium and in the Netherlands it exceeded 50 %. The much more positive situation in our country has happened, I repeat, because the government has acted at the right time, and it has been able to do so because 60% of the electricity we consume already comes from renewable sources. Even last year, in the face of an increase in the price of oil in international markets, we acted with the creation of the « AUTOvoucher », with the support of taxis and buses, in order to ensure the continuity of transport services, and with the reduction of the ISP, by reverse symmetry to the only extra tax revenue that the State receives with the rise of the price of fuels, that of VAT. Thus, the VAT revenue was returned with the reduction of the ISP. And then the war came. Russia brutally invaded Ukraine in a cowardly gesture. I know that not all Members in this Parliament agree with this statement, but for me that is the case! With the invasion, gas and oil prices have risen, even more so because Russia is a great producer of these goods, such as a large coal producer. So even those who call for the opening of the power stations to coal are strange. They can only have one reason: they think electricity is cheap. And we do, as I shall explain, to help businesses, transport and families minimize price increases. Make it clear, and I don't paint you a world of water: the increases are expressive and we'll all pay them. Our role will always be that, never losing the path of the wager on renewables, contribute to maintaining the productive apparatus intact and supporting those who are more fragile or suffer a greater impact. With regard to electricity, an increase that cannot be more than 3 % on the regulated market can be expected, and I recall again that the original price has increased 600 %, we will place the extra revenue from the Environmental Fund, EUR 150 million — the office has been published today — in reducing the rate of access to networks benefiting industry. Who conducts this process is the ERSE ( Regulatory Energy Services Entity ), but we believe it will be carried out shortly. Thinking of the most deprived families, those who benefit from the social energy tariff, which I remember are about 800 000, we created a direct support of 10 € per gas shop, which we are operating through the CTT ( Correios de Portugal ). Thinking about families, the value of the "AUTovoucher" increased from 5 € to 20 € per month. For passenger transport, we extended the mechanism already existing in support of the Environmental Fund now to 30 cents per litre, there were 10 cents per litre, either for taxis or for buses, in support that will reach EUR 25 million. For all families and businesses, the ISP reduction has been extended to the exact measure of the increase in VAT, and is now per litre of fuel and easier to measure and correct every week. The news that it no longer seems profitable to supply in Spain has certainly seen this weekend, with the price of oil at similar prices in the two peninsula countries. In the fuel sector, it was announced yesterday, by my colleague in the economy, that it will be extended to companies providing transport services on behalf of others the 30 cents per litre discount, whether they are passengers or goods. For heavy freight transport, which already benefits from traditional gas oil, my infrastructure colleague will find the best solutions that will soon become public. The Portuguese Government has also proposed the temporary reduction of VAT on energy, extended to all its forms and uses. In the gas, and especially in its use by industry, lies the most complex problem. There is already a credit line of EUR 400 million, but there must be direct support such as the one Brussels is drawing, bypassing the limitation of State aid. The proposal on the table is fair in the objectives, but it is short in the size of the support. Subsidies 30 % of the cost differential with gas at a limit of EUR 2 million for sectors that do not use gas intensively and 50 % of the same differential up to EUR 15 million per enterprise for intensive users. Who pays? It is each State, each country and if the values are not changed, the account for Portugal will be around 380 million direct support to companies. Let us return to electricity: considering that the price fixing model is marginalist, the wholesale electricity market is strongly pressured by the price of natural gas, which record maximum prices and never seen. It is necessary to draw up a safeguard mechanism on the electricity market for harmful and irreversible effects. The proposal we are currently negotiating with Spain is as follows: a maximum price of € 180 / MWh is imposed on the electricity spot market. The cycle plants combined with natural gas at variable cost proven above this value will receive the cost differential. The overcost of natural gas will be paid either by a European common fund or, if it is by national funding, by means of the SEN tariff debt (National Electric System) — there is no other way. All renewables that offer at their variable cost, continue to do so, except for water plants with storage, because we are in a dry hydrological year. With this proposal on a Iberian scale, we would start paying an invoice of about €3500 million per month compared with the current scenario of €9200 million per month. In other words, it would result in a net monthly joint savings distributed between Portugal and Spain of EUR 5700 million for a gas surplus which compensates for EUR 1250 million. The net monthly Portuguese savings would be around EUR 1100 million. With this proposal, are we generating a deficit? Yes, but this is much smaller than saving, and if it is for months, it will be worth it. We will fight for Brussels to go beyond the generality tool kit and accompany us in this proposal, but I warn you: there are many opponents to this model among European countries. A brief end to talk about the future: in the last year, solar power plants that represent 700 MW power have entered into operation. This year will be 1200 MW and already in the first half, half, will be 600 MW. Together, we are talking about three clean energy pego plants without emissions and no imports. By the end of next year, there will be an increase of 500 MW through the national wind system's refuelling. The approval list of DGEG(Directorate-General for Energy and Geology) is about 2, 5 GW on a pipeline for approval for the solar. So let's actually anticipate the goals and achieve, in 2026, what we just expected to reach in 2030. The war, the brutal aggression of Ukraine by Russia, causing death and destruction, has shown that Europe has been embalmed in an energy risk without justification. Portugal and Sines want and can be the Atlantic gateway of energy to Europe, investing in infrastructures designed for renewable gases that will serve for the time being natural gas transport. We also want to take advantage of the floating solar auction experience(we have 12 competitors for 7 lots) and do the same in the sea, but now with the wind. If we are talking about powers between the 2 GW and the 5 GW, it will no longer be on earth that we will achieve them, and it remains, in anticipation of the coming legislation, a great wind auction for the Portuguese sea. Thank you very much. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u44	We shall enter the stage of debate, which is precisely what you have to say, in order to speak and ask questions, Mr Afonso Oliveira, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u45	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Mr Minister, I heard your initial speech and I was concerned because I think your speech was not for this debate. He spoke so much in savings that I was almost willing to leave the debate and leave because his speech was not for this debate today. I didn't realize what savings I was talking about, but let's go to the debate and we'll have to understand. In February 2016, Minister, the Socialist Government increased the tax on petroleum products with the promise to lower that tax in proportion to the increase in VAT revenue. And what did the socialist government do with this promise? Nothing! You didn't do anything, Minister! You didn't keep your promise! Dr. António Costa did not fulfill what he promised the Portuguese and, while affirming the end of austerity — that we have also heard many times! — I charged more taxes on fuels. The Socialist Government is responsible for the brutal tax burden on fuels! I repeat: the Socialist Government is responsible for the brutal tax burden on fuels! There is no other way of saying, the government has always taken advantage of the increase in the price of crude oil on international markets to increase the revenue on fuels, and the fact is that the government's accounts are making money with the increase in the price of oil. The State budget is feeding on the difficulties of the Portuguese! in such an important matter for the lives of Portuguese, in which the available income of families is much lower when it fills a fuel tank, what has the government done so far? What did you do until a few days ago? He swung to the side and was leaving families and businesses in a truly unsustainable situation! Unsustainable, Minister! Why? Because your choice, the choice of António Costa, the choice of the government has always been to add more taxes and never create real solutions that would reduce the tax burden on the Portuguese. This was a clear option of the Socialist Government over six years, a government which, unfortunately, for the lives of Portuguese, will continue with the same recipe. That is what we expect from the next government of absolute certainty. Let us look at the example of the evolution of VAT on road fuels: in 2021, the total VAT volume of road fuels — petrol, petrol 95 and 98 — reached EUR 1400 million. In 2020 the VAT on road fuels was EUR 1159 million. The Treasury here has gained EUR 242 million and here it is even more important to realize that, of these EUR 242 million, EUR 171 million is the effect of the increase in VAT revenue and nothing has to do with the amount of fuel sold. The tax effect on the final price is very clear then! This was the policy of the Socialist Government during the six years, Minister. There is a conclusion that we have all drawn for a long time: tax policy in Portugal has increased the final price beyond the rise in the price of oil in international markets! It is not a neutral fiscal policy, it has never been, it is a tax policy to aggravate the lives of Portuguese people and increase the tax burden on people. This clearly means that the tax policy of the Socialist Government in Portugal has increased the price of fuels and has allowed the government more revenue for the State. As we have always said and reaffirmed, Minister, there is a political choice here. The Government considers that, despite the brutal rise in the price of oil, it makes sense to put more taxes on those who were there. This was the policy they followed, it is not worth coming now, in an exceptional circumstance, such as the one we are living in, to spread the essence of the government's fiscal policy over six years. It is also true that today we are suffering an increase in the price of fuels that is now being borne in the crisis caused by the invasion of Ukraine by Russia of Putin. That is true, but today we are also talking about the political choices of the government that have made the lives of Portuguese people worse. More than half of the price of gasoline and gasoline are taxed. This is also a truth we all know. The PSD always defended that the government would fulfill its promise to reduce the ISP when the price of oil rose as promised by the socialist government. What did the government do? Nothing, strictly nothing! The PSD, responsibly, argues that the State cannot be the major beneficiary of the increase in the price of fuels as it has happened. The State cannot be that beneficiary, Minister. What government has the aim of bringing more taxes into line with the difficulties of the Portuguese? How can we have a government — fortunately this one will end, but another looks like it is an unhappy thing! — that, in the face of a galloping increase in the price of petrol and diesel, there have been no solutions over the years to reduce the cost that Portuguese pay when they have to supply cars? Mr Minister for the Environment, do you think that the measures announced yesterday and the measures now referred to have immediate effect on the Portuguese stock exchanges? Do they have positive effects that clearly improve people’s lives and will even prevent a confidation on people’s income here? And it is not worth the effort, from now on, to refer to the 2 or 3 cents reduction, with increases of 14 cents per litre at a time. It is clear that the government has not opted for a reduction in the tax burden on fuels and is now facing solutions that do not solve people's lives. That answer does not solve anything to anyone, we know that the government is very good at ads, but the problem is the effects of advertisements! Let us make it very clear, Minister, that we are aware that Portugal has no way of controlling the prices of oil forming on the international market. It's a fact, it's true! The main instrument that the Government has at its disposal to influence the final price of fuels is taxation. There are others, but this is the fundamental instrument that can affect everyone who uses fuel, gas and gas: companies, private, people, families. Taxation on fuels has been used to increase government revenues. The Government now announces that it will reduce the ISP to the value of the extraordinary increase in VAT, i.e. where VAT increases in an extraordinary way in relation to circumstances there will be a reduction in the ISP in that proportion. That's what the government says. To reduce the value of the ISP based on the value of the extraordinary increase in VAT should not be from the current price, but rather from the average price of 2021 and this makes all the difference. Doing this from the peak price means that the reduction in the ISP is very low, it is very low. Therefore, or it is done on an average value of 2021 or the effect is very low. Again, it is a very skilful way not to return the due to people, in the face of exceptional circumstances that we are all living. Mr President of the PSD spoke very recently on this issue and suggested to the Government that it should be so, so I ask the Minister whether or not he is available for this reduction in the ISP to be made on this assumption and not on the basis of the peak of the price of fuel as it is at this time. This measure would be a way of having a real effect on the Portuguese pocket. I wonder if he is available for this, or if, on the contrary, he will focus on advertisements and worry little about the Portuguese. It is that the Government has an obligation to work for the Portuguese and not to take it into account. Mr. Minister, if I may, I shall make another note. For these days, there was also talk in the newspapers that Portugal is 6. the country with the highest tax burden on gasoline — is reported in all newspapers in the last few days. Portugal is among the countries where a deposit of 50 l of petrol or diesel represents greater effort towards the country's average net salary: 8 % of the salary. In the richest countries of the European Union, even at higher prices in fuels, the rate of effort is only 4 %, which represents half that of Portugal. Here we see the effort that Portugal has to make. These indicators, where it is seen that the effort in the Portuguese wage is twice as high as other European countries, should not cause a campaign to be played on the government, when what is really going on is to feed the state's revenues with more taxes? Mr Minister, I leave these questions here, keeping another 50 seconds to the end. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Fernando Negrão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u46	I would like to congratulate the Members and the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, as well as the honourable Members. Members of the Government. By continuing to the work of this meeting of the Standing Committee, I give the floor to the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u47	Mr President, Mr Afonso Oliveira, there comes a better government and there comes a better government from what this government has done and also from the total void of VV proposals. Ex. and who stared at them. [[Protests by PSD Member Afonso Oliveira.]] So there comes a better government, which is our responsibility and which we are proud of. If you think you have no responsibility, you may not have learned much and have to sit on that side for a long time. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr, it has even been fully reverted to petrol and partly to gas oil, the increase of the 2016 ISP. And who gave me this information was who you would like me to be here, who is my finance colleague. It is with my finance colleague that you certainly want to discuss taxation, not with me. [[Protests by PSD Members Afonso Oliveira and PCP Duarte Alves.]] Mr President, what has caused the fuel to increase still comes from the VV government. For example, if you want my opinion, it comes well with the creation of the carbon rate. I repeat, it comes very well, indeed, I am even in favour of what was the carbon rate created on the margins of the CEL ( European Trade in Emission Licences) auctions in the VV Government. Ex., he was, at the time, Minister of the Environment, Jorge Moreira da Silva. That's where the root of that increase is. And, I tell you, I think very well that she was created and that she was. Mr President, I will already tell you what the ISP reduction accounts are, but you know that one of the measures that has been taken — and it is the most expensive thing for me — is that we have completely stopped making carbon-rate increases. And how she would have increased! It is that, respecting the law that comes from VV time. Ex.as — well, I repeat it without a hint of irony! — this rate is indexed to the value of the CEL auctions. Last year, the average price of the tonne of CO2 was around €45 and, at the beginning of the year, it has already exceeded €85. See what would have happened if we had blindly applied the rules we inherited from VV. Ex! It is also true, Mr President, as you know — and we are acting there, but it has nothing to do with the price of fuels — that we have done too badly with regard to what were the perverse tax benefits, with which VV. They have always lived very well, such as the production of electricity from coal. Mr President, the ISP, in the case of petrol—and I can also give the figures for gas oil—is a little more than 50 % of the cost, it is true, but in the case of gas oil, it is inverse. Thus, the ISP, until October last year, was €526 per 1000 l, in January 2022, it became €506 per 1000 l and, since this week, it is €489 per 1000 l. That is, the ISP has come down. And you've come down, why? Because, at an increasing price of the liter of gasoline or gasoline, VAT is actually higher and that is what we are now returning. And that is absolutely measurable and, above all, it will be measurable this second week. As you know, the State does not fix the price of the liter of gas oil or gasoline. It is not fixed, nor does it want to fix, because with this it could drag the gas tankers — with all respect! — for this reference value and thus increase prices. Therefore, the true price we have, I fear it on Tuesday at the end of the day, which is the value that the DGEG computes for the previous week. Now, quite clearly, what we are going to do is the following: all VAT that is received more, in each litre — I repeat, in each litre — will be discounted, at ISP headquarters. And why is this formulation of being based on ISP? Because, as you know, to move to VAT, there must be an authorization from Brussels and because, as you also know, moving in a general way in taxes is a competence, and well, of this House. But the value of the ISP is fixed by door and therefore it is there—and only there—that, with a weekly frequency, we can move. Mr President, the price of gas oil and gasoline has increased because the price of oil is rising. you do not have the slightest doubt. The tax burden is the one that was and the value of the ISP, contrary to what is said much, is a fixed value, completely independent of the price, either at 1 € or at 2 €. What the State charges per litre is objective — it won't disagree with me! Although there are many people who say different on television, the value per litre is strictly and always the same. The value of the clear VAT that varies and, because it varies and the State does not even want to have more revenue, in any situation it wants to have more revenue, what the State does is to discount the value of the VAT within ISP. But there have been many, Mr President, the support that has been given beyond this. Passing from 5 € to 20 € on "AUTOVoucher" is not an irrelevant one. Stop paying 10 cents per litre, which was already a good support, for taxis and for collective transport, and start paying 30 cents per litre and to the head, it is 25 million euros, which even have an expression for those who receive it. Thus, each taxi can receive, on the head and without anyone asking you any questions, €342, and each bus can receive, on the head and also without anyone asking you any questions, except obviously requiring insurance and day inspections, €1890, every three months. It is with measures like these and those announced yesterday that we are trying to establish some justice and try to minimize these impacts. The price of oil, fortunately, has fallen and in these last days has fallen with some meaning. The oil barrel, on 8th, was at 127 dollars, yesterday, closed at 106 dollars, today, until it was—I don't know what the value is at this time! — marketed at less than $100, which is a sign of some market stability. However, Mr President, you will never hear us talk about the price of oil, because none of us will ever be able to anticipate, anticipate or project. We want to believe that, by this way, the price of petrol and gasoline may, at the very least, stop rising. However, Mr President, what I really liked to see is that this is a matter in which Portugal has done much more than other European countries, in particular, has done more than its neighbouring Spain. And that's the only way to explain that going next to supply has ceased to make sense to the Portuguese. And, attention, one can never compare one to one, because the price of electricity in Spain is more expensive than in Portugal! Some people on television say no, but it is indeed more expensive than in Portugal, all statistics show it. Therefore, the price of energy should be compared with the price of energy rather than segmented. But, as I said, in the last weekend, it has not made sense for the Portuguese to go to Spain to supply their cars, because the price of diesel is equal and the price of gasoline, being slightly cheaper on the side there, does not compensate for the trip. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u48	Mr Afonso Oliveira, from the PSD, wishes to waste his time. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u49	Mr President, Minister, besides speaking in savings, have I now said that the fault for the increase in the price of the fuel is from Passos Coelho? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u50	I'll try to explain, but you don't understand anything I say!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u51	It is difficult to hear that at the beginning of your intervention. That's what I heard, that's what everyone heard! So I think it's very strange. We are living dramatic moments in Europe with a war. We are living at a dramatic time when people have to work every day and cannot afford the price of fuel. And Mr. Minister comes here with explanations of this nature! Is that what you're talking about? It is perfectly unbelievable and unacceptable! If I may give advice, Mr Minister, I think it would be preferable not to answer tax questions rather than give the answers you are giving because they are very strange. Our hope is that this can be your last debate! It is a hope that we all have here and that can happen, because there will be a mandatory remodeling of the government, with the takeover of the new government, so that can happen. Mr Minister, it is completely inconceivable when you come to explain savings and market behaviour, not to realize that what is at issue today is the unsustainable price of fuel. Therefore, there was a need for a clear response from the Government as to how this will affect people's lives.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u52	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u53	I'm done now, Mr. President. I asked a specific question to which the Minister did not answer. The question is very simple and this is: will the ISP fall, caused by the increase in VAT, be based on the current price of oil or on the average price of 2021? This is substantially different and directly affects people's lives. It is a central issue, which I would like you to answer. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u54	To reply, Mr President, the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u55	Mr President, Mr Afonso Oliveira, having known him a few years ago, I have no doubt that you did not understand what I said, simply because you did not want to,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u56	I got it!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u57	...he didn't want it, he wasn't there, he saw that he had no argument, and he wanted to ask the question that way. It's obvious you've understood! It was perfectly understood that in a 10-minute speech, I used the word'savance' only once in relation to a proposal that we want to make for the electricity spot market, which had nothing to do with the question you put. I said that the leap that existed in fuels, in terms of prices, existed for a fair measure and with which I agree with VV. For example, I can't, by the way, but with whom, at the time, in his party, he made decisions on this matter. This measure was the creation of a carbon rate for fuels. That's what I said. I didn't accuse anyone of anything. V. Ex.a has the Jewish-Christian complex very much to the flower of the skin, there feels the guilt, but I have no fault of it! [[Protests by PSD Member Afonso Oliveira.]] Regarding the reduction of ISP, it is clear and has been duly explained, i.e. what is the recipe per litre, which is natural in VAT according to the higher selling price of that same litre, is discounted directly in the ISP. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u58	To put a first question, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u59	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Mr President, the facts show that the prices of fuels were already rising on the international market before the war, as a result of the market disruptions that were identified here in their first intervention. This dynamic, which had already come from behind, has worsened with the war created in Ukraine by Russia. In fact, the war Russia created, by invading Ukraine, has aggravated this dynamic and it obviously has effects on the cost of living, the cost of essential goods, the cost of services and is affecting the Portuguese economy and the world economy. But it is also true — and this is demonstrable by fact — that there are a number of international oil companies that have come to present exorbitant profits that justify the increase in the price of fuels. As I said, these market disruptions that had been operated by these companies to have abusive profits had already come before the war, but it is also true that the dynamics that the war has installed, of price increases, are being used by these companies to have additional profits. And I'm not going to the moral issue,
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u60	You better not go!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u61	...because, to me, it is absolutely immoral this use of war by these companies to have these millionaire profits. I am not going to that question, because the law does not deal with morality and a government must not act morally before realities, but must act on principles such as justice or legality. Therefore, when we see, in the specific case of Galp, a profit presentation far beyond what was presented in previous years, at a time when the fuels are more expensive, and a distribution of dividends to shareholders to then be invested again in the purchase of shares in a buyback process, using, in practice, this good dynamic of the company to, as a result of a speculative economic circumstance, reinforce its shareholding position within the social position, I ask you whether, in view of this reality, the Minister has already equationed using that legislative instrument, which the Government proposed to the Assembly and the Assembly, gave the Government, to limit the margins in the value chain of fuels, ensuring that there is no abuse, undue use or, better said, a speculation by Galp and other companies in the formulation of the fuel price in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u62	To reply, Mr President, the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u63	Mr President, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, I have no doubt as much of the relevance this instrument has. As you also know, what remained in the law, and that was the way it was approved, is that it is the regulatory entity of the sector that makes a proposal for these same marketing margins throughout the chain, from the refining margin to the retail margin. And I have a great desire to be able to use this tool, which seems fundamental to me to impose justice. It is also true that those who took account of this process were, of course, the regulatory entity of the sector, the ERSE, which published a very well done regulation, which is under public discussion until May, seems to me to be late. I will not stop insisting on ERSE — and the decision is that of ERSE, with all the freedom, which you do not, as you know, give me reason — to, because I think it is essential, to anticipate the end of the public discussion of this regulation for that tool to exist. The honourable Member will remember that I had very little company — I had yours and I knew it well! — when I made this proposal myself. This is because immediately the competition authorities and others came to say that it was obvious that no one had ever found any understanding of fuel prices. Personally, I think it is enough to walk on the road to realize that this understanding exists, and that is why it is essential that the government have this tool. Yes, this government, or any other after this, should be able to use this tool that I want to believe that in May/June it will be on the table, but that I sincerely wish it could be before. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u64	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u65	Mr President, Minister, I cannot quote the exact words, but just a few months ago, Mr Prime Minister has simplified a thought in Parliament, which is his own — and which I am now also accompanying — about the exercise of the mandate of the regulators and the way in which the public authorities, it is understood that the public executive powers have often de-responsibility throughout history, throwing their responsibilities, which were theirs, over the regulatory entities. I must tell you that it is not just Mr Minister who thinks that it is too late, we think it is too late to act on this matter today. This is because, as Mr Minister has just mentioned, we are seeing that today, contrary to what we have seen over the last few days in the international fuel market, the price of oil, is probably already on a stopover stage of the rise or possibly a slight drop. We'll see what the trend is for the next few weeks, none of us will be bet on it, I think, because uncertainty is huge, but the fact is that the price of oil is at least not rising as prices in gasoline bombs have been in the last few weeks. That's factual. However, we see that prices in petrol pumps are rising and on this point what people are asking the government to do is do something and what Mr. Minister came here to say is that by May ERSE will decide something and the government will soon do, if ERSE so indicates. Mr. Minister, it's too late. The question I have to ask you is how does the government explain EUR 406 million of dividends that Galp decided to distribute to its shareholders — EUR 406 million in one year, with historically high fuel prices! Is this not the result of a speculative policy in view of these prices? Is it not our citizens, Portuguese and Portuguese, who works here and who lives here who is paying directly or indirectly the increase in the cost of essential goods and goods and this speculation? And doesn't the government have a duty to act on this speculation? I believe that the Minister has not answered these questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u66	Mr Minister, if you will, you have a word again to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u67	Mr President, honourable Member, on regulatory entities, I always think the same thing, unlike, for example, the Left Block. I remember, when decisions were made by me, even in the previous government, that this, not in respect of waste, of the way the Left Block has burned, and the word is this, has burned the Regulatory Authority of Water and Waste Services. Why? Dava, you're good! Now, as you don't mind, they have a completely different opinion. I continue to think exactly the same way: I do not think that Montesquieu has been deceived, that the powers are even the legislature, the executive and the judiciary and, therefore, that the regulatory power is obviously "son" of the legislative power and must have the role it deserves. I have no reason, in fact, to magnify the power of the regulator, of this or any other, but there is one thing that is true: who knows the formation of prices, who has the conditions to study and to be able to realize where there are excessive margins and where they are along chains that are complex is even the Regulatory Entity of the Energy Sector. However, not everything is done with a fingerbrush, there are things that work and I, who are at work, respect the work of others very much. in this case, ERSE understood to need this work, until — and this part is true, Mr, I think we will agree – in good rigour, part of nothing, because what I know of all that this regulation was done only by the Competition Authority are successive reports that say: "It's all right! It's okay! It's okay! Do not keep on seeking. ” I don't think anything is all right and it's because I didn't think it was all right that I myself proposed to my government as it came to pass. Mr. Deputies, on Galp's profits, I will say nothing. I have no opinion on the profits of companies,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u68	That's right! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u69	...I don't know how to structure the businesses of these companies, I don't know where they make more or less money, in which geography is that this happens or ceases to happen...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u70	So, isn't the state an shareholder? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u71	...and therefore, with all honesty, I will neither speak nor speak, whether in relation to this company or any other.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u72	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u73	Mr President, Minister, recently told a Member that if he did not understand it was because he did not want to, because he has no doubt that he has competence to understand. I tell you now that if you don't know, it's because you don't want to know. Minister, the State is a shareholder of Galp, which is only the largest oil company operating in Portugal, which has a considerable, hegemonic market share. And the Minister, who protects the area and who belongs to a government representing the shareholder, does not have an opinion on Galp, its formation of profits and its speculation in this context? Mr. Minister, I don't believe this! Mr. Minister can repeat as many times as you want, but I don't believe that! If you don't have it's because you don't want to have it, but you should have it! As regards the responsibility of those in the government, I think that the Minister does not want to take such an opinion here, which is also wrong to him, I repeat, too. I wanted to finish this block of questions by touching on another aspect of energy, electricity. Mr Minister mentioned a safeguard that exists in the price of the regulated market, but there are many consumers—that are not industrial consumers—that are on the liberalised market,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u74	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u75	... and these are already suffering and will suffer more with the results of the increase in the price of electricity. On this matter, the government — it is worth more than ever! — he realized that he had to limit electricity prices, restating those 180 € / MWh, which was what existed in the past and that the government had eliminated. Therefore, limiting the cost of electricity is a good measure, that the Left Block had already claimed and that the government was late to implement, but it did well. However, the same reasoning does not explain why, realizing that there is a speculation, the result of the increase in the price of natural gas,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u76	Sir, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u77	I shall conclude by concluding my sentence: realizing that there is speculation, as a result of the increase in the price of natural gas, it is not explained that this speculation does not fight with such 180 €, because it exists, for example,...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u78	In the water!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u79	...in the case of water, with an over-income, even when that amount is paid. And, in fact, this overincome is a cost that is thrown to the economy, to families, which is incomprehensible, at a time when everything is rising. Therefore, Minister, I ask what the Government will do about this and will finally have the courage to reduce electricity VAT, which is so fundamental in this context.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u80	Mr. Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u81	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government has not removed any caps, the Government has only transposed itself because it was obliged to do so — a Community regulation which proposed it or, better, that it has so decided. Therefore, that is what the government has done, there was no option of the government. Mr President, we have no doubt that the marginalist system was designed for a time when renewable energies represented 20 % of the market and today represent 60 % of the market, which is obviously excellent news. That is why it is essential — and we are completely open and available and I think that this should be — that, on the scale of the European electricity market that we have to build more and more, be appreciated how to form the price of electricity. We are completely open, as I have said several times, and I really think that should be done. I have no expectations of the result, that is what it is being and it is, in fact, very interesting that this is done. We are right now, as you say, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — with a gas price, which I will not call speculative because this has a very clear connotation, much higher than that which was, whatever the reason, loudly, when this cap of 180 € / MWh was released, and that is what we have to do. There is one thing we know: in fact, we do not even want to harm those who are more efficient and therefore we do not want to stop using the form of marginal pricing, so that the solar and wind turbines multiply and produce more and more electricity. At the same time, we know that, as regards gas, it is impossible today at some of the combined power stations — in one is, in another, not — to produce at this price of €180 / MWh. And being this impossible, we naturally have to pay the cost price, which has to be audited after the initial payment. We also know that we cannot find the mechanism in which water stations, in the office, always enter the combined cycle before the plants, because, if so, we will even empty our dams. It is this mechanism that we have designed and that we are currently discussing with Spain. We believe that, by the end of this week, we will have a proposal equal to that of the Spaniards, because our proposals, having the same objective, are different. But as you know, Mr President, this is a proposal to be discussed in the context of the European Council, and of the strict European Council of the Prime Ministers and not of the Ministers of Energy, and as I also said in my initial speech - and I swear not to repeat the word'savance' so as not to hurt anyone', it is indeed a decision that has many opponents to this model. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u82	I now give the floor to the CFP, by the voice of Mr Duarte Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the CFP took the initiative to convene this hearing in the face of the escalation of fuel prices, which harms the lives of the people, the survival of many micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, with disastrous effects also on consumer goods prices. It must be said that this increase in price has a speculative character and will only benefit the millionaire profits of oil, if there is no political courage to face great interests. The measures submitted by the Government are insufficient either because, from a fiscal point of view, they fall short of what was necessary, or because, without regular prices, there is no guarantee that any tax relief is not wholly or partly absorbed by oil, limiting the real effects on the price paid by consumers. The price problem must be addressed in three components: international quote, margins and taxation. Starting with international quotations, because that is where this brutal increase originates, it is necessary to question this model, based on the Platts index of Rotterdam Square, an index constructed by a private consultant, from information given by the oil tankers themselves, without any scrutiny, and which determines such reference price.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u84	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u85	It is because of this speculative system of quotations that we have this absurd: the price of oil increases one day and soon increases the prices of fuels, when these fuels have been refined for months, with the price of oil far below the current price. Then we have the margins, too. The Communication of the National Energy Sector Entity ( ENSE ) last July is clear: in 2020 and 2021, oil margins were on average higher than in 2019, reaching the maximum in the period analyzed by that study by the ENSE. It also tells the ENSE that it is the gross margin that explains the increase that then occurred in July, and that in the meantime has been worsening. Let's just think: how is it possible that when the oil barrel reached its historical maximum value, which was in July 2008, above $140, the gas oil was sold at $1, 41 litre, and now that the oil reached $130 and not 140, on March 7, the gas oil is being sold almost $2? Oh, my God! There are those who are winning here—and a lot! — at the expense of this speculation.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u86	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u87	currently, Galp is with refining margins in the order of 9, 8 dollars per barrel of refined oil, when the normal in the homologous periods of the previous year was 2 or 3 dollars, reaching $7 in some periods. There is a margin of refinement of 9, 8 dollars per barrel in March, facing the margins of 3, 6 dollars in February. In view of the fact that some 300 000 barrels per day are refined in Sines, this gives about EUR 1, 8 million per day of additional gain, which is then combined with the wholesale trade margin and the gains of Galp's own oil operation. So who pays for this business is always the Portuguese people. The Government has instruments approved in this Assembly of the Republic to intervene on the margins, but so far nothing has done so far. And it only does not have the fastest instruments, which Mr Minister has just mentioned, because he rejected the proposal from the CFP, presented in September, which also proposed a maximum price regime, without these protective mechanisms which he has now referred to. Finally, I am referring to taxation, which represents a huge burden on Portuguese consumers. in this respect the PCP has defended the end of the call additional to the ISP, created by the Government in 2016, and the end of the double taxation of the ISP in VAT. It makes no sense that VAT affects the fuel plus the ISP, which means it is a tax paying tax and this double tax has to end. The immediate solution is the combination of these tax measures with the operation on the margins and the maximum price to ensure that the tax measures do not fall « in broken bag ». Today we're dealing with emergency responses. But this situation is once again revealing the lack of a sovereign energy policy that serves the country. It is necessary to change the path of privatization, price liberalisation, to leave private capital decisions on this strategic sector that is energy, the path of asset destruction, such as the Matosinhos refinery, putting the country in a situation of vulnerability to external factors that do not control and to international situations, such as this one we now live. Fuels and the energy sector are too strategic to be in the hands of the market or better the oligopolies that sign up to maintain their millionaire profits. This situation needs to be answered immediately, but the government's measures are not enough. An alternative policy is also needed to ensure public control over this strategic energy sector, and the CFP will continue to beat. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u88	You have the floor again, Mr Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u89	Mr President, Mr Duarte Alves, yes, when the CFP proposed that fuel prices should be fixed, I was against. I was against and I maintain the same opinion. I would even say that, if this had been done, this debate was with the CFP to demand that the government demand the gas bombs to open because they had closed almost all of them. So in very good time, indeed, we have been against setting these prices. But, yes, I do think that a part of the problem—not the problem we are living today—is or, at least, may be on the margins, you are absolutely right. The ENSE report that I mentioned, until I know who made it public, was a failure that is now talking to you and that I said—and well, at the time! — that, in fact, unacceptablely, the margins during the two blackest years of the pandemic went up a lot, compared to what they were before and what certainly came after that. I remember the justification that they came to give immediately: it was that it was absolutely normal, because, then, if I see much less fuel and have the same fixed costs as my gas or gas sales store, it is obvious that I have to increase the margin. What does that mean? It means that the market is far from perfect and, therefore, it was essential what the government proposed and in which it continues to believe. Certainly, and completing the answer I already gave to the Left Block, we really need to know the margins and we have to look at them and we have to have tools to be able to limit them. And, yes, we are all right, realizing that there are places where it is even more complex to set these margins, particularly when companies are integrative, i.e., they are producers, they are refiners and they are those who sell. It is much more difficult to see where, in fact, there may be margins which are distorted and which obviously have to always have a benchmark and always have to be able to compare. Mr President, a sovereign energy policy is a policy in which energy does not matter or where the energy minimum is concerned.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u90	Fuels are hard!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u91	So, honourable Member, there's one thing I'm saying to you: when there was a refinery in Leça da Palmeira, Portugal did not produce oil...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u92	But I was refining gas oil!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u93	... and now it doesn't produce either.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u94	I didn't care about gas!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u95	And, therefore, imagine that a country is more sovereign by importing 100 % of energy, which is, in fact, the vision of the CFP, honor be made to you! Open... The CFP dreams of a world—and it is clear here—in which Portugal matters very much coal. Yes, because coal for electricity production in Portugal is not imported! Coal doesn't matter, it appears there, according to the PCP! At the same time, the oil that arrived at the Leça da Palmeira refinery was not imported either, it was there.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u96	There were people refining!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u97	Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, to have energy independence is not to have coal power stations or refineries. It doesn't mean they don't need much. But to have energy independence is to use the resources we have to produce the energy we need. And the resources we have are the water—unfortunately, less and less! — the sea, but especially the sun and the wind, and we must have the best way to use these resources more and more. That, yes, is energy independence, we use our resources and not the resources we care about to produce the energy we need to live, produce and be happy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u98	You have the floor again, to ask the Minister and to waste his time, Mr Duarte Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u99	Mr President, Minister, on the issue of maximum prices, I still do not understand why the government says it will move in taxes and then, when asked at the press conference to Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, if that would have any real effect on prices, the answer you gave was that you had confidence...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u100	Faith!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u101	...that the agents would not want to make money with this and would not incorporate that margin. The truth is that this profession of faith does not stick to reality. Margins have been increasing and, if there is no regulation of margins and prices, any tax measure can be absorbed immediately.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u102	It's gonna be okay!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u103	As for the Matosinhos refinery, what we say about sovereignty is now evident. For example, there were products, such as vacuum gas oil, which were refined only in the Matosinhos refinery and, at the moment, we are dependent, because it is not refined anywhere else. It is totally different from the point of view of energy sovereignty, we import refined fuels or import oil and refine in Portugal. And environmental concerns are not at stake, because we continue to consume fuel.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u104	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u105	I conclude, Mr President, once again stating that the Government should sincerely consider no longer being the biggest supporter of the Galp strategy for the Matosinhos refinery and, on the contrary, promoting the reopening of that refinery as a strategic element for the country's energy sovereignty. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u106	Mr Minister, if you will, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u107	Mr President, Mr Duarte Alves, very briefly, I am going to repeat myself and I am aware of this, but also of the question you have asked and in which you have repeated it. Mr President, having energy sovereignty is really dependent essentially on what our resources are in an economy that I will always want to open, which I will never want to close. We are, in fact, a small, global open economy, and we benefit from it. But when we can use what our own territory gives us, this is the bet we should make and therefore clearly our path is not the path of fossil, unlike that of VV. Ex.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u108	I'm not talking about electricity, I'm talking about fuel!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u109	You now have the floor to ask the Minister, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u110	Mr President, Minister, I would like to begin by complimenting you again. I thought I'd done it for the last time, but after all, I think this will be the last time, at least while I'm in this position. On this debate I would like to begin by making some distinctions here. Mr Minister, when asked questions about taxation, he said that it would be better to discuss this with the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs. First, I would like to say that this debate is about the price of fuels and that it is impossible to discuss the price of fuels without also discussing taxation, given that taxation is responsible for a little less or a little more than half — depending on how it is oscillating — its price. So I don't see how you can discuss a price without discussing a factor that is about half that price, on the one hand. On the other hand, what was marked, on the agenda I received, was in fact a debate with the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, so I have every pleasure in dialogue with the Minister, but I have to talk about taxation, because it is part of the matter. in this matter, I think it is important to go to the facts and distinguish what has to do with the war that does not have to do with the war, because there is obviously a factor that has, yes, to do with the war and I will talk about it later.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u111	Just one? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u112	I would like to start with the story of what does not have to do with the war and I would remind you, therefore, only these facts because it is now said that the government has begun to take some measures — which I think are few, but they are, in any case, measures. I imagine, with DGEG data, a 40 l deposit, let's suppose, gas oil. In April 2015, filling this deposit cost about €45, 80 and paid in taxes €24, 64. I've analyzed over time how much tax was paid every time a 40 l gas oil car is tested. In 2016, we were already at 26, 84 €, plus 2 € ; then, in 2017 and 2018, the price stabilized, plus 2 € above, at about 28 € ; then, in 2019, we were already at 29 € ; in March 2020, we were already at 30 € ; in 2021, at 30, 68 €; and in February 2022, at 32, 36 €. And then, in fact, with the effect of the war, it goes to 33, 68 €. So what the Minister here has said is that he has taken steps to ensure that this latest increase, which has to do with the war, is not meaningful or void, but this great increase that has felt over the years—and I compare 2015, 24, 64 €, with 2021, 30, 68 € —, Minister, remains. The first question is this: would it not make sense, at the moment, to cancel this increase that your government has made in fuel? I do not want to get into a political controversy, because I do not think it comes here on purpose, but frankly, for a government that has so often boasted that it has not increased taxes, this is in fact the other side of the government that has not increased taxes. This is also a tax that is meaningful in the Portuguese pocket. Secondly, I have heard the Government say that it cannot now move to VAT, because it needs European authorisation. I ask you whether this is the case and whether or not there are other countries that have already moved to VAT. Then, if what they need is Parliament — and indeed it is not possible to move on VAT without Parliament — I would like to remind you that, last October, a proposal was discussed here to reduce not VAT but the ISP, precisely by cancelling this increase, and the government understood to follow a path of legislation that moves on the shores, which is such legislation that now apparently several critics, but it was the parties who voted in favour of that legislation. It was a legislation that was manifestly wrong, was incomplete and needed great regulation and, as you can see, it cannot yet be applied. I would also like to ask you about this legislation, whether or not we are in an energy crisis and whether the government is considering using the powers of intervention in the context of the energy crisis that the legislation already allows. It is that legislation has already allowed interventions on the margins in a situation of energy crisis, which the government has done has only extended this possibility out of the energy crisis. Finally, Mr President, I am not in favour of governments determining prices, but if the Minister could simply explain to us why, when oil rises, the prices of petrol and diesel rise immediately and, when oil goes down, prices do not go down immediately, it would also be good.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u113	Mr. Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u114	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is precisely because I am asking myself, just like the honourable Member, about the speed with which the price of petrol and gasoline for consumers goes up when oil comes up, and this happens at very different speeds when oil comes down — and at that time the CDS disagreed — that it was even essential to understand how the margins are formed in the various times of production of this refined good and that it reaches each of the service stations. You're absolutely right. In view of the shortness of time we have gone, we have never had the illusion that this bill would be completely regulated, except for error, which has been voted upon. That is what the regulator did after us, as indeed, competes with it, and in a very structured way. Slowly than what reality has shown us? Yeah, that's true, too. I therefore said and repeat, I think it is good that this public consultation is concluded in a shorter way than what ERSE itself has determined, because this is a public consultation in time of war and, therefore, we obviously need to be able to speed up. Madam Member, the reduction of ISP in the face of VAT increases is even an exercise of transparency. But about him, with all honesty, what I can say is the numbers that I myself collect from the information that is given to me within the government, but which I will not be able to discuss in detail. That is not an appeal to the Government for which I reply, this is a debate for which I, with great honor and great pleasure, was called. So there is something that I feel the government has started doing well and now it has done better. It is obvious to me that the government does not have an extra tax revenue in view of a higher turnover generated by the litre of fuel being also higher, and to make this account as a whole, because we also know that the more expensive gas oil and gasoline, the less liters are sold and therefore the tax revenue, as a whole, may not increase up to it.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u115	It's more!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u116	It's bigger!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u117	That is how the account was made, when — I am going to use a word that is not very strict, but everyone understands me — the first discount. This is how the account has not been made, this time, being now made with much more transparency and much more crystallizing way, with a formula that is public. The limit is as follows: for every 10 cents increase in the price of gasoline and gasoline, there are 2, 3 cents increase that does not exist, because that is the value of the VAT which is charged in that same liter of gasoline and gasoline. And this account is absolutely transparent. This is what the formula that was made public at the door, which I also signed, with great honor, on Friday or Saturday last, brings us, and the first stamp always has an estimate, because there is no reference price. I repeat, if there was a reference price, it would have to be determined by a public entity and I am not sure that this would be good for consumers, because everyone would go to that price. And that is why we act in this way, and the value of Tuesday is not a reference price. It is in fact the weighted average of the one who was the price of fuels, petrol and petrol during that same period the week between Tuesday and Tuesday. So the formula next Friday or Saturday and its variation will be even more stringent and always calculated per litre, and we have been from the first countries in Europe to act on this issue and to act on electricity and to want to act on gas—as you know we are still very limited in what we can do—and also to act on the price of fuels. That is why, last weekend, Portugal and Spain began to have similar prices, also in this energy source. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u118	A brief note only to say that Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs and Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Energy are not present because they were both victims of the implacable COVID, which seems to have disappeared, but has not disappeared, continues to be active, and all care remains few. You now have the floor to ask your questions, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Minister, first of all, I would like to thank Mr President for his clarification because, indeed, it would be more than relevant to the presence of Mr. Secretary of State to respond on this matter, but we will, however, be pleased to hear Mr. Minister's clarifications in relation to it, especially because, even for an environmentalist party such as the NAP, which is strongly committed to decarbonisation, no one can be indifferent to this increase in oil prices, evidently with a reflection on fuels, when today it is €12 more expensive to deposit than it was a month ago. That is to say, we have several industries and many families that, in their day-to-day efforts to move, have indeed this limitation. Mr Minister, it was not yet clear why it was only in February that ERSE actually came to make the public consultation of the regulation of legislation, which is absolutely imperative. And, in the face of the fact that the same State refuses to lower taxes on fuels so that families and businesses can be relieved from a fiscal point of view and then, on the other hand, it retains the benefits, in particular the exemptions, on petroleum products to electro-products, and only this year if it is estimated to be given a tax benefit, the so-called 'tax bottle' of EUR 263 million, the question which is required, Mr Minister, is how we will compensate the families, how we will help the companies, considering here not only the various sectors that have already been helped — but also, for example, the TVDE sector (Individual Transport and Passengers Remuneration in Vehicles Discharacterized from the Electronic Platform) and taxis, which are going to have this support — but also, for example, the transport of non-urgent patients, which is to be subject to higher prices and to increased remuneration. But still in relation to measures that can help families, and will certainly not fail to be sensitive to this matter, we believe that incentives need to be created, either for the use of public transport, or for alternatives where they do not exist. More today, it is possible to discount in the IRS (tax on the income of natural persons) the monthly pass that we acquire, but if we only make a trip of Alfa Pendular or of the train of CP ( Trains of Portugal) it is not possible to make this deduction. So, Mr Minister, when is true fiscal justice encouraging the use of public transport and also allowing the deduction of these values? Is this also going to be seen as a priority in response to the energy crisis in the context of the aid package under discussion at the European Council? Is Portugal really going to raise this theme? On the other hand, and because we have talked a lot about business activities and the impact on the economy, we cannot forget the energy poverty that, in Portugal, continues to mark the way we live in our homes. Portugal is still one of the countries of Europe where it is most cold. During the discussion of the State budget, the Government had committed itself to the NAP's proposal for an investment of more than 280 million euros in combating energy poverty and what we would like to know is whether this commitment is maintained and whether it is indeed available for the direct and effective fight against energy poverty in the next budget in the homes of Portuguese families, so that we will, in fact, be left to these rankings for the worst reasons. Finally, one of the issues that has not yet been mentioned here today and which, from a strategic point of view, is imperative to discuss the energy empowerment of the various Member States of the European Union. We cannot continue to depend solely on the supply of gas from third countries. The incentive for energy empowerment and the transposition of the new directive which could give rise to this impulse are also urgent and, therefore, we would like to know how long we will have to wait for this directive to be transposed into energy autonomy, precisely so that we can have measures such as the exemption of charges with the installation of self-consumption, new rules for the calculation of renewable energy quotas in transport or for our own bet on technological research in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u120	You have the floor to answer, Mr Minister for the Environment and Climate Action.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u121	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is one question, above all the way it has been so emphatic, for which, frankly, I have no answer: when is fiscal justice? Mrs. Deputy, I don't really have an answer. I don't know when there will be fiscal justice as absolute as you wish. Madam Member, with regard to energy poverty, there are many things we have done. Reiterating some, in this very concrete context, the return of €10 is one third of the cost of a gas store for the 800 000 families benefiting from the social energy tariff, and not all of them will use gas, but all those who use it will have the same benefit; the existence of a social energy tariff itself—when we started functions were less than €80 000 families, today are more than 800 000 families — whose benefit is automatically guaranteed, no one has to apply for anything, this is how it works; in terms of improving the energy efficiency of buildings, all of them, I would like to remind you of the already more than €35 million that have been paid, by the PRR, in the context of the energy efficiency of buildings, and the'sale efficiency', to fight directly against energy poverty, which unfortunately have had less demand than we would like to have. We attribute, color reference, but the deception will not be great, about 5000 vouchers and we have 100,000 to distribute and therefore we have to make a greater disclosure of our own measure, because the search has been small. With regard to dependence on third countries, yes, Portugal must depend as little as possible — and therefore this reduction of energy dependence, by about 8 %, although more than two thirds of the energy we consume in Portugal still has on imports, i.e., it no longer has coal, but it still has oil, all of it, and the gas part that is used not only directly by companies, but also that which is used for electricity production — that is the way we have to go and that is the way we are going. And it is a path that we will make faster than our own goals, from the moment we thought we had 80 % electricity from renewable sources in 2030, and this goal will be even ahead, and in which, recognizing that there is a set of industrial or heavy transport processes where direct use of electricity is not an efficient cost, we have to know how to produce renewable gases. And, realizing that there are processes that need gas and that this gas cannot be natural gas, because we do not have it, because it is fossil, because it has emissions, we should, in fact, replace it by renewable gases, the area in which Portugal actually has the most advanced strategies we know. In the first application notice, with the exception of EUR 45 million, of the PO SEUR ( Operational Programme Sustainability and Efficiency in Resource Use ), for green hydrogen and biomethane, the money was all spent on projects spread across the country— around EUR 5 million of financing, and in the first call for applications, of the PRR, which we launched for hydrogen, which was EUR 82 million, we have EUR 300 million of investment in candidatures, which means about EUR 200 million of basic need, so the EUR 185 million we had to share over five years will probably go if all these projects have merit, be consumed already, to accelerate, and so our independence, also in relation to natural gas.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u122	You now have the floor to ask your questions, Mrs Mariana Silva, of the ENP.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, those who in recent years have forced the Portuguese population to live below their needs, take advantage of all the pretexts, all the justifications to accumulate even more wealth. Fuel companies bought oil for months, refined this oil and now put it on the market. To fix the prices of fuels, they do not use the market quotations of the time they bought oil, they do not even use the day they decide on the increases. They use values that they themselves announce as being possible to achieve in a future that is often not confirmed. Thus, they gain profits based on speculation. Speculation that, in addition to illegal, is immoral, at a time when so many people suffer from war and the sanctions that already have an impact on the lives of Portuguese people. It is this use, which, before, was of the pandemic, then of the post-pandamy recommendation and which, now, is of the war, always finding a justification, which we denounce here today. The illegitimate increase in the price of fuels and energy drags, and much, other prices, especially in food, creating difficulties in many micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. In fact, already in previous debate, here in the Assembly of the Republic, on a proposal from the Government to limit the margins of petrol stations, we said that speculative fuel prices cause very negative consequences at two levels: on the one hand, because people pay more for fuel every time they supply and on the other, because they end up bearing the inflation that consumer goods suffer, due to the increase in production costs, since this increase is always reflected in the final consumer. Consequences also in the fragile health of our companies, especially micro and small ones, since they are faced with more difficulties, which naturally penalises our production and consequently the economy of the country. The answer can only be one: regulation of prices by law. Mr Minister, is there courage or not to face them on this side and decide to lower the price of fuels? But there is another problem that needs immediate response. The Portuguese are impoverished, but they continue to move to work, to study, to health care, to services, to enjoy culture. What is required, however, is that the Government ensure, as the Greens here have often insisted, 'preaching the fish', the extension of the supply of public transport, ensuring the right of all to mobility, with very significant savings in the consumption of fossil fuels and, moreover, with strong impacts on the environment. Is the government committed to this objective in large urban areas but also in rural areas? [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u124	You have the floor to answer, Mr Minister for the Environment and Climate Action.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u125	Mr President, Madam Member, this was not my last visit to the Assembly of the Republic, in this Parliament, and could be cynical, because your intervention almost led you to understand that war is an excuse and I confess that I have a great difficulty in hearing something like this without reacting. In fact, I find it unacceptable for Mrs Mariana Silva to raise the issue in this way, and unacceptable not for me, but for those who are suffering directly from this war and now also for those who, indirectly, are suffering badly, including the generality of the Portuguese, because of the increase in the price of energy and of the goods that are, of course, dependent on this same increase. But, finally, the honourable Member will live well with her statements. Ladies and gentlemen, collective transport has taken all the time. I heard it silently and I was amazed, because, Mrs Deputy, throughout the time of the pandemic, when many of the sectors in Portugal, unfortunately, had to interrupt their operation, one of them, that of the collective transport, was obliged to keep that functioning. And in fact, the support that was given was very significant, increasing by three amounts provided for in the PART(Tax Reduction Support Programme in Public Transport) at the beginning of the year, just in order to ensure that transport remained. Before the war — which you think is just a pretext, but it is a war — what happened was that the first support was given to public transport, not all collectives, taxis and buses. That's what we did, with 10 cents per litre, and now we multiply, with 30 cents per litre.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u126	You must ask who's on transport!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u127	Mrs. Deputy, you still have 17 seconds. This is, in fact, one of the sectors that we know is absolutely relevant for social well-being, absolutely relevant for people's mobility and absolutely relevant for decarbonisation, because breaking, reducing or doing something that impairs the offer of collective transport obliges, more often than not, to use individual transport, which is not only more expensive as it is also more issuers, as you know. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u128	You have the floor, to ask questions, Mr. André Ventura, from arrive.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u129	Mr President, Minister, what came here today was to recognize the absolute failure of the Government's strategy, and I will mention two of its expressions that show this very well: the Minister says he does not know why the search has been very small in relation to the vouchers that the Government has distributed. And he also says that they have indeed failed that the regulation of such border control has not yet been done. It is curious how you could not come here to bring any news to the Portuguese people who are currently suffering to at least supply your vehicle. It wasn't the war that caused this climb. And the Minister is right: it is very embarrassing to say that war is an excuse. It's not! It is that since last year, in fact, since 2015, the government has had more than 600 million euros of ISP revenue. And you know how much you're going to return to people in VAT? 90 million. This is a robbery! That's what it's called, it's a tax theft, when we take 600 and give 90 and we tell people we're on the right track. The Minister came to this Parliament and said: "We will give people, without asking anyone anything, a thousand euros, and we will give them without having to answer or question anything." Mr Minister, do you think taxi drivers, drivers, those who are currently struggling to get a decent activity in Portugal want to know about your questions and your answers? They want to have the cheapest gas, they want to have the cheapest gasoline. The Minister here says that he will give you a thousand euros without asking them anything, that is, it is a shame, it is a shame that you have to answer not in this Parliament, but out there in front of the Portuguese. So the question to the Government is very simple, and you can make any rounds you want, but you will have to answer this: is the government available or not — if Brussels permits it, despite Poland, and, I know, Brussels, in this case, has not yet authorized it — to allow fuel VAT to fall to the intermediate rate? If we do, it is a 10 % savings in the consumer.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u130	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the time available.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u131	I will finish, Mr. President. If we drop VAT to the intermediate rate, we save 10 % in the consumer. I also ask if it is available to review the VAT table... [[Protests by the Minister for Environment and Climate Action.]] Mr Minister, let me talk, because otherwise this is impossible. I also ask whether it is available to revise the VAT table for essential goods, in particular for food goods. This is what people want to know. Your questions, keep them for yourself. The Portuguese want to know this: will the government or will it not stop giving bills, subsidies and things like that and it will or will not be taxed? [[Protests by the Minister for Environment and Climate Action.]] This is what the Portuguese want to know and I would like Mr. Minister to answer this.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u132	To reply, Mr President, the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u133	Mr President, I am not going to reply to you « your questions, keep them for yourself ». No, I'm not gonna answer that. Mr President, with regard to the fight against energy poverty voucher, I have done something that you are unable to do, because you truly feel the Sun on Earth, which has been recognized, because I recognize, that we have not, in fact, been very happy in disclosure. This is an exercise called "self-criticism" and to do better, because we also keep the 100 000 vouchers to be able to distribute.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u134	And you think that's enough? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u135	Mr President, what I referred to was an example of simplification in the allocation of support for taxis and buses, i.e. without knowing whether or not they traveled miles, to pay the head a prefixed value, based on an estimate of the average value of the fuel consumed by buses and taxis in each month: 380 l per month for each taxi; 2100 l per month for each bus. That is actually what we did, and we did it as simple as possible. I wasn't ironing with anything. As far as VAT changes are concerned, and even more so for food products, he knows well — until we all realize that he is a great tax specialist, having never noticed which side you are on —...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u136	People's side!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u137	... that these are the Community rules and, therefore, only at the European Union level can they be changed.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u138	That's not true! That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u139	It's true, it is! Mr President, it is not for you to say that it is not true that...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u140	Poland did it in January!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u141	So when we did it for electricity, we did it in a balanced way and with a prior authorization...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u142	Mr. Minister, I call attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u143	For me, I will stay here, Mr President. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u144	It's better! [[President Adam Silva's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u145	To put questions, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u146	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry, but I'm going to have to talk about taxes. I know that Mr. Minister is not here in this quality, and I would like to see improvements to his colleagues in the government, but just as Members have to ask questions on various issues, Mr. Minister, with the protection of energy, will have to talk about taxes. This is because your colleague on tax matters, on Friday, when he presented the famous formula, said that making -the public was a way to allow Portuguese and consumers to go with relief - was the expression he used — and being able to go with it was a way of transparency. And the formula he presented was this. The speaker displayed a sheet with the formula he mentioned. I understand that from there, from the government bench, don't see, but if I saw it, I didn't understand anything either. The only number that is understood here, of the various variables, is the number 1006, 44. And what is it? It is the value in euro that the State collects, on average, in each litre of fuel. What date? — ask you. March 7th, a week ago. And the question is this: why does the government decide to fix the revenue on March 7, when in the last year gas oil, which is the overwhelming majority of fuel used in transport, rose by 50%? Why not set the revenue of one year ago, or, better still, the revenue of 26 November 2015, which was when you took possession — the famous management — at which time the ISP went up consecutively and produced an increase in significant tax revenue? Why not? Why fix the state revenue, defend the state, while there are Portuguese people who will pay hundreds of millions of euros more this year on their fuel? It's because the government says: I'm going to help, I made my recipe. But it sets the recipe of a week ago, it's not that of a month ago, nor that of a six, nor that of a year ago, nor that of your takeover, it's that of a week ago. This isn't moral!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u147	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u148	When the Portuguese are going to have to make a huge effort, the only thing that has the full deposit is the government. This doesn't make sense. Why is there not a significant reduction in taxes with their impact on tax revenue, for the benefit of Portuguese, which will suffer quite well this year at the price of fuels?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u149	Mr Minister, you can respond, please, by simplifying and immediately turning to the answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u150	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I appreciate your sympathy, but I am not sorry to ask questions about taxes. I do not want this to be an appeal to the government, but I may not be able to answer a few questions about taxes that you would like to ask, but I know how to answer the question you have asked me. Mr. Deputy, March 7th, why? Because it was Monday that we actually started to be able to return every week in the form of ISP, which is the increase in VAT. Mr President, the increases in the largest gas station, or in the largest gas station in Portugal, are announced on the sixth and take place on the second. Therefore, because only on Tuesday is that we have the right value, which is not, I repeat, a reference value, is the value of DGEG, which we wanted to be able to guarantee, on Monday, seven days after 7 March, in relation to the weekly increase, that the weekly increase in VAT was returned to the Portuguese in ISP. Therefore, the dates of 7, 14, 21, 28 — and this will be the metric we will follow—because every week, every weekend there will be that same port. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u151	You now have the floor to ask questions, Mr João Paulo Correia, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u152	Mr President, Minister, Secretary of State, the fuel price crisis results from the war, the invasion of Ukraine by Russia. The increase in the price of fuels began in October, with the tension created by Russia on the borders with Ukraine, and has escalated to this day. The fuel price crisis is transversal to all European countries, it is not just a crisis in Portugal. And to prove what I'm saying here, it's enough to remember that no opposition party this time was looking for the Spanish case.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u153	No need!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u154	It is that in all the debates we had here, the parties always brought the case of Spain, to say that here alongside, the selling price to the public of liquid fuels was much lower than that of Portugal. It has ceased to be, because in recent days the price of fuels in Spain has fired.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u155	And he still boasts about it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u156	This proves, therefore, that this is a cross-cutting crisis for all European countries. Then it is worth remembering: the PSD electoral programme also foresees that it will not be implemented, the strengthening of environmental taxation to alleviate the IRS and IRC (tax on the income of the public). In other words, the intention of the PSD was to increase the tax burden on fuels, all of them, to finance the decline of IRS and IRC. It is worth remembering, because the PSD writes something, commits itself to the election campaign with an objective and then arrives here at the debate and falls into the populist temptation to present its arguments. [[PSD protests.]] It is also appropriate to order the following: there has been no increase in taxes on the price of fuels since 2016.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u157	Oh, no? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u158	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u159	In fact, recently, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS brought here an exercise, in which she came to say that whoever supplied a car with 40 € in 2015 paid x of taxes and that x was increasing up to 2021. And I asked myself: why did Mrs. Cecilia Meireles start this exercise in 2015 and did not start in 2014 for example?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u160	That's when your government took possession!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u161	Because in 2014 there was no carbon rate. The carbon rate was created by a PSD / CDS government and was introduced in 2015. If Mrs Deputy had started her financial year 2014, she would be saying « between 2014 and 2015, fuel price taxes increased because my government created the carbon rate ». [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u162	He was fine, too!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u163	More, it created the carbon rate, which is a component of the price of fuels, with the commitment of the carbon rate increasing year by year, including in 2022.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u164	But are you in favor or are you against the carbon rate? Oh, my God! If they're against you, take it off!
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u165	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is another fundamental issue to have a serious debate: the fuel market is a free market, it is a liberalized market. It was liberalised in 2002 by a PSD/CDS government led by Durão Barroso, which stood for history with the famous phrase « The liberalisation of the fuel market will reduce prices ». [[PSD protests.]] Perhaps, if we did not have a crisis in the price of fuels, caused by a war, the Liberal Initiative would be celebrating the 20 years of the liberalisation of the fuel market as a fantastic solution for what the market should be in light and in the eyes of liberals. I would also like to recall the following: the Government, as you have already said here, Mr Minister, does not dominate the setting of the price of fuels, because the market is free, but it can, and it is up to you, to mitigate the increase in the price of fuels. This is what the Government did when it created the « AUTovoucher », when it lowered the ISP, when, after being enabled by the Assembly of the Republic, it fixed the marketing margins throughout the value chain. It is worth recalling that the suspension of the increase in the carbon rate to 2022, at least until 30 June, is already a saving of EUR 180 million. That's the impact. The mechanism for returning VAT revenue through the ISP is already a saving of EUR 90 million for consumers and the AUTOvoucher savings of EUR 133 million. Obviously, the diploma that enables ERSE and the Government to set the marketing margins across the entire fuel price value chain is missing, which is an essential tool. And the Minister here said with courage that it was worth shortening the deadline for the public consultation so that the Government and the Regulatory Entity would be fully empowered to introduce this tool, because it is essential at this time of crisis. It is also important to hear the conclusions of the last European Council, with regard to the response Europe has to give in the short term to this fuel price crisis caused by the invasion of Ukraine by Russia. The proposal to reduce the VAT rate on fuel prices is a proposal by the Government, announced by the Prime Minister, and an application was made for authorisation to the European Commission so that Member States wishing to lower the VAT rate on fuel prices can do so within the shortest possible time frame. We are therefore all waiting for the European Commission to so authorize it. There is also a proposal from the Member States for a joint purchase to reduce the impact of rising fuel prices in countries such as Portugal and a request for authorisation to the European Commission for direct support to companies which have been most massacred, which depend more on energy resources. Finally, I would like to ask what the Government expects of these three proposals which have been ventilated with the European Commission: the fall in the VAT rate, the joint purchase and direct support to companies most dependent on energy resources. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u166	Mr Minister, you have the floor and, in order to simplify, if you understand it, you can immediately turn to the answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u167	Mr President, Mr. João Paulo Correia, as I have said, well, the war is there, to the detriment of all of us, to the worst of who is Ukrainian and lives in Ukraine, and the times we are going to live are difficult times. I repeat the expression I used in my speech: I paint no world of water, I have no doubt that the increases will come. These increases have an associated cascade, because the increases in basic energy services always have an impact on the goods that it depends on, and all of them are transported, so they all do. It is also true that, at this time, unfortunately, there are always those who take advantage of it and there are always those who, for the alleged fear of it, end up earning more than what is due and it is not always solidarity. Therefore, what the Government has to do, and does, is as follows: without prejudice to tax revenue, because it needs the same tax revenue for the essential services of the country to function — schools, hospitals and all other fundamental services for well-being and sometimes for basic services of the Portuguese themselves — the Government considers it unacceptable to have more tax revenue depending on the increase in the price of a good which is fundamental, which is energy, and the fuels which, within that same energy, increase, because the price of oil increases and all the chain that is associated with it also increases. And as the only tax in our hand can move, because it's by the port that we can move in, it's the ISP, from there its reduction. As I said, but I use to repeat, the ISP reduction values between October and January and last week were, firstly, less than 4 % in gasoline and less than 3 % in gasoline and, secondly, less than 3 % in gasoline and less than 7 % in gasoline. With this, we are, of course, buffering the increase that results from the increase in the cost of oil. Many other things have been done to protect those in need. This is the case of the 10 € for each gas bill and the « AUTOvoucher » case, which went from 5 € to 20 € and is intended for everyone. There is, in fact, one area in these three questions which you have asked me about, and which only you have mentioned, which is the one I am most concerned about and on which the Government still has to ask. I am referring to the support given to companies that use gas as an energy source and have no alternative to the use of the same gas. The impact they suffer is absolutely direct, because, increasing the price of gas, obviously, also increases the price of their own energy source. in this area, the government's margin of manoeuvre is very small. I was looking for a paper to give you a certain number, but I will not lie much if I say the following: the gas price tax does not represent more than 5 % or 6 % of the value of the gas itself and the rate of access to the gas networks is less than 5 %. In other words, what we are talking about, whether from a fiscal point of view or from the point of view of the network access rate, is very small values and, to the limit, would have no impact on the price that these same companies are paying. That is why it is essential to be able, together with the European Union, to ease or, to the limit, to put aside the rules (which we perceive exist) of direct support and to understand them, in fact, as a State subsidy, so that we can support these same companies and maintain as intact as possible, because intact our productive apparatus will no longer remain. Sectors such as ceramics, glass, textiles, paper are highly dependent on gas, have no alternative and see the cost of their production factors rising in arrow. It is obvious that this does not happen uniformly in companies. A company that, three months ago, made a supply contract for a year doesn't feel anything. A company that did it a little while ago, or that will make that gas contract in a few days, can feel that very big impact. As I said, the proposal put on the table by the European Commission, as a pre-proposal, is this: up to 30 % of the difference in the price of gas and EUR 2 million for companies using this fuel less intensively and 50% of that difference, up to EUR 15 million ceiling, for companies using it more intensively, leaving each State the payment of that same direct support. This represents EUR 380 million. We feel that this support is short, in view of the needs of many companies, and we will never be able to speak by a sector, we must even speak to the company, in accordance with the contract that each of them has made. With regard to the other two questions which you have addressed to me, to joint purchases and to VAT, Mr Deputies, as regards joint purchases, I am not sure of the ease of carrying out these same mechanisms, because there are always countries, usually the larger countries, which are opposed. Why? Oh, my God! The existence of a joint purchase means inevitably something: some, who already bought, will pay more and others will pay less. There are therefore a number of countries in central Europe for which joint purchases are not a good option. Although Portugal is, as I said in the initial speech — and it has not been discussed in this debate — completely quiet, though very attentive, with regard to the availability of energy, particularly gas, gas and petrol, it is clear that joint purchases would reinforce this same security mechanism, although I repeat, in front of us, until I see, there has been no break-in. We have been accompanied, from our ministry, almost every ship that comes with gas and everything has run with all nature. Mr President, with regard to the reduction of VAT for all forms of energy, at least the reduction of VAT so that revenue is not greater than what is in the Budget for each year, I am sincerely convinced that there is a great deal of traction and significant support for this measure by European countries, which all feel the same disparity as many of them did, and that Portugal did not, but suffers by table, which was essentially dependent on Russia for its energy supply. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u168	To put the last questions, Mr Nuno Fazenda of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u169	Mr President, Minister for the Environment and Climate Action, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, the increase in energy costs results, as is known and as it was clear, at least for the majority of participants in this debate, a war in Europe, an invasion, a military aggression from Russia to a sovereign country, Ukraine, the country, which, in fact, has deserved the solidarity of all Portuguese and the overwhelming majority of peoples and nations around the world. The impacts of this war are global. Portugal does not live on an island, is not immune to the impacts, including energy, caused by this war. However, Portugal is not as energy-dependent as Europe, which depends about 40 % of Russia's natural gas, or Germany, for example, which depends 55 % of Russian gas. The gas from Russia to Portugal represents around 10 % of all imports. Even so, we have seen in recent weeks an increase in energy costs, more specifically fuel costs, as is the case throughout Europe. These are significant increases for companies and for Portuguese. Therefore, two types of response are required: short-term responses and medium- and long-term responses. In the short term, we need answers that will enable companies and families to be relieved immediately. In this context, I stress three of the measures already mentioned: measures to mitigate the increase in fuel costs, such as the suspension of the carbon rate, the fall in ISP or the increase in ‘AUTOVoucher’; increased support for the collective passenger transport sector, taxis and TVDEs; and the creation of support for companies in the sectors most affected by the rise in energy and fuel costs in particular. There is one last step, which is the question of reducing the VAT rate on fuels. This is a measure, as has already been said, that does not depend on the government, the government has submitted it, but the decision only comes from the European Commission. But if we have to act immediately, we must continue to act in the medium and long term. And if there is anything that this crisis has shown is that the energy transition must even be continued and accelerated. It has already been said today that 60 % of the electricity produced in Portugal originates in renewable energy. If this were not the case today, our country would certainly have a more serious situation in terms of energy. The bet on renewable energies has been and is a winning bet and must continue to advance, for three key reasons: by climate change, which have not been suspended; by energy autonomy and sovereignty, which is important to guarantee; by companies and families, to have lower costs. This is precisely why climate action is a priority of the country and a priority in the cycle of Community funds. In this regard, a number of tenders were launched, in particular for the substantial loss of support for the decarbonisation of industry, the energy efficiency of buildings, the decarbonisation of transport and renewable energy. It is on this point, which concerns the future and which has already been discussed here today, in the short-term perspective, that he asked the Minister for a response to the results already achieved in the field of energy transition and support in the framework of the RPP for such a central area, which is to ensure the energy and climate transition of Portugal, which he has, in fact, led in the European context. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u170	Mr. Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u171	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed the wager in renewable energy that guarantees us the commitment to reducing emissions, which guarantees us cheaper electricity, that guarantees us more stable prices and that guarantees us much greater independence. Real energy independence depends only on the wagering in renewable energies in Portugal. With regard to the PRR, the support that has been launched is in the field of energy efficiency for buildings in situations of energy poverty. Notices are open to the Public Administration and now services buildings, such as tourism and trade, can and should compete. These applications are still open, we don't know how successful they are. With regard to renewable gases, total success. EUR 82 million was made available and EUR 200 million was requested. We therefore admit that the EUR 185 million that exist for renewable gases are already coming here, without, of course, knowing the merit of all the candidatures and without being able to tell you that they will all have merit. It is, in fact, here, by increasing projects at prices that have been twice world records of low price electricity production from solar source, by that which is the essential role that Portugal has to have, as a new Atlantic energy supply port for Europe, that we even want to reach the sea, that we even want to transform pilot projects into productive projects, from the pilot zone that exists in Viana do Castelo, and try to have at least three large offshore wind farms that can come to produce at 2 GW or 3 GW scale. If Europe needs another door to gas entry, it will certainly need, too, central Europe, of what Portugal can offer, making money with it, which is the production of electricity from renewable sources. In our country, the next major projects will be located-CL - necessarily in the sea. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u172	I shall therefore conclude this debate by congratulating the honourable Members. Members of the Government. We shall now turn to the third item on the agenda, which is the vote. Thus, first of all, paragraphs 34 and 35 of the Diárioda Assembleia do República, I Serie, 3 are under approval. the Legislative Session, XIV Legislation, concerning meetings of the Standing Commission held on 24 February and 3 March 2022. [[Pause.]] There are no objections, they are deemed to be approved. We must also vote on an opinion from the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, which will be read by Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u173	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Paulo Pisco ( PS ) to present a statement as a witness under Case No 1071 / 20.9SILSB — Court of Justice of the District of Lisbon — Court of Criminal Instruction of Lisbon — Judge 5.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u174	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, the agenda for the meeting of the Standing Committee of tomorrow, 16 March, at 3 p.m., has two points, the first of which is a debate, with the participation of the Minister of Internal Administration, on elections in the circle of Europe. The second point concerns votes. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you all a good afternoon and a good night...
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u175	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u176	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u177	Mr President, I just wanted to note that something is going on with the computer system and, therefore, I cannot register. In fact, it seems to me that this happens on several computers, at least on the PSD bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u178	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u179	Mr President, if I may, I would like to say that I cannot register either.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u180	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u181	Mr President, right now, if I may, I too cannot register.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u182	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u183	Mr President, I am sorry, but I don't think I've checked either... is that I see "zero" CDS records here, which is a sign that I can't record.
ParlaMint-PT_2022-03-15.u184	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work, so I will close the meeting. [[It was 17 hours and 51 minutes.]]
